ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on research results on COVID-19 in minks. I would like to welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, the Minister of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, as well as the spokesmen. Before I give the floor to Mr De Groot as the first speaker, I would like to say that you have the opportunity to do two interruptions in two or to ask four questions. You can, so one question, or two questions, but four tops. I now give the floor to Mr De Groot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. D66 finds keeping animals for their fur objectionable. It was also D66 Minister Brinkhorst in 2002 who first proposed to end mink farming. Today it's about the infections. If there is one lesson from the animal diseases that the Netherlands has had, swine fever, FMD and also bird flu, then it is that you first take the most far-reaching measure and then find out about the disease, as a precaution. Why didn't this happen? Why did it take five weeks to get rid of the businesses? And then, what else? D66 would prefer to close the mink farms today, especially the abandoned farms, but we also live in the rule of law and that has a consequence. If politics decides to clean up an industry, you can do so in two ways: either with a long transition period, or you will have to compensate for the damage. A long transitional period of 12 years has been chosen for mink holders. Given the market situation, you are not doing any greater fun at the moment by saying that they need to close now. Then they've had a long transition period and a bag of money. There is an accompanying regime, which is almost ready, a scrapping scheme, that sort of thing. Can the Minister include steps in this regulation, which pays to stop earlier, so that mink farmers are encouraged to stop as soon as possible? At the moment the market for fur is very bad. The side effect of this is that it seems to be worthwhile for a holder to be disposed of. Has the Minister perhaps set the reimbursement of expenses too high? Why doesn't the Minister set a 30% threshold in compensation, for example? For even a bulb grower who uses a financial concession in connection with corona has to bear 30% of the loss himself, not to mention an independent entrepreneur or an artist.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u3	I have a question for D66, because Mr De Groot just outlined that there would be two options. If the government decides that this sector can no longer survive in the Netherlands, there is either a transitional period or buyout. That's how we get each other. But now there's another situation. Now, the government, based on the Public Health Act, has taken a radical step in human freedoms, fundamental rights, but also entrepreneurial freedoms; gyms closed, restaurants closed. I was wondering why D66 doesn't refer to this exceptional situation because, in my opinion, compensation doesn't have to be in those two schedules that D66 was talking about anymore. In view of the importance of public health on the basis of which the cabinet enters into freedom of enterprise, there is also compensation, but not so generous, along the lines of the support packages made by the cabinet for other sectors as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u4	I'd say let's investigate this. I ask the cabinet to do so and to look very seriously at this. As far as I've been able to check, and I've been to several lawyers in the group, you'll have to pay for the damage somehow. If that is not the case, under the law you refer to, then it is certainly up to D66 to talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u5	I'm listening to D66 and I'm thinking, isn't D66 a little rigid right now? Suppose there's a way to stop the mink farms as soon as possible, then you should? It is unheard of that stables will be removed, but then filled with mink again. I don't think anyone wants that. You have to choose between: Are we gonna take care of that or aren't we gonna take care of it because it costs money? Because D66 thinks that there should be no extra penny to the mink holders, for example because they have already made a lot of money or because a transitional period has been agreed or whatever? Do you think D66 would rather have those stables filled again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u6	That's a real dilemma. That really is a real dilemma. We don't want that. But at your home, you only spend every euro once, I suppose. If we are going to do this and if we are going to do what GroenLinks says, then the flags will go up with all mink holders, while all entrepreneurs in the Netherlands have half the flags. Then you're going to take 200 to 250 million euros to 140 mink holders. Do you think that's justified? Do you think that's a responsible way of dealing with taxpayers' money? Can't we put that money much better in nature or in the cultural sector? Or is it en-and-and-and do you have a cash press at home?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u7	It was a question to you. Mrs. Bromet will be next.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u8	I'm saying it's a dilemma, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u9	It is a dilemma, and the dilemma is very great because Mr De Groot is not talking at all about the animals that are affected by it. Money is being weighed up and there is talk of mink farmers who would then be overpaid and it is said that the flags are going out. All this will be done, but at the same time these stables will soon be filled again and defenceless animals that are grown for fur are the victims of this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u10	That's where GroenLinks and D66 find each other. Absolutely. For it has not been for nothing D66 that has always, since 2002, proposed to stop mink farming, not only because of animal welfare, but also because, in our view, it is simply ethically irresponsible to keep mink. I stand by it: GroenLinks would do well to realise what the financial consequences are. Like D66, GroenLinks is also a party that upholds the rule of law. There are examples of where that came out very well, for example with Urgenda. Are you suddenly moving the rule of law aside?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u11	GroenLinks wants to solve problems. We have a major problem with mink farming in the Netherlands. For many years now we have been talking for far too long about the closure of mink farms. I will tell you in my contribution how long GroenLinks has been advocating this. It has been discussed for years and there is a wait until the end of these breeding operations. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, that may cost Community money. We think that every day an animal spends too long in such a loft is irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u12	I do not think we are standing here today to confess to each other that we are against mink breeding, because that is what we are. That applies to Mr De Groot and to GroenLinks. A transitional arrangement has been adopted. We are standing here because keeping mink at this time is a major health risk for the animals, but certainly for the people on the farms and for all of us. I note that Mr De Groot is not talking about this at all. Of course, that colors the follow-up that he finds, or which we believe should be taken. My question to him is this. When we look at the major health risks, knowing that there are millions of animals in cages now, the RIVM actually says "there can be a reservoir of virus in those stables" How does Mr De Groot weigh up his concerns and dilemmas about a transitional arrangement or a compensation scheme in relation to the health risks for all of us? Shouldn't that last one be the lead? Because that's why Mr. De Jonge is here. I hope he supports my plea, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u13	Absolutely, Mr. Chairman. That is also why D66 is very critical of the fact that infected farms were not immediately eliminated, because of the health and care of residents. Especially from those fireplaces around Boekel, where all kinds of people have been affected by the Q fever. So the need to put health on one, also in communication, shares D66. So also: to clear infected farms immediately. That's what we find each other in, because of public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u14	Yesterday we received a letter from the Minister that contamination was again found at four breeding plants. That's not surprising either. All these companies are pretty close together. In the interests of public health, would it not be much better to look much wider than Mr De Groot does, and to say that perhaps this is the time to stop mink breeding in the Netherlands and to ask the companies to stop? I understand very well that it is very far-reaching for some people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u15	I haven't gotten there yet. I made it clear that it is a dilemma. It is better to close today than tomorrow, but that trial also plays a role, and we must also be thrifty with taxpayers' money at the moment. Then we're gonna take 200 to 300 million to 140 mink holders. I think that is an incredible amount of money for a branch of sport that will be closed down in three years' time anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u16	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mr. Chairman. D66 considers that the broad concession cannot be explained to other entrepreneurs. I told you. Mink keepers do not contribute to the Animal Health Fund. That's some kind of savings pot, filled by the sector, to compensate for an animal disease. D66 considers it logical that mink farmers themselves should also make a financial contribution to that animal health fund as soon as possible. What's the Minister's position on this? Mr. Chairman. Then the slaughterhouses. Since the beginning of the crisis in mid-March, I have heard from slaughterhouses that the staff and even the inspectors did not comply adequately with the RIVM rules. I immediately passed those noises on to the Minister. What would have made more sense than asking the NVWA not only to ensure that food safety is applied, but also the rules of RIVM? What took you so long? And why do these signals about non-compliance by slaughterhouses continue to this day? I drew the Minister's attention to this again this week. The result was guessed. On May 24th, Vion's one large slaughterhouse was infected and a few days later, Van Rooi's other large was next. Then there was a good discussion between the Minister and the slaughterhouses, because the representatives of the slaughterhouses kept saying 'we stick to the rules'. The next day, the police had to find out that there were 18 vans full of staff on their way to Vion's slaughterhouse. It's a real shame. And even crazier: the employees of one company who should have been in quarantine went back to work at the other slaughterhouse a few days later. Mr. Chairman. That can't be! It is unacceptable that slaughterhouses should not comply with the rules. Therefore, a responsibility for a possible temporary breeding ban should lie with them. D66 does not want farmers to suffer when there is too little slaughter capacity and to ensure that the stables do not become too full. But D66 also doesn't want that to be on the government sign again. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u18	Let's talk about the breeding ban. The Party for Animals warned immediately at the beginning of the corona crisis. With these measures you could see that people should sit at home sick because of the directives. Then you know that both butchers and supervisors are going to fall out. Then you also know that this has an impact on the number of animals that can be slaughtered. So come up with breeding restrictions. At that time the Minister said 'I will consult with the sector'. The sector itself cried "shame, shame, shame," so the farmers themselves have done nothing. And now D66 says "we should not put this problem on the farmers' plate." Where is the responsibility of that sector itself, which has dismissed a call for restrictions on breeding as totally scandalous, and now says: 'For us, it is very sad when a pig slaughter is closed'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u19	It was the representatives of the pig sector themselves who said a few weeks ago 'if this continues, we will have overcrowded stables within two weeks'. For D66...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u20	Yeah, right now. But not at first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u21	At first. You were absolutely right that there should have been a discussion about this scenario from the outset. If one had started thinking about this in the middle of March... Government is forward-looking. One can also think of an import ban on cattle for slaughter, for example, at the expense of the slaughterhouses themselves. That way the speed of the tire could have been reduced a bit, because in the end you also want the employees to be able to work there safely. But I'm gonna have to take the bill back to the government for that, too. We must remember that it is slaughterhouses that do not comply with the rules. We must prevent farmers from getting hurt, because they have done nothing wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u22	You were in the middle of a rounding?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u23	Mr President, I will conclude. D66 is critical of the approach at both slaughterhouses and minks. You actually see one match: there's been too long waiting. We're still under investigation, and we're still waiting. As a result, there are companies where up to 90% of the mink population has been infected. We now know that this is a reservoir and that it is dangerous for public health. The same applies to slaughterhouses: signals have been ignored for too long. I am curious to hear what the cabinet has to say about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u24	Thank you, Mr. De Groot. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u25	Thank you, Mr President. When the corona crisis broke out in the Netherlands, the cabinet took far-reaching measures, with a profound restriction of freedoms. Fundamental rights got out of the way and there was interference in entrepreneurial freedom. Gyms had to shut down. Restaurants had to close. There was even intervention in a direct need of people's lives: the need for proximity and physical contact. Everyone was cooperating because you weren't just trying to protect your own health, but mostly because you didn't want to put vulnerable people in danger. We were all part of it. And then came the aviation, the slaughterhouses and the mink breeding. Suddenly, the cabinet wasn't so strict anymore. That is problematic, to start with, because you have asked people themselves to participate in far-reaching restrictions of freedom, including economic restrictions of freedom. And it is morally problematic, because now it seems that the cabinet itself is coming apart from what it has always told the Chamber, namely that public health is paramount. Mr. Chairman. First of all, the mink breeding. First of all, breeding animals for fur is a moral problem. The Netherlands has been saying that for 25 years. Animals in wire mesh keep cages and are forced to breed every year, to gas the pups after a month or six, seven, for their fur: we find that morally reprehensible in the Netherlands. It took far too long for that ban to come into effect. This transitional period is not in line with the moral views of the Netherlands. When the reports came out that there were mink farms infected, I saw incredibly many stunned reactions from people who said: do we do this in the Netherlands? Yes. That's what we do. When it was decided to dispose of the infected farms, as it is called, "the animals are killed prematurely," we had to look at how the Minister of LNV and the mink-fokker themselves actually felt. Gassing animals, what a disgrace! Yeah, like that doesn't happen standard, November and December, for fur. But only killing the animals now on infected farms is, of course, not enough for intervention in public health. That is what this debate is about today. The OMT has warned: a reservoir of animals that are containable for corona and can then transfer it back to humans, you must prevent at all times. The OMT has said that we do not believe that the hygiene measures on those mink farms provide sufficient guarantees. The cabinet should therefore now say because of public health: you do not breed with animals that we know are comprehensible for corona, that they can form a reservoir and that they can transfer it to humans. Because of public health, that must be the decision of the cabinet. Because that is the ground, the dilemma does not arise that D66 sketches here: either there is a big bag of money going to the mink breeders or we let them go on. Due to public health, the cabinet also shut down other sectors. They'll be compensated, but not completely. So it's about a compensation in line with what we also offer the gyms or the restaurant owners: not too much, a little bit. The cabinet also says: yes, companies will go bankrupt if they are not financially and economically sound. This applies to a number of mink breeders, who have had very good years, but apparently have not spared. The cabinet must then take the same position. There's no other way. We need to empty those cages. Those cages need to stay empty. Mr. Chairman. Then the slaughterhouses. The Party for Animals has warned from the beginning. The Minister of LNV said that the NVWA is there and when it sees that the directives are not being complied with, it withdraws and, on balance, the slaughter process stops. That didn't happen. That promise she made to the Chamber was not fulfilled. When things started to get out of hand, what you could have seen coming, after a little chat with the slaughterhouses, the cabinet threw the place over the fence at the security regions. What we see now is that there are security regions that do intervene well and security regions that say: 'Yes, but economic interests; surely the largest pig slaughter in the Netherlands cannot close'. On the basis of commercial tests at the slaughterhouse in Helmond............................................................................................................................................................ It can't be. The cabinet has to take back the direction. We need to lower the tire speed. That's what the unions are asking for. The safety of the people there must be guaranteed, and that means that the Minister of LNV must still introduce those breeding restrictions, which she has refused so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u26	I would like to sacrifice my interruption to congratulate my beloved colleague of the Party for Animals on her 44th birthday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u27	Yes, that's true!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u28	Above all, I wish her much love, because that makes life a little easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u29	Happy birthday!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u30	Thank you very much. Then I have a household announcement: I brought pastries, vegan and organic. They are behind, so anyone who thinks "with all those coronakilo's can still have a nice pastries," can go in the walkways.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u31	That's very sweet. Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr Geurts on behalf of the CDA. I thought Mrs Ouwehand was already standing behind the interrupting microphone for Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u32	Mr President, I was going to start with a positive attitude towards Mrs Ouwehand, but yes, Mr Graus has done a good job of doing that. But I agree with the congratulations. I hope that the pastries do not belong to the fatters, because that is not wise in my case. Mr. Chairman. The mink farmers, their families, their employees and their animals are victims of the corona crisis. With pain in our hearts, as CDA-Room members, we support the cabinet decision to dispose of contaminated mink farms in the interests of public health and animal health. Like no other, I understand the emotions that are released after my experience in 2001, when our company and that of many others were removed because of mouth-and-claw ulcer. What I don't understand, and what I don't understand, is that there are people who are currently threatening, harassing and harassing mink farmers and their families. What I don't understand is how the slaughter process is going. Last Thursday, a press release from the College of Occupation for Industry stated that the LNV Minister had not been able to submit a complete dossier and that the mink holders concerned had not yet been informed. According to the press release, the expulsions were therefore postponed. How could it go wrong like that? What happened here? How is the follow-up taken care of the mink keepers arranged, I ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The advice of the Outbreak Management Team-Zoönosen, OMT-Z, on the basis of which the cabinet decided to clear up, is largely clear. It states that mink can unwelcomely form a reservoir for the virus and thus constitute a persistent source for human infection and for the re-introducing of the virus from companies in the population. I also read that the infection in mink can be asymptomatic. In layman's language I think it says here: it's there, but you don't see it with the eye. This raises the question at the CDA as to how the Minister will shape the monitoring, which I believe should be continued, on the non-contaminated companies in the near future. Can the Minister indicate the conditions under which mink companies will be declared Corona-free again? Mr. Chairman. The OMT-Z indicates that it can imagine that an early cessation scheme for non-infected mink companies is a real option. In recent years, the CDA has repeatedly pointed out that mink owners are suffering personal suffering and have fallen into an antisocial death home structure and precarious situation. If they want to stop, they have faced all kinds of barriers. In a debate in February 2019, the Minister indicated, on my question, that he would be fully engaged in and to look at the functioning of the scrapping and conversion scheme. I read in the recent letter of Parliament that the cabinet is again examining whether and, if so, how a one-off stopper scheme can be put in place to allow mink companies to terminate their business on a voluntary basis in the short term. We now live in June 2020. What happened all this time, I ask the Minister. And very specific: when is there a decent stopper arrangement? On March 17th, I read a report about corona patient Marcel, a vet who then fought the corona virus. I was already wondering to what extent animals contribute to the spread. That is why I am surprised that the question to OMT-Z was not specifically asked, for example, about ferrets and public health. How about this, I'll ask the Minister. When will there be more clarity, in particular about cats, and the possibility of forming a reservoir? I would also like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the corona crisis is not over. Where people work together or live, there are still corona infections. Banning work in distribution centres, in greenhouses, on land, in orchards or in abattoirs is not, in my view, the solution. Also, the introduction of a breeding ban is not the right course. By setting that up, you're actually saying you don't have any confidence that corona outbreaks will come under control. A breeding ban will not have any effect for many months. It won't solve today's and tomorrow's problems. What can contribute is the warm clean-up of pig farming. I had questions about that, but I just saw a letter of office come in. I'm gonna have to read that. I had a lot of questions about the progress of this warm clean-up. But scanning that letter of function quickly, apparently it's in there. So I'm gonna skip that question. In my opinion, it is essential to make real progress on the housing of migrant workers. That is why I ask what the LNV Minister has done to ensure good housing for migrant workers. And how is she involved in the remuneration of seasonal work in agriculture and horticulture? In short, does the Minister for Agriculture intervene in this, or does she leave it all to the Ministry of Social Affairs? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u33	Thank you, Mr. Geurts. No, Mrs. Ouwehand doesn't interrupt; I saw you looking. I now give the floor to Mrs Bromet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u34	Mr. Chairman. First of all, about slaughterhouses, because last week a motion from GroenLinks was adopted with Parliamentary support in which we asked the government to ensure that companies, including slaughterhouses, comply with the corona measures and that no one is exposed to the virus. In fact, I would like to ask one of the directors how that is going. How is the cabinet going to carry out this motion? Is there a proper monitoring of whether there are companies that do not comply properly with the corona measures and, if so, will they be closed? Are there any examples of that? And then the mink. I had already suspected that everyone would bring up the long, long history of the ban on mink breeding. I ended up in the Chamber of Acts. I found a report that wasn't digitized. I'd like to read that to you. It's from a predecessor of mine, who wasn't with GroenLinks, because GroenLinks didn't even exist yet. It's from 1989 and it's a text by Ria Beckers. She writes, and that is really very topical: "Pulse animals naturally have a large territory and should absolutely not be kept in cages. Any form of animal husbandry is an infringement of freedom, normal behaviour, and hence of animal welfare. But the purpose, the production of fur, certainly does not justify the means. The Dutch consumer almost unanimously rejects the use of fur. Production only takes place for export. This dierron-friendly form of production must also be brought to an end for my group." She then tabled an amendment. It didn't make it. Then there will be a whole series of involvement of all the groups present here. Everyone will say he's the first, but I wonder if there's anyone who can go over this. It was in 1989. I was 19 at the time. I'm 50 now and it's really embarrassing that some things must take so long. Now there is a new crisis, a crisis that threatens human health, in which mink farms have infected people with a life-threatening virus. I read an interview earlier this year with a mink frog. That breeder was 22 years old and took over his father's business at a time when he already knew that there would be an end to the mink breeding. He's a little bragging in that interview. He says, "There's 2.2 million left in the bank. That's what my father invested in real estate in America. He's got 35 houses there. Many mink breeders have put all their money into mink, but fortunately we haven't." My question to the Minister is therefore about the financial position of the mink-holders. If we say that it must stop now and that these stables should not be filled again after they are removed, are they poor and are those stables filled again? I also have a piece from Farmhouse. It says, "Cleaning mink is the end of the business." The president of the LTO group Pelsdier Farming said: "If the mink farms are cleared, they will not be filled again." I don't know. I would very much like to hear from the Minister how likely it is that these mink lofts will be removed first and then refilled again in 2024. I'd like to know more about that. For GroenLinks there is absolutely no doubt about it: we want these minks cleaned up as soon as possible. Or killed, because they're killed. They're born to be killed. That's right. I'd say one more time and then forever over and out. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u35	Mrs Bromet describes that GroenLinks, like D66, is against mink farming. She also describes how a number of mink owners are already millionaires. We are in the midst of the corona crisis, in which countless entrepreneurs are affected, in which many artists are affected, in which the historic sailing from the Netherlands threatens to disappear, and you name it. There's no sector that doesn't get hit. Now GroenLinks proposes to buy out a sector that already has millionaires with even more millions of grants. I can't explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u36	I haven't proposed anything yet. I have put a question to the Minister. GroenLinks is in politics to change the world. I have just explained that we have been advocating the closure of fur farming since 1989. There are other parties that have just kept the fur breeders in their feet. Every day they close early, it's for us. There are a lot of things in which GroenLinks tends to focus on funding for goals that we don't really like. In front of us, the animal suffering comes first. We want an end to mink breeding. If that costs money, I want to know how much that is. Then we're gonna consider whether we're willing to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u37	In this crisis, in which everyone is affected, GroenLinks mink owners will therefore respond, regardless of the financial consequences. That's what I hear you say. I find that extremely remarkable. I would say: we live in the rule of law, and it's just that you have to compensate for damage. So I'm curious. Try to think through the consequences of your position.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u38	I'm trying to keep thinking. There are a lot of sectors that we are helping in this crisis, for example flower growers. They use a lot of poison and lots of water. That is what we Green Left think: that will have to end. Or the KLM, in a sector that we think should be put into it. It is also saved by this cabinet. Among other things, you are part of a coalition that can do all that. Sometimes you have to weigh your interests. That's what we do. We consider the importance of animal welfare against the importance of community money. I haven't made that choice yet. I'll wait and see what the Minister has to say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u39	But that's profit. So it is no longer the case that you say, unbiasedly: close tomorrow, regardless of the cost. So you're gonna take a good look at the costs first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u40	D66 puts everything in my mouth. I didn't say that at all. I have said that we may be paying Community money for this because we consider animal suffering to be extremely important. You don't have to tell me that I'm saying things I'm not saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u41	Then you are already a lot more nuanced than in your previous contribution. First, you act like it's all possible. For an opposition party that is possible: everyone free beer. But you must consider the consequences of your position.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u42	Everything is happening in Mr De Groot's head. I can't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u43	Thank you. Mrs Lodders has the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Many people are concerned about the development of the coronavirus. These concerns are reinforced now that it appears that man's virus has passed on to animals........................................................................................................................................................................................ On behalf of the VVD, I would like to support the decision of the cabinet to follow the OMT's opinion on zoonoses and to move on to the elimination of the infected holdings. This is inevitable with a transmission of the virus from animal to human. We have to deal with that seriously. Mr. Chairman. The removal of businesses was scheduled for Friday, but we had to learn from the media that Animal Rights and Bont for Animals objected to the disposal of animals. It is very undesirable that such action groups should be able to suspend compulsory slaughter due to public and animal health. We must not mess with human or animal health. My question is what the cabinet thinks of this. Does our regulations or does the law need to be amended so that these clubs, when it comes to health, do not get a stage at that time? Let me also draw attention to the announced actions to free mink. That too is unacceptable. I shouldn't think about what happens when potentially infected animals are released. I therefore ask the Cabinet to strongly distance itself from this. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has decided to investigate the presence of the coronavirus on all mink companies. I am glad that I was able to read in the last letter, which I think we received yesterday, that the screening of companies will be completed next week. I'll ask for confirmation from the cabinet. The Minister has made a notification obligation for all sick animals at mink farms. The other animals are subject to the possibility of transmitting signals to the NVWA. My group considers this to be too non-binding. We would also like to see a reporting obligation, albeit through the veterinarians and therefore not without obligation in humans, in all covid-like phenomena. There is still a great deal of uncertainty about the virus in animals. This was also confirmed by the experts during the technical briefing. Reporting should contribute to the timely conduct of research, including in the case of other animal diseases. I think it was Mr Geurts who mentioned a possible reservoir in cats. Is the Cabinet prepared to do so? Mr. Chairman. In one of the last letters, the Minister offered the opening to seduce mink owners to end mink farming. You know that the VVD has always been critical of the ban on mink farming. But now that the law has been passed and given current developments, it is wise to offer the mink owners a way out. It will have to be dealt with in a proper way. For mink farmers, their business is their job, their income, their pension and often their son or daughter participate in the company. If a government decrees that your company should stop, this includes a proper arrangement, so that you can give the company a different interpretation or look for another job. The VVD calls on the Minister to stop her energy in clearing the companies and in shaping a decent arrangement, so that empty stables do not have to be filled again. The same applies, of course, to the other mink companies. These agreements also include proper tax treatment and agreements with municipalities and provinces to prevent company buildings from being squandered or used for other undesirable developments. We've had enough experience with drug labs in the country. I think we should avoid that. In the case of a proper regulation, we can expect mink farmers to release the nitrogen content of the farms and not to introduce legal procedures. Mr. Chairman. Finally, on this point, I would like to say a few words to the mink keepers, because the mink keepers are having a hard time. The personal suffering that happens to these people, these families, is very intense. You need to quit your business. A number of companies have become infected. You are under a magnifying glass and then there are also actions of clubs against mink owners. I have drawn attention to the consequences here before. These people are having a hard time and some have crossed the line of what they can wear. So I call on the Cabinet to pay attention to this. Finally, I would like to say a few words about slaughterhouses. This subject has been added to this debate. I can be very clear about that. Slaughterhouses, as well as all other businesses, should provide a safe working environment for their staff and bodies that come on the floor. This also applies to the transport of employees to and from work. If it is not complied with, action will be taken, not only at the slaughterhouses, but everywhere. I trust the cabinet will support this line. A debate on this was held last week at the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment. Motions have been tabled. We also supported Mrs Bromet's motion. I would like to leave it at that. Unless the cabinet sees other developments in this respect, this is an invitation to respond. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u46	I have another question about the compensation for the mink farmers. Can the VVD confirm that the mink farmers did not contribute to the Animal Health Fund, and that they will now be compensated for the slaughter? My second question is this. That clearing is seen as very heavy, as something you should not take too lightly. We hear that from the cabinet, and we also see it with the mink owners themselves. But if you follow the government policy, and what that mink owner himself says about it, he says, "I'm just gonna fill up my stables again," at the risk of you getting infected again and having to be cleaned up again, isn't that going to be completely compatible? So you have to do everything you can to prevent excavation, because then people say "it's a heavy medicine, you shouldn't do that." And then they say, "I'm sorry, but if it happens again later, I'll see it again." And then tax money goes out of that Animal Health Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u47	I think what Mrs Ouwehand says is true is that it is paid from the Animal Health Fund. I think that's the line we've established with each other. There are a number of specific groups that do contribute to this. We like to refer to the poultry farmers, for example the avian flu. It also applies to other sectors. We haven't agreed on that in the past, so that's a fact. I don't know what the scheme looks like either. So perhaps the Minister will be able to comment on that later. The second point. I do not understand Mrs Ouwehand's question very well. She's talking about repopulating the stables. I have said that I prefer not to see that, and that is why I challenge the Minister and the Cabinet to work on the commitment, or at least the reason in the letter, that they want to get to work on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u48	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u49	Then the latter is a good start, which the VVD also says: rather not. But I think we should make sure that it doesn't happen. Is the VVD prepared to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u50	Depends on what the cabinet comes up with. I have indicated that I have very much to do with all those people who are really very worried. It will only be Mrs.Ouwehand's company, and that the government says "you can't run your business anymore." But it's your income, your family, the environment has a job there, it's your retirement provision, and you can't do that anymore. I didn't interrupt, but I thought Mrs Bromet's line was very much appreciated in that, to ask the cabinet first. Then we'll have to consider that with each other. I also prefer not to see the stables being repopulated, but I do want a decent settlement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u51	Thank you, Mrs Lodders. Mr Graus has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u52	Thank you, Madam President. I started at the very beginning of my political career about why we shouldn't keep minks, why a mink isn't suitable for animal husbandry. I also said that a mink is a solitary living water predator. I have not yet heard that from Mrs Bromet and her colleague. It's a water predator, and it's not only related to the ferret, it's also related to the otter. A water predator, which lives solitary, is not at all suitable for animal husbandry. So for every ethologist, every biologist, every animal friend, and even non-animal friends, that is true; they agree. But in addition, a mink is bred, and not grown, Mrs Bromet. You said "bred" during your interruption, but that happens with plants and flowers; minks are bred. You weren't grown either, I hope. It could be just like that. But for a stuffed cake I would like to give you a tutoring lesson; I always like to do that. But they're kept in wire mesh cages. And they are bred, whereas they are absolutely not suitable for animal husbandry, for a luxurious elitist, tertiary good like fur. That jacket belongs to those animals and not to us, and it should never be ours. But it is a luxury, elitist, tertiary good, for which there is also a good alternative: fake fur. Fake fur is much better quality than animal fur. It will also have to do with a certain karma, but fur is no better quality than fake fur. In my early years I visited several mink farms. I did this with or without Mr Verhagen. He is chairman of the association of pilgrims, but he is also a spokesman on behalf of the mink keepers. I have visited more mink farms only than with him, but with him I have also visited a few. I also visited a feed manufacturer who supplies feed to the mink. I found out people were always allowed to do this. In their sense, they also act to their honor and conscience. When this was happening at the time, before the initiative law came up, I asked the interrupting microphone whether we should not compensate those people. So this was a question from the PVV, even before the CDA did this. Later it became clear, also on the advice of the Land Attorney, that the mink keepers should have a longer phasing-out period until January 2024. Then the compensation would not be necessary, because in this way they will have more time and opportunity to transform their businesses. We agreed to that at the time. I believe that a majority of the House has also agreed to this; or my memory should fail me, but it is almost impossible. We do not want the farms affected by corona that need to stop earlier to be filled with animals anymore. This is really the right time to quit early. This also has to do with the ban on transport and other bans that are bound to happen. In addition, we are now not only here for the welfare of animals, but also for the danger to public health. This was just cited by one of my colleagues. I believe it was my colleague from Limburg, Mrs Ploumen. Mrs Ploumen, it is also about the health of other animals. The contagion of the homo sapiens on animalia and vice versa is not fresh. This is what happens when you keep animals in a perverse way. It'll break out all sorts of things. For those who believe in a god, who will punish God immediately. I would also like to say a few words about the slaughterhouses. For many years, all rulers have given me the opportunity to present whistleblowers, including NVWA'ers. I put in a whistleblower years ago. Back then, Harry Paul was the Inspector General. Unfortunately, the best man is no longer employed at NVWA. I was very pleased with him. The same whistleblower warned about infections within slaughterhouses a few months ago. I still have the e-mails from months ago. He was literally bullied away because he would be PVV-related, when that man would never vote for the PVV. He reported it to me because I'm a terrier. That man left the NVWA. He's the umpteenth victim of middle management under the minister. That is what we are going to debate. I find it outrageous. He was one of the best NVWA vets. He used to be one of the best vets for pets, horses and cows. He was a very beloved man. I would like that person, who has now been bullied away, to be able to talk to the Minister and the Inspector-General ad interim, because this cannot be done. Those harassments keep on going. Every time the whole room agrees it has to stop. The good people are being bullied away. I have the following question to all Christians in this Chamber: where is your respect for all that God has created when it comes to animals? Animalia got there before the homo sapiens. Whether you believe in the story of creation or evolution, animals were there before humans. We have to deal with that. Please go and show me this. Furthermore, I await the answer. The rest has already been asked and I have to finish. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u53	Mr Geurts has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u54	At the beginning of Mr Graus' speech he gave some knowledge to the Chamber and the Cabinet. I learned from that that the otters would also be in the same line as ferrets, minks and so on. This had escaped me in recent times. Does Mr Graus agree with me that we should properly position that question in the cabinet? I asked a question about the ferrets that were not included in the OMT-Z question. If what Mr Graus says is true, then we should also look at otters in the Netherlands. I read from the week that their population in the Netherlands is growing significantly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u55	I think that has something to do with it, but so is my own faith, you know. I think exactly the way you deal with animals, but also with people - the same goes for that, you know... But you can't keep putting and stuffing people on each other indefinitely, and the same goes for animals. There's gonna be trouble, there's gonna be riots, there's gonna be wars, there's gonna be diseases. That's my opinion. And that's just the way it is, because it's the way it is from the animal world over and over and over again. So it just turns out. I don't believe there are infected otters out there right now. You may know more about that than I do. But otters live in freedom for the time being, although I think freedom no longer exists in the Netherlands, because we are now one big state, town state; we no longer know nature. And all we can do is intervene. And that is the last thing I want to say, Madam President. For centuries the fox has been hunted. And now, while the fox eats goose eggs and grabs young goose and I know what's going on... That was nature. By hunting the fox for centuries we now have too many geese. And then they're gonna go after the geese again! Yeah, that's how you keep going. Man needs to learn to take a few steps back, to have respect, and to leave things alone. Leave cloudy water until it is clear or becomes clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u56	I asked a rather concrete question. If Mr Graus' wisdom is correct, and I do not doubt it at all, is it not wise to put that question to the cabinet? I also referred to the story I read about the corona-infected vet who fought against that virus. And so, in March, I thought, "Hey, aren't there any more animals that can be infected by humans?" But I can only do that through you now, asking the cabinet, because my first term is over. So is Mr Graus prepared to ask that question to the cabinet, whether those otters could possibly also form a reservoir in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u57	So through you a question to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u58	Yeah, I'd be happy to do that because I saw that question coming a long time ago. I'll ask the question the way I asked it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u59	We're listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u60	I already asked this Minister two years ago: stop importing people; also in slaughterhouses, which still have to invent the word 'animal welfare', who ignore all the rules we come up with here, and who sit on each other with twenty or ten men in a van, and because of that... And there was a whistleblower, who said months ago to his superiors at NVWA: boys, there are infections; and pay attention: there are instantly many doctors, and many slaughterhouse workers. That didn't end up with this minister. I've seen how they just banged that guy out to use a nice Limburgs word; stunned French, too...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u61	Yes, it's French.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u62	That's outrageous. And that's why I want this whistleblower, another one... I always bring them to the government, to the IG. It's outrageous what happens to those good people...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u63	You made that clear, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u64	Yes, but, Madam President, sometimes I don't sleep there...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u65	Well, that's not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u66	...because... We're yelling things here, and we're just not being taken seriously. And that's to destroy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u67	That's not always the case, Mr. Graus. You have put forward a number of good motions, and you have also supported them. So it's not like you can't do anything. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen, on behalf of the PvdA. Since when do you deal with mink, Mrs Ploumen? I'm surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u68	Yes, Chairman, that's very recent. And you're pretty damn sure that's what you're talking about when it comes to my contribution. For I think that colleagues have shown convincingly that it is not in the interests of animal welfare that minks are still being bred for fur in the Netherlands. And I really want to talk about the people. Because we're standing here because the world is in the grip of the corona virus. And we are standing here because the breeding of mink in the Netherlands entails risks to public health, major risks. Big risks to the people whose businesses they are and who live with their families on that company. Big risks to the people who work on those companies. Big risks to the neighbors, especially in Brabant. Those people have made themselves heard, too. And big risks to all of us. So I don't really have any questions for the Minister of Agriculture, but I have questions for the Minister of Social Affairs and for the Secretary of State for Social Affairs. A few weeks ago, a motion was adopted by Mrs Ouwehand asking for the power of perseverance of the VWS Minister in the prevention and control of infectious animal diseases. It is important that, in this crisis, public health prevails over commercial interests, whatever commercial interest. There are dilemmas, but it is precisely the VWS Minister who has the power of perseverance and is empowered to intervene. How does he appreciate the advice given by the OMT? How does he see the recent developments in which four more companies have become infected? Does he agree with the Labour Party that, in the interests of public health, not only companies where mink are now killed and removed should be refilled, but that mink breeding in the Netherlands is unacceptable in times of corona in the light of public health? I would like an answer from the US Secretary of State. I would also like to hear from him what measures he is going to take on this issue. Then I also have a question for the Secretary of State for Social Affairs. There are people working in these companies. Those people got infected, too. Sometimes it is unclear whether it is a matter of human infection on animals or on animals or on humans, but at least the people who work in those farms are at greater risk than I am, where I am now. And that's unacceptable. Has the Secretary of State considered using the inspection and having active controls carried out on those companies? If there are abuses there and it is not feasible to protect the workers in those companies, is that not an additional reason to put an end to mink breeding in the Netherlands, and immediately? I conclude from the OMT's opinion that I translate it into my own words, because let me not put anything in their mouths that they really do not consider it feasible for the safety regulations such as protective clothing to be properly followed by those mink companies. That's actually the conclusion I'm drawing from what I'm reading. Then what are the consequences of that, I ask the Secretary of State. Mr President, I will conclude. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, it is not the question at this time whether mink farms should stop by 2020, but how we are going to do so in a way that serves public health. I absolutely do not agree with that mink breeding, but I also come from a farming family, so I know how much it can do if something you've built is broken down. So with regard to public health, but also with regard to the people whose businesses they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u69	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I now give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The SP looks forward to the day that no minks are held in the Netherlands anymore. I will not interfere in the game of "who was first against mink farming?', But I would just like to mention here that it was my party's initiative law, together with the Labour Party, that brought the ban into effect in 2024. Now we should consider the Minister coming up with an arrangement to give him the opportunity to quit earlier. I am prepared to look at any regulation, but as far as I am concerned it is in the context of the ban that is coming and the market conditions, because we are talking about companies that are making structural losses and do not have a future anymore. Anyway, corona has changed the circumstances. Thirteen companies are now infected. So the incident stage is really over and that leads to a number of questions with the SP. But perhaps it makes sense to allow an interruption first, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u71	I have just heard Mr Futselaar talk about the economic conditions in mink farming. I have a very clear question about that. Wasn't it true that in the time that that legislation was adopted by the majority of the Chamber, I'm not going to win that contest at all who wants to get rid of mink farming fastest, I'm not even going to say that this challenge is that a ten-year transition period was chosen so that these mink farmers could end their business in a proper way financially? Now that that ten-year period has not become financially the same as the then initiators of that legislation, should you not, if you want to stop mink farming earlier than in three years' time, put a decent compensation against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u72	As far as I am concerned, market conditions are, in practice, mainly about market conditions in China, of course, also some of the business risks. If we had not been banned, the mink farms would also be in serious financial difficulties, simply because that market has collapsed. I don't think the government should take that risk, even if you say: we're giving you a longer period now before we go into the ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u73	Then we're at the point where we need to end up. It has always been promoted by the initiators that there was enough time, that there could be a proper way to say good-bye to their own companies. That has also been an argument for the court to uphold that legislation by saying that there is a time limit in which money can be earned. Does the SP not agree with me that there will have to be a decent remuneration for this, now that that has not happened and now there are parties who say that they are accelerating, still within those ten years, wanting to get rid of mink farming?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u74	No, the SP doesn't agree with that, because the government has many responsibilities, especially with regard to the SP, but the government is not responsible for anyone else taking your product. If that simply does not happen, as is the case at the moment in mink farming, then I do not think that government should say: then we will get into it. That applies to every product. If tomorrow's milk price drops massively, we're not going to fit in massively either. There is simply a market, and if you accept that, there are risks. If it had gone very well in mink farming, we wouldn't have said: "this is going very well, you know what, we're going to stop mink farming in 2019.' Unfortunately, that is the risk if you opt for a long transitional period. It can freeze and it can die.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u75	Last point, Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u76	Not for today, but in this debate. Mr Futselaar is making a bit of a fuss, and I understand that too, because this is getting a little difficult. There were agreements and prospects made by the initiators. A majority of the Chamber has taken over. An industry would be stopped and in those ten years there would be a earning capacity in it. That didn't happen. Then it must be taken into account if there is now a majority saying: we need to stop faster within those three years? It really is not about numbers, it is about the core decision. If you want to quit faster, you're gonna have to pay for it, right? At least I heard it coming in from the PvdA: we want to speed that up and there is a decent compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u77	Then let me be clear. If we now have an arrangement to stop earlier than 2024, then for a moment I am not talking about the companies where it is being disposed of, but sector-wide, if it is going to happen, I think it is logical that you give something of a compensation, because the rules of the game are being changed. I am just saying that I think it should be in the light of current circumstances, including the fact that the sector is structurally loss-making. That's what you have to take into account in that fee as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u78	In fact, Mr Futselaar has already answered the question I wanted to ask, but I will ask him anyway. If the SP has to choose between speeding up the mink farming, this year, all the mink farming, and putting some community money on the other hand, or re-stocking the mink breeding that is now being disposed of, what does the SP choose?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u79	Then I must make a distinction for the stables where they are now being removed, which for me is a category separate. I don't think mink should come back there. For that we have to deal with something, but then it is the government that says: now we are taking action. For me, that is a different category from the whole mink sector, including stables where there are no contaminations. If there's an arrangement for that, I'd be happy to look into it, but I'm going to be sitting on the pennies a lot. Then I am not prepared to say: we are still going to buy out a sector that we have already given a long-term period to earn it back. I will do everything I can to avoid sounding too much like Mr De Groot, but it depends on what the proposal looks like. I can't judge that yet. But I'm certainly not going to spend infinite money for the broad ban. If it is specifically about not wanting to fill the stables, we really need to make sure that they don't come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u80	So with the risk that the uncontaminated companies will break out of corona.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u81	There's no way to rule that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u82	Okay. I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u83	Where was I? The SP remains with a number of questions. The first is how we prevent stables which are now being disposed of from being filled after six months or a year. There is still a risk for the period up to 2024. There's no way to explain that, not even to neighbors. The second question is: why did the decision to clear up take so long? At the end of April it appeared that the minks were infected with corona. You could say that it would have been possible to intervene. On May 19th it appeared that the minks could also infect people. Even then, there could have been some serious intervention. But it was only last Friday that the decision was taken to clear up businesses. We don't understand why that hasn't happened before. As some mink owners have said, as far as we are concerned, we need to get rid of it. This was also discussed in Question Time a few weeks ago. Then the Minister said: "To know if there is a reservoir, I turned off that investigation. I need the results to have a reason to take other steps." That is interesting, because you would say, in the middle of the biggest pandemic that the Netherlands has known since the war, that an unexpected transition from people's disease to mink, which is unique in the world, or from mink back to people, which is also unique in the world, is in itself enough reason to intervene very badly. But the minister thought that investigation was necessary. That raises the question, and I would like to ask it explicitly, whether the Minister has not previously decided on the removal of animals, because in her opinion the Animal Law did not provide sufficient grounds for slaughter without doing additional research. If so, we must discuss whether the Animal Law should not be amended because it is not appropriate to deal with this kind of pandemic that affects public health. I would very much like to clarify this. If this is not the case, then I really do not understand the Minister's decision. Then there must be clarity as to why there has not been much earlier intervention in this situation. Finally, on the mink and the fee: how exactly is it determined and where exactly does it come from? Is that from the Animal Health Fund to which mink farmers themselves have not contributed and is that reasonable? Then the abattoirs. I am just saying as it is: after all the scandals and riots about the treatment of animals in slaughterhouses, we can now also debate the treatment of people in slaughterhouses. Let us be honest: the fact that workers, mostly migrant workers, are piled up in small rooms against usury rents and transported by shady desks for hours in vans to abattoirs in order to do heavy work there for a minimum fee was, of course, a disgrace to corona. It's only because of the virus that we're now forced to face that reality. I ask the Secretary of State whether, on the basis of research by the SZW inspection, she agrees with the SP that the working and living situation of many workers in the slaughter industry is undesirable in any case, regardless of the risk of corona. In Germany, where they know about, they are the situation there, which is similar, so tired that they have said: from 2021 onwards only work with a permanent contract at slaughterhouses. That's interesting. Is the Secretary of State prepared to follow this example for the Netherlands as well? Another question to the Minister of LNV. By the way, my clock stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u84	But I see you're eager to use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u85	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u86	But I think we should finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u87	I have two more questions. The first question I would like to put to the Minister of LNV. Why so many Vion locations anyway? Is that familiar? Is that because of the region? Is that because of the size of the company, or are we talking about a company that has broken the rules relatively often? Finally, a question on the action of the security regions. We notice that action in security regions seems to be dealt with differently. If a slaughter in Helmond is confronted with a corona outbreak, it closes, but if Corona breaks out in Boxtel, it stays open. There are two security regions there. Those two places are 20 miles apart. Now the Minister of Health is not about the security regions, but about corona. I would like to ask him whether he thinks it is desirable that there should be different practices in security regions and, if not, what he is going to do to prevent this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u88	Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u89	My colleague Futselaar mentioned that the Animal Law may not be right. Don't you think that the Animal Law is no good at all if the ritual torture of millions of animals is allowed by a Animal Law and can simply continue? That's not right, is it? Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u90	Yes, we also generally support the various initiatives to do something about this. So we can agree on that. In a broad sense, there are a lot of laws that I do not think are good enough. I would just like to emphasise specifically that I did not understand a particular decision taken by the Minister. I imagine this is due to a lack of law. If that's the case, I think we should amend that law. I don't think we should discuss the long list of other changes to the Animal Law that we want here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u91	I would like to admit that Mr Futselaar is always very modest. His colleague Krista van Velzen is still in my top 10 favorite MPs. Unfortunately, she is no longer here, but I am well aware that she is the only Member of Parliament who has ever welcomed me when I started here as a bridge peep in 2006. She was also the initiator. Later, the PvdA joined. But it was your own Krista van Velzen. If we're gonna pee now, it's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u92	I agree with Mr Graus that there is not enough praise from Krista van Velzen in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u93	Look. Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u94	Thank you, Mr President. The clearing of mink is far-reaching and an option that no one likes to choose. I would like to thank the Minister for her decisive action in this regard. The decision to clear is not an easy choice. But it is a necessary one if public health is to be endangered. This choice is also well substantiated by the investigations that are under way. It is too dangerous for mink farms to form a reservoir for the corona virus. A lawsuit threatened to unduly delay the clearances. Our group is relieved that the judge supports the Minister's decision and that the expulsions are now taking place. Because we find playing with public health really irresponsible. Our group is shocked that there are now 13 identified infected farms. Sometimes I wonder: is this still checkable? How can we prevent many more companies from becoming infected? For example, I read that the assignment is to keep farm cats in the yard, but how realistic is that? How big are the risks when it comes to cats? I see there's been an interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u95	Yeah, me too. Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u96	I hear Mrs Dik-Faber asking how we can prevent further contamination. The answer to this is, of course, quite easy to give, namely by closing down those farms and closing down the mink breeding now, in the light of the corona crisis. How does Mrs Dik-Faber view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u97	I would like to comment on this further in my contribution. In any case, I will propose that there should be a stop-per scheme whereby we call on companies that are infected and are now being disposed of to stop filling the stables. Companies that haven't been infected yet, we call for early termination of their business. But it will have to be dealt with in a decent, just and just way. That'll be my call later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u98	How does Mrs Dik-Faber look at Mr Futselaar's call for this arrangement to include the economic situation of these companies and the fact that the sector should stop in 2024 anyway? Is that what she's wearing? I may be a little ahead of her contribution, but perhaps she would like to say something about it in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u99	If Mrs Ploumen asks so kindly, I would certainly like to do so. I think this is a dilemma, because mink breeders have, in principle, been given the legal opportunity to have their businesses as they are doing until 2024. Now that's what the corona crisis has come through. Never washed a good crisis, I'd almost say. Can we now take advantage of this situation and introduce a stop-per scheme that seduces companies to stop earlier or at least stop their stables? A lot of things play with that. We did not vote in favour of legislation to stop by 2024. Not because we didn't want to, but because we didn't think the conditions were right. I think we should look at that again. Those conditions for a stopper regime should simply be in order. We don't have to over-compensation, but it has to be just. I do not have one-two-three answers to questions such as how big these amounts are and to what extent the market perspective and prices are also involved. I would very much like to give the cabinet the opportunity to reach a fair settlement in consultation with the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u100	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u101	Mr. Chairman. For mink owners, clearing their stables is a difficult and sometimes emotional process, but they, their families and employees run the first and most direct risk. It is therefore good to hear that mink holders support each other, but the impact goes beyond the clearance itself. The environment often reacts anxiously to the news and our group also get stories that children of mink owners are being avoided at school and that mink holders are being banned from social life, even if there are no health complaints. Let's make it clear that this isn't okay. In addition to these tensions there are tensions with animal activists. Efforts are being made to allow mink to escape, including from infected farms. It is unacceptable to allow animals to escape, but certainly not now in the context of public health. Does the Minister share the fear and can the Minister take additional measures to prevent this? Mr. Chairman. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, this is the time to stop mink farming in the Netherlands. In the interests of public health, it is not wise to rebuild the farms that have been destroyed. The ban prevents this at the moment, but the decline in the supply of pelts leads to hope for the rise in prices in the near future. Combine this with the debts due to compulsory investments in new cages, and many mink owners see no choice but to continue. Fair financial compensation is crucial to the success of the stopper scheme, so that mink owners can make a new start with another job or business. Does the Minister therefore wish to consult with the sector on a stopper regime? Mr. Chairman. The temporary closure of slaughterhouses is also a necessary decision. Working conditions in slaughterhouses have been very poor for years. We knew it, and actually it was already unacceptable at the time, but the corona crisis has also made that painfully clear and it leads to unacceptable consequences for the health of the employees. It is shocking that the sector promises to improve in a discussion with the Minister, and then again the next day to violate the agreements and the rules. Who is going to ensure that the measures are actually complied with and what are the consequences if this does not happen? Does the Inspection SZW have sufficient capacity to control all slaughterhouses? After all, that was the request. The differences between the security regions are considerable. At the same contagion rates, one company must close down and the other can continue. How does the Minister explain these differences? Why are we waiting for high levels of contamination? Can't preventive action be taken? Will there be a plan for lower tire speed, better housing of employees and better transport? A year and a half ago, my group asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a plan for housing migrant workers. Has that been followed up? She is not here at the moment, but perhaps this minister can reply on behalf of the cabinet. The slaughter capacity goes down at many abattoirs to give staff more space. This can certainly benefit animal welfare in addition to public health, provided that the rate of slaughter is reduced and the slaughter process is carried out more carefully. But we must also pay attention to animal welfare in the stables if animals are not slaughtered in time. How is this handled? Will the Minister consult with the sector to at least reduce imports of animals as well? Mr. Chairman. We are now in the midst of the corona crisis; a difficult time. Our group believes that we can come out of this corona crisis stronger and more sustainable and that we need to think about a world after this crisis. This also applies to the keeping of animals and the working conditions in the operation of slaughterhouses. Let us therefore work on a practice of slaughter which focuses on the dignity of humans and animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u102	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. Then we have come to the end of the first term of office. I'm looking at the Minister of Agriculture. A lot of questions are on your property. How many minutes do you think you'll need? Ten minutes? Then I'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u103	I give the Minister of Agriculture, Food Quality...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u104	Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u105	... Nature and Food Quality the word.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u106	Yeah, it's a mouthful. I understand that, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Ouwehand on her 44th year of life. I wish her a great deal of wisdom and happiness in this year. I'll be back for a nice vegan pastries in a minute, if there's any left. I can imagine that everyone has been greedy about that. Mr. Chairman. This is a special debate, particularly in the sense that the theme of mink farming has always led to a great deal of emotion. I haven't really experienced the history of the past, but I understand that everyone has mentioned the fact that a lot of parties and Cabinets have gone over it to ban mink farming. Part of the ban on mink farming was a long transitional period. It is also laid down in the law, so that mink owners have until 1 January 2024 to terminate their business. In fact, this discussion coincides with the fact that Corona has now been found in a number of companies, in a number of minks. On the one hand, this is about an industry that is going to stop at some point, and on the other hand, there are now questions about animal health and public health. That of course makes this a multi-layered debate; let me just mention it. I can tell, however, that people in the Chamber say very widely: look at the possibilities of stopping mink farming sooner. I can also see that this is said for different reasons. The justifications differ and the measure varies, but I can make a kind of general observation here, namely that there is a question for that. I shall come to that in a moment, also to answer specific questions put by Members. It is also a bit special that I begin this debate. That's what we agreed. We have been in the zoonosis structure for some time now. Mr De Jonge and I work closely together on this dossier; in fact, Mr De Jonge is the one who is now the main contractor in this dossier. But again, because there are so many layers in this discussion, I think it is also good to do the general things about the minks on my side. By the way, as I said during Question Time, the zoonosis structure had been introduced earlier than when the Chamber adopted the motion on the perseverance force. So it was not the case that we depended on it ourselves. We had already taken a number of steps at that point. Mr. Chairman. I come first to the timing of the slaughters, let me put it this way. Several Members have asked questions about this. In fact, it is asked why it took so long to complete. I'm gonna take you in the steps that have been taken. Animals died. Sometimes dead animals are viewed by experts. Same here. One of those experts wanted to know if there were any antibodies to covid in the animal. That's what turned out to be the case. That was the time for us to screen exactly what was going on on these companies: what does this mean? I informed you when covid was established on a mink farm. We immediately took the measures to ensure that the covid remained on that company and could not be distributed. We also measured whether it was airborne, because that was very important. The moment it is distributed by air, it is more difficult to keep the company. That didn't turn out to be the case. It turned out to be real in the stable. Technically, you can say that you can also treat it there and then have it extinct as long as it stays there. That was also the adoption on the basis of the articles that see on veterinary grounds. Then we saw, partly thanks to the very good work of all kinds of virologists who have looked at this, that it could also pass from animal to human. At that time, we immediately took all the measures necessary to ensure that people could not be infected by mink. We can infect each other, and we also know that mink infects people. We know that a number of precautions must be taken to prevent the virus from spreading, just as we do in humans. Mr Futselaar asks what is ultimately the reason for the removal. In particular, this was the question of whether the virus could continue to be present on the holding for longer, allowing the company to form a reservoir for covid. If the presence of covid decreases in the company's surroundings, the infections on the company become more dangerous, because then you are more likely to get infections of mink on humans than people infecting each other. I needed the opinion of the experts to know if there was such a reservoir formation. That is why I asked the OMT opinion. On the basis of the OMT opinion, we have made the decision. The OMT met on Wednesday morning and the conclusions were drawn there on Wednesday. When it appeared that the reservoir formation was there or that it could occur and that that would be a reason for clearing up, we immediately made the decision on Wednesday, not Friday. It was developed later, but that had other reasons. Mr Futselaar's question as to whether the law is based not on the Animal Law, but on the GWWD there is room to clear up, the answer is therefore yes. Yeah, it always gives room to clear. Spacing is the most far-reaching measure. You can't go back; you can't undo that. That is why you need to be able to justify why this clearance is needed at the time and whether you have less far-reaching measures that can prevent it from being missed. There are more animal diseases. There are also animal diseases where we do not clean up, because those animal diseases can just make the animals better. So it's not like you're going over that right away. It is important to consider whether there are less far-reaching measures to prevent this. This was initially the case with all the measures we took. But the reservoir formation is a matter that goes on. Of these, the experts said that this opportunity is taking place. That was the reason why we then carried on with the removal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u107	That makes it clearer. It also raises a new, more fundamental question. The Minister actually says that the investigation has proven and substantiated that there was a reservoir, and so I explain to him that there was an active danger to public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u108	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u109	One could only argue that a suspicion that there might be a great danger to public health is perhaps enough here to make the decision to clear up. The minister has chosen to make sure that she wanted to be able to put it on the table. I do not know whether it is purely because it is a very heavy instrument or possibly also to be able to stand before the courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u110	Sure, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u111	But I certainly find it quite logical in the case of a disease like this, with such social consequences, to say, for example, that we have here, legitimized by research, a serious suspicion, and we are already choosing to do so, before we have gathered all the evidence, just in view of the intensity of the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u112	In addition, it will always be tested whether you have other, less far-reaching possibilities to contain this. When it comes to the question of whether you can clear up everything preventively, you will always have to justify to the courts whether there are other means or possibilities to ensure that it does not spread. In this case, there were. That is also what the OMT says: if you take the protection measures properly, you can minimise that opportunity, just as we have it with each other. Those are matters that were taken into account, including by a judge, to see if we should proceed with this far-reaching measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u113	If the judge could make that assessment or be a risk, it strengthens me in the idea that we may also have our own legal capacity to ensure that a ruler has more room to take preventive action. Soon we'll have another corona epidemic going on rabbits or something like that; then we'll have the same situation again and then maybe we'll have to wait a few weeks for research results. Those weeks can be pretty crucial. So I'm just really wondering if the toolbox we have is sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u114	The possibilities for clearing up are there. That's just what the law says. This is also one of the arguments and we have case law. In this, a judge will, of course, consider everything, including the question of whether there are less far-reaching options. I think he always will. I'm not gonna sit on the judge's chair. That's what I'm trying to avoid, but that's what you need to be strong about. When it turned out that there could be reservoir formation, you really had a justification that you can say is sufficient to proceed to clearance. That turned out to be the same thing in the judge's office last Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u115	That is clear, but I do not rule out the fact that my group will come forward with initiatives in this area in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u116	Okay. I believe that I have already answered a number of questions from other Members about the period preceding that and why we are doing this in this way. There was also a question about the compensation for the removals and how it is determined. For this we have a defined procedure, which is also laid down in the GWWD. That is precisely Article 86, which states that the Minister of LNV is obliged to pay compensation to the farmer in the event of slaughter. It's in the law. The concession is a decision of the Minister and the RVO has been mandated to take that decision by the Minister. The value of the animals shall be determined before the slaughter takes place. That's in Article 87 of the GWWD. Determination of value is a determination of facts and therefore not a decision. The Minister therefore has no influence on that. The valuation shall be carried out by an sworn expert appointed by the Minister; Article 88 of the GWWD. The experts we involve are experts from the University of Wageningen's WecR. We ask them to establish that value. They have done the same in this case. The value table has no formal status in itself. The table is not mentioned in the law. For us, this is a means by which the valuer can determine the value on the company. That's what happens. With the value table, the valuation is then done by a valuer. It determines what is present on the company and what its value is. That will be established. This ensures that the legal and also the European legal requirement that the concession is based on market value and that equal cases are treated equally, so that there is no arbitrariness. On these grounds, the valuation of the companies was carried out. That's not unique. In all cases where an animal disease is disposed of, we do so in the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u117	The market value is now very low. Then how do you explain that there will be a substantial fee after all? My second question is whether the law offers opportunities to pay less than the valuation value, or to ask for the mink owner's own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u118	The law does not allow me to ask for my own contribution from the mink owners. I just mentioned the article of the law. It states that the Minister of LNV is obliged to pay compensation for the damage by a decision to dispose of it. That's Article 86. There is no mention of its own contribution to this. The market value has been determined by WECR in an independent manner. They are the independent experts who have to do so by law. WECR gives that independence meaning. The experts looked at the last market price paid at auction. That was the basis on which they established the amounts. So these are also the amounts that are being worked on. The valuation is therefore carried out by an sworn expert. It is therefore not the case that the Minister has an influence on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u119	This is a new one for me anyway. I read in the law that it's about market value and I also thought I'd read something about day value. The Minister here mentions the value at the auction. That is the value of the skin of mature puppies that have been gassed and skinned. However, we know from mink farming that they currently get €20 per sheet and have €21 in costs to make a puppy fully mature. Does this mean getting cleared is lucrative?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u120	At present, the last market value paid is below cost. It's a bit technical, Mr. Chairman, but with the pups, of course, the question is what time you clean them up. The older they are, the more they're worth. This is taken into account in the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u121	Perhaps it would be good if we could get what has been established on paper and what the compensation is. Maybe I missed it, but I haven't seen it yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u122	No, we don't normally send that because it's an objective determination. But I am fine with sending that information to the Chamber so that the Chamber can also see which values table has been set independently. I didn't have any influence on that. I would like to emphasise that once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u123	Thank you to the Minister for this explanation and the additional information she will send. I have another question. These times of corona require different measures than when we could live our lives again. This applies to the measures taken by your colleague, Mr Koolmees, and even Hoekstra, for the first time in deep pockets. The question is, of course, whether this is the only legal basis you have, given the corona crisis, to determine compensation, compensation and compensation. Or, given the crisis, go ahead with other laws?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u124	Mrs Ploumen now asks me if there are any other laws, which I do not know, that could possibly go ahead. This is the law that always regulates how we do the clearances, just in all cases. So we are not making any distinction now as to whether it is a covid-based disease or whether it is a disease caused by swine fever or avian influenza. It's an animal disease. We also later identified him as a disease in which it is important to dispose of in the context of public health. That is the framework that we have. Mrs Ploumen asks if other laws prevail. I don't know them. If I say they're not there, it's absolutely absolute, but I don't know them right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u125	I am asking this because, of course, for other sectors that have been affected by the corona crisis, separate arrangements have been put in place in the context of the crisis. If this were to apply, for example, to catering and tourism, it would be obvious that this would also apply to mink farming in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u126	I would like to point out very specifically that mink farming has not been stopped because of covid or something like that. An animal disease has been detected here. This animal disease is the basis for the decisions we have taken, together with Article c, in which public health also plays a role. That is why we have carried out our clearance. That is the legal basis on which we could take that measure. Otherwise, we certainly couldn't go ahead and get rid of it. Of course, that's why you're doing the excavation. Then these are the legal frameworks that we use in this respect. The mink farming has therefore not stopped because of the general covid story. She stopped because there's an animal disease. That was the reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u127	So this is the crucial point. This debate seems to be about how to compensate. I would like to ask the cabinet to look at all the restrictions it has imposed on society. The cabinet itself has no grounds to say to people: you cannot embrace your mother. You don't have any ground for that. The cabinet did it anyway. On the basis of the same preventive attitude that the cabinet claims to have with regard to protecting public health, given the outbreak of corona, you should also look at the mink breeders in that way. Then I think that the compensation that goes with it is in line with the compensation that you offer other sectors. You're offering something, but not the whole turnover. So I don't understand why the cabinet at the mink's says it only has that land because it's an animal disease. No, there have been all kinds of other measures that have not been justified either. In this context, we must also see the intervention in the mink farms.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u128	The other reasons for the measures are there. Mr De Jonge knows more about this. He'll be able to say more about that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u129	Well, that's been discussed extensively a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u130	The legal basis and the way in which it can be better secured has already been discussed in detail in this Chamber. But there is a ground for that. It's not like that's just happening out of the blue. Here is the justification for the fact that there is an animal disease that can also have an impact on public health. There is a legal framework for this, namely the GWWD. The articles I was just talking about contain the basic principles on which you base the clearance and the compensation for it, and they have ended here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u131	I should have been more nuanced. It is a very exceptional ground, which the cabinet has found, for the far-reaching restriction of our freedoms. My question is this. Limiting the freedom of people to embrace each other, restricting the freedom of entrepreneurs, in the hospitality industry, in the gym industry, restricting fundamental rights: this has all been grounded. That is quite exceptional, but we have supported it as a Chamber. But if that is possible, why is it not used to limit the public health risk of mink farming in this way too? Once again, then you will automatically arrive at the compensation arrangements that we will find for these sectors, but that is not the top prize. That is what I would like to agree with the cabinet: that we are going to do it on these grounds. Of course there is some compensation, but not the top prize for the mink breeders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u132	That land exists. We have that land, it's in the GWWD, and that's how we always use it. The fact that there is now an animal disease that has to do with covid is not in itself a reason to look for another soil now. It is an animal disease and based on the GWWD we have the rules for that. We're done with that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u133	But by playing it this way, the Minister of LNV opens the door to maximum compensation for the mink breeders. That is very unfortunate, because there is no majority for that in this Chamber, I have noticed. This means that these mink breeders can go on, while this presents a risk to public health. So my question is once again for the Minister of LNV and the Minister of VWS, who is going to have to opt as well: why has there been no search for land for mink breeding, on which all the other measures are based, i.e. the Public Health Act and the Safety Regions Act? On this basis, the cabinet can place significant restrictions on the freedom of people in the Netherlands. We thought that was justified. It is not justified to look for other soil for mink breeders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u134	It is the third time Mrs Ouwehand has asked the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u135	Yeah, and I'm gonna answer the same question. That foundation is already in the law, and I applied it. Then you must say: you must disable the GWWD here. I have to abide by the law, I have to apply it, and I have done so here. That's no different than we do it in other cases. And then we have to distinguish between species of animal diseases, in which regime you are going to apply. It is not for me to give that weighting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u136	I understand that the Minister, when it comes to the current expulsions, is bound by the laws we have passed for that purpose. Then it's about the clearance. But the discussion in this Chamber is also about the further emptying of the decommissioned companies. The discussion is also about reducing further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u137	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u138	That's what the Minister's gonna come up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u139	But the question is: can there be another legal basis for this, so that we are not going to pay the top price for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u140	May I come back to that later, Mr. Chairman? Because I am still working on the block of clearances and the fees that are paid for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u141	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u142	Mr De Groot (PPE). - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr De Groot for his excellent report. The answer is no. The mink sector has not contributed to the Animal Health Fund, as so far there have been no diseases in the mink sector, for which the government had to incur costs. Nor do I have any power at this time to impose this tax for the time being. The cost of the clearance is paid out of the DGF, and then the part that the government contributes to the DGF. The DGF is filled by sectors and the government. We pay this from the government. It is therefore not possible to impose a tax on what has happened in advance. There was the question of whether I would be prepared to see if the sector could continue to pay to the DGF later. I'm willing to do that. I'd like to investigate that myself. I have to put all this together very carefully, to see how that works and how it works and how we could shape it. I also want that to be legally sustainable, but I understand that request. I also want to see how the mink sector could contribute to the DGF for the next few years, if that is legally possible and sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u143	I thank the Minister for this commitment. You're talking about next years. So that's from 2021. Does the Minister also see an opportunity to bring it up as soon as possible, because the problem is now, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u144	Yeah, but I still have to establish the ground for that first. The excavations are now taking place. For everything that is now cleared, I have no ground for it and I cannot do this. But I'm willing to investigate this properly. You'll have to draw up an AMvB for that, too. Here's the next point. The transitional period shall take account of the ten-year period. In his ruling on why it was justified to proceed to a restraining order for mink and to stop mink breeding, the judge put a great deal of emphasis on fair balance. I need to make sure that this fits within the existing legal frameworks. So I want to look into this very carefully. Mr Geurts asked about the legal procedure in the CSF. He asked how things could go so wrong. Allow me to outline the timeline properly. On 3 June 2020, Mr De Jonge and I decided that all mink should be disposed of on infected farms. This was communicated to the Chamber on the same day. This was on a Wednesday. On 3 June all holders, whom we knew at the time that they had been infected, were also informed by telephone. This was before you got the letter, by the way. I thought it would be nice to inform those people first, before a letter would be here in the Chamber. I thought this was justified, given the circumstances. On 4 June, the NVWA issued a clearance decision for each individual holder, which was sent to the holders at the end of the afternoon. So what was communicated to them by telephone, they also received from us at the end of the afternoon. In the morning of 4 June, the NVWA was contacted by the CBb with a notice that an application for interim relief was made by the Animal Rights Foundation and the Bont voor Dieren Foundation. The NVWA subsequently sent a case file to the CBb per mink holder. This dossier consisted of the decision to declare infection, the opinion of the OMT and the letter of 3 June 2020. Those clearance decisions were e-mailed to CBb on the evening of 4 June, leaving the CBb with a complete case file for each holder on the evening of 4 June 2020. That's how it happened. I cannot go along with what others say, but this is the order we have followed. Then Mr Geurts asks how the aftercare for the mink holders is arranged. Spacing is always far-reaching, under any circumstances. The NVWA is in close contact with the relevant entrepreneurs about the clearances. When they need support or care, the NVWA advises them. The sector has also been well talked about what is needed to manage this. It has also been agreed that the NVWA will make contact with the GGD, if it turns out that attention is needed for the mink keeper or his environment, so that we find this quickly. Mrs Bromet asked about the financial position of the mink holders. She quoted it from an article of 25 January 2019, in which a mink keeper does his story. At present, I do not have reliable information on the financial situation of the fur farmers as a whole or of individual companies. We do know that fur prices have fallen since 2014. In recent years, even structural losses have been made. But this does not mean, of course, that the financial position per individual holder is bad. This can really be different due to circumstances. I don't have a company view of what's going on here. Mrs. Lodders asks if I can distance myself from releasing mink. In the media there have been signals that actions might be carried out to release mink. This has not happened now, but it is of course not good in all cases if those companies are entered by people who are not competent to do so. Especially if they'd like to move on to releasing mink that's infected. That is also the reason why I have been asked why we asked the CBb, which later made a statement, to do so before the weekend, so that the chance of this kind of thing could be avoided if that were to happen. Of course, it was up to the CBb to decide whether they would go along with it. But they did, and I'm grateful to them for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u145	Thank you to the Minister for the answer. I also asked a question about the fact that a provision has been requested at all, i.e. the suspension of clearance. Is the minister still going to come to that, or is that another minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u146	Yes, the division comes close... It's for Minister De Jonge. Let's see... Then there was one more question from Mr Geurts: how is the continuous monitoring of mink companies being designed? There's continuous monitoring now. Mink farms are obliged to send in carcasses of naturally dead animals every week. And all the mink companies have been serologically screened. The whole result of the screening.............................................................................................................................................................................................. Based on the results of the two instruments, monitoring will be reviewed over the coming months. We also involve experts and researchers. So we're just gonna wait for the results, and then we're gonna go back to the next step that we have to take. That was clearing the block and monitoring, Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get right to the stopper arrangement, because I think there's...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u147	Before you continue, Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u148	Perhaps a short question after all, Mr President. I understand that blood tests have also been carried out on the companies, and that it has taken quite a long time for the results to be known, if they were or have been known at all. So I don't know if the Minister can say anything about it when that result is expected. I understand it's taking a little longer because the tests weren't actually available. Well, I understand, because it's all new, too, but can the minister say anything about the blood results?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u149	That's the serological test. So we have the, what we call, early warning. That's what it sounds like to send in the dead animals in plastic form, looking at whether antibodies are present in them. If we see that, then that's the reason to go to the companies to do a real whole screening there. That's what the NVWA does, and then it follows the normal procedure. In addition, the serological examination was carried out at all companies. That's where we all had to get the tests in order. Those results come in at the end of the week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u150	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u151	Then I go straight to the stopper arrangement, because many questions have been asked about it. The Cabinet has indicated in the penultimate letter of the Chamber that we are investigating whether, and if so how, a one-off stopper scheme can be put in place with which mink companies can voluntarily terminate their operations in the short term. A lot of questions have been asked about this, such as: "What does this arrangement look like?'; "Is that gonna happen?'; and "What is the scope of that arrangement?'. All very legitimate questions. All questions that also need an answer, but for which I need just as much time to see if, and if so how, we can then shape that arrangement. For here in the Chamber I should also like to see whether we can use this moment to end these mink farms again, each from its own weighting and motive. It is not that I can now decide, on the basis of the current legal frameworks, that a company should no longer be set up. This has to do with the fact that the judge had to stop the mink-farming in his weighting, and also indicated that that long transitional period was a condition for being able to comply with it. Otherwise compensation would have to be paid, and at that time neither Chambers chose to do so; the long transitional periods were chosen. If I say 'but we are going to do it now', I will end up in the same discussion, I think, as the discussion that has already been before the courts: whether it is justified to make this choice now and to say that it is no longer possible. So it means that you have a significant chance that these companies will want to stop themselves. It is true that there are also mink owners who say: maybe it has been good now. That does not apply to everyone, however. There are also mink holders who say: why should I stop now because I can go through until 2024? That is right, that is the law and that is the framework within which it must take place. That is why we, as a cabinet, are examining whether and, if so, how to design such a scheme and how to give an additional incentive not to restart the companies. That is quite a listener, so allow me to return to your Chamber later, because everything I say about it has not yet been worked out well enough to indicate exactly how that could be done, but we are looking at it seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u152	What I'm about to say sounds unkind, but I hope the Minister will consider this to be very functional with me. Here's what I'd like to ask her. Is it not true that the decision-making power is not with the Minister of LNV, but with the Minister of VWS, because it has power in terms of the importance of public health? In any case, I believe that in the context of public health, the corona crisis we are dealing with and the reservoir of virus that may accumulate in mink farms, we have found ourselves in a different reality. In that reality, the VWS minister should be the appropriate person to say that this cannot continue. Then my point is that the arguments put forward by the Minister of LNV now fall under the scheme when we had a normal life, because we no longer have the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u153	Perhaps Mr De Jonge himself will have to answer the question of how he sees his authority in this, but if this road were already passable, I would say this with a great deal of success to the poor, then you have to give it a very good basis when you say: this is a ground for stopping by 2024. That's not easy. At the moment, just the law is in force that says that until 1 January 2024 those mink owners may continue. That is why we look in its entirety at what it takes to get those mink holders to stop earlier. Then you've got multiple resources that go with it. On the one hand, that is to see whether they will not be able to pay to the DGF later, in the sense that they will then be able to consider: what is the risk if there will be another slaughter and will it not be a risky and expensive thing? That is not why we are considering whether we want to do so in the framework of the DGF, but it may also be possible to take into account their considerations. There is already a scrapping and conversion scheme. I'll come to your room this week to hang it out. We have the legal prohibition. We are seriously considering whether and, if so, how such a stopper arrangement can be designed. If you've stopped, which was already in the law that was passed, then there should also be a demolition and conversion fee. That is for the moment when they want to develop other activities or that they are going to demolish the stable because they no longer need them. That is not, therefore, a question of whether a stopper system should be introduced. You don't have to do demolition and conversion, you can do that, but I had to make that arrangement on the basis of the law, and I'll be hanging out with your Chamber this week, too, so you can already know about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u154	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u155	By the way, when we look at such a stopper rail system, we also take into account, of course, the fact that funds have already been paid for the clearance of businesses. So that is also what we consider when shaping that arrangement, so that it is not thought that clearing and stopping can all be added together. So that is clearly something we will take into consideration. Mr Geurts had asked the question when he could expect something. I need some time to shape this, but as soon as I can say more about it, I will come back to your Chamber. Then Mrs Ploumen, like Mr Geurts, asks what the chances are that these pens will be filled again after the slaughter. For your image, mink farming has an annual cycle. In October, November, there will be pebbles, and then in December is about the time when one decides whether to start a stable again. For the farms which are now being disposed of, they must clean up and disinfect. There must also be time in between to really make sure that there isn't another virus on the company after all. That takes about three months. In addition, national measures are currently in force to prevent mink farms from infecting each other, including a ban on the transport of mink. So the moment a stable is empty, it can't be filled now, because you can't transport mink. Therefore, as long as this ban on transport remains in force, no new mink can be landed and therefore no new business can be restarted. Those measures remain in force as long as there is a threat that mink farms could infect each other. That's for the now. Again, we are also looking at whether, and if so, how a stopper arrangement could offer relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u156	The transport ban will therefore continue to apply as long as the corona virus is around. Now it is expected that this will also be a risk this autumn and in winter. Does the Minister expect that ban could last another year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u157	The measure remains in force as long as there is a threat that mink farms could infect each other. There are several reasons for how long that should be. I can't anticipate what's gonna happen in winter. I don't know. I note, however, that this threat is now present and that we are now continuing to enforce the ban on transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u158	If I have understood the law correctly, the Minister may, without consulting the Chamber, decide to abolish that transport ban. Can the Commission assure us that it will not at least do so without first consulting the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u159	I am always competent to impose a ban on transport and also to scale down a ban on transport. Your room always has the opportunity to find something like that. I will inform your Chamber of what decision I shall take, but it is then up to your Chamber to decide how to deal with it. I have this authority, and I'm using it. Mrs Dik-Faber asks: is the stopper scheme a fair compensation? I'm working on it. Give me also time to take a closer look at what is needed for an arrangement that will ensure that companies also advance a decision to stop. I think this is an important objective, which I try to pursue. Then there's the question about the cats. Both Mr Geurts and Mr De Groot are asking about wild cats, which Mrs Dik-Faber also mentioned. When the first contamination of mink became known, researchers were also asked to carry out research on the farms in order to find out more about the course of the infection on the farm. At that time it was already known that cats could also transmit the virus to each other. So that's what the cats are involved in. The role of cats in the distribution has not been further demonstrated in those studies. The OMT-Z concluded that the feral cats on the farms do not pose a risk to domestic cats in the environment and to public health. We have decided that we will continue to feed the wild cats that belong to the company for a while, so that they do not stroll everywhere. Because those animals are there because there is food on those farms. When a farm is disposed of, the feed is usually gone and then it may be that these animals still go elsewhere. To be certain, we have said that we will continue to implement for a while, so that the animals stay there too. That way we have an additional guarantee built in. Then there is Mr Geurts' question when there will be more clarity about cats in particular and the possibility of forming a reservoir. The study on cats and dogs, both of them, and COVID 19 patients has recently started. We're looking at COVID 19 patients and their pets. The research consists of several parts. This means that one component produces results faster than the other, but we are still working for a few months. In doing so, I hope to clarify the expectations. A preliminary answer to the question of whether cats can form a reservoir is expected in a few months at the earliest. Then there is Mrs Lodder's question as to whether I am prepared to introduce a reporting obligation for all animals in veterinarians. The mink keepers and veterinarians are legally obliged to report the characteristics of covid to the NVWA. A general reporting obligation of non-specific airway complaints will give so many reports that it is not possible to look very closely at what is going on. You get so many reports that it's gonna be very difficult to judge that properly. For this reason, it has been chosen to make the reporting obligation specific to the mink, as it is known that it carries the risk of being infected. However, we have asked the veterinarians to report this in other animals, so wider, although that is not defined, they also have that to report. That's what's gonna happen. The veterinarians are keeping to that, but to set up an overall reporting obligation for the animals now goes too far for me, because then any respiratory disease could be a reason to report it. Then you get so many reports that it's gonna be hard to get a good look at what's going on. In practice, it works well and I see no reason to change it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u160	What I also mentioned in my speech: we still don't know a lot about the virus. That's not a qualification, because that's the way it is. The virus's only been around for a few months, but we're getting more and more information about it. I remain of the opinion, but perhaps I should also ask the Minister of Health that veterinarians are now free to report it or not when it comes to other animals. In this sense, there is a voluntary nature. That distinction has really been made very emphatically in the letter. It's an obligation for veterinarians and mink farmers, but you can report it when it comes to other animals and we'll see. I find that really worrying, so I would like to say once again that I believe that at the moment that veterinarians detect real covid-like phenomena in other animals, pet animals or other productive animals, there must be a reporting obligation so that we can start the investigation earlier. I have no further follow-up question, but the reason I am arguing for this is that we have noticed that in cats the virus has disappeared quickly, so that no research can be done. So it's a plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u161	In cats, we're already doing exactly that research. We've already started that. I just said that. In addition, we carry out research in pigs. Not that pigs give cause to think they can get covid, but I want to know how this can or cannot develop in other animals. We're already doing that research on the cats. We're doing that research on the dogs. We're also looking at the pigs. That investigation is therefore taking place. The vets are also on alert and look closely at it. That's how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u162	How many questions are there left?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u163	I'm almost there. You want to finish quickly...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u164	No, not with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u165	Oh, okay. Mr De Groot had asked about the scrapping and conversion scheme. I just explained it. This week, Friday, the Chamber will have the veil of the demolition and conversion regulations, which I have to preside over in the Chamber on the basis of the law. Then it has to go to the Council of State because it is in the law, because of the ban on fur animal farming. Then the Chamber can take note of what this demolition and conversion scheme looks like. I'll be at the slaughterhouses in a minute, but I'll see if I've answered the questions about covid. Mrs Ouwehand asked about breeding restrictions. A motion was adopted yesterday, I believe, on a breeding restriction. I understand that she also has an initiative legislative proposal in preparation on this point... Oh, the motion is stopped!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u166	I see the Minister is suddenly quite happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u167	I understand that the Minister had hoped that the motion had been passed. That offers new prospects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u168	I was just about to explain that measures have already been taken in a number of sectors to reduce the number of animals throughout the chain. Let me put it this way. There are fewer calves imported. It's completely flattened for the ducks. This has also been taken into account in poultry farming. So it happens in different places. I also said to the sectors: 'Watch out, it is also your responsibility to ensure that the problems do not arise there. That's what you're responsible for. Also make sure that it is managed properly, so that because there will be a problem with slaughterhouses, the individual farmer is suddenly left with his hands in the hair." But it's not like I can just impose a breeding ban right now. The law is the law. I can't just say to someone that you can't keep animals or set up a new stable. The motion has been held, I understand, but I really think it is a responsibility of the sector itself to deal with it properly. I would point out, however, that if you introduce a breeding ban for some animals now, it will take ten months for this to take effect. So it's not like it's gonna solve a problem tomorrow that you might have at abattoirs right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u169	I would like to continue this debate with the Minister tomorrow. In reply to our parliamentary questions, she indeed said 'I have no legal basis'. I can tell her that I have tabled an amendment to create that legal basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u170	You're free to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u171	I'm curious, but we'll find out tomorrow. I'll get to the abattoirs via a small bridge. Of course, this is also about slaughterhouses. The answers to most of the questions lie with colleagues. I have been asked what the role of LNV is in this and what I have done about it. "We" is then the NVWA. The NVWA has also sent a letter to the slaughterhouses rather early in the morning saying: "Our people must be able to work safely. Where that does not happen, we have the opportunity to bring the people back from the slaughter. If that happens, there will be no more veterinarian present and no more slaughter." Already at a rather early stage when covid was spotted, that was given to the abattoirs. That's been repeated again. The inspection SZW co-signed this and so an even more powerful signal was sent: beware, this is a situation in which we can draw our conclusions. Then there will also be consequences for the slaughter process. Indeed, on 26 May I had an intensive discussion with the sector and incredibly stressed the role and responsibility they themselves have to take the right measures. As I said before, it applies not only to slaughterhouses but also to the whole of the Netherlands. Everyone must take good care of their employees, especially in corona time, and also take the measures necessary to ensure that people are able to work safely. That's what the catering industry needs to do, and that's what you're doing here, Mr. Chairman. There can't be so many people in this room anymore. Then it is also very logical for slaughterhouses to do so. The security regions have their own role in this. Mr De Jonge will say a little more about this, including the letter he sent to the security regions. In addition, we asked RIVM to look at the effect of the specific production conditions where it is cool, humid and noisy in and around the slaughterhouses, so that we can get a better view of it. I think that colleagues will be going into more detail later on about the specific questions that there are. Mr De Groot's question was whether it is logical that the NVWA should also monitor what should happen. We have agreed with the Inspection SZW and the NVWA that the NVWA can be the eyes and ears. If they see any abuses occurring, they will pass it on to the inspection. But the authority to act there really lies with the Inspection SZW. That is not the authority of the NVWA, because it has to look at what is happening in the slaughter process and not how employees are being treated. But we agreed on a good way of working with each other to act quickly and not to stand there with our eyes closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u172	I see Mr Futselaar standing, but I think it might be useful to finish this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u173	I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u174	Members will then be given an opportunity to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u175	A question was also how the signals at NVWA get to management from the workplace. How does that come out? Within the NVWA, a lot of attention has been paid to safe working for the employees from the start of the corona crisis, especially at locations. This is also the subject of an ongoing exchange of information. They also do so through the regular lines they have to inform employees. The NVWA has also set up a group of employees who, precisely in that exchange of information between employees and management, perform an important signal function. An active survey has also been conducted to identify NVWA employees. The points that came out of it have also been actively picked up. In this way, the NVWA tries to inform the employees sufficiently and to ensure their health.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u176	I shall now give the floor to Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u177	Who, by the way, has not heard an answer to his question whether the Minister knew why Vion was hit so hard. But that's not why I'm here to interrupt. It is very good that the NVWA decides to withdraw people if the circumstances are too serious. It is not quite clear to me whether there are firm criteria for this. For example, the first time it turned out that 20% of the staff were infected, and on that basis it was decided to withdraw. That may not be entirely correct, but my question is: are there criteria for that? As a follow-up, the Minister is not about working conditions, but she would have already had discussions with slaughterhouses about, for example, tyre speed, which is of course directly related to safety. What came out of these conversations and shouldn't that also be involved in the outbreak of covid?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u178	The criteria are communicated by the NVWA to the employees. They know what to look for. If one finds that this is not being complied with and one feels unsafe about it, then one can also draw conclusions from it. That 20% contagion I want to nuance something. There was 20% absenteeism, but that doesn't mean that it was immediately an infection with covid. The investigation into the tire speed is ongoing. I also promised the Chamber that I would look into this and that I would have criteria developed to enable the NVWA to assess what tyre speed can be allowed in a slaughterhouse. We're working on that investigation, but it's not finished yet. It is now true that in some places the slaughterhouses themselves have decided to reduce the tyre speed, because there can be fewer staff on a band. That has consequences for how much you can slaughter. In practice, therefore, a number of things are already being taken up. The specific question about Vion: I don't have any information about that. So I can't answer why it happens there so much more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u179	There's another whistleblower calling in to me. I told you that during my input. It's a whistleblower I've previously linked to the Ministry of LNV. Then it turned out he was right, but the problem is that the best man isn't here anymore. I think that is a very bad thing, because he said to his superiors two months ago 'beware boys, there are going to be infections at the slaughterhouse'. The same thing he predicted with the Romanians.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u180	That is what you said in your first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u181	Yes, but I can't get an answer, Mr. Chairman! And, Mr President, I would like to say one more thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u182	Oh, tell me!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u183	It's all very important. So it just turns out that despite the 100 debates we have had here on Aid and NVWA over the last ten years, there is simply no improvement! What's the minister gonna do to get that good vet back? That man has to go back. Surely it can't be that the people who have now failed continue, while such a man, who has been the whistleblower and who turns out to be right, is at home? What the hell are we doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u184	It's hard for me to go into an individual case. I don't know what's going on. I don't know what's going on. It is true that Mr Graus has also raised cases of whistleblowers earlier. I would really like to ask you to see, for example, whether there can be another conversation at NVWA, if that is the feeling. Then I'd like to ask that person there to discuss it. When I'm in the middle of it all the time, it's complicated for me. The only thing is that I can't judge whether this has anything to do with it. There may well be a labour dispute or whatever. Of course, it's very complicated to talk about that. But if there is a need for a conversation, I will ask the inspector-general of the NVWA if there can be a conversation with this person.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u185	That vet called me two months ago. He said, "Dion, watch out for the slaughterhouses. Watch out for those Romanians. There are people within the NVWA, in middle management, who attract all those Romanians, so they don't want to burn their hands on this, but there's going to be a fireplace." And that's the last thing I'm saying about it, Madam President. He's also been trying to get ahold of scientists. He didn't manage to do that either as a NVWA doctor. It can't be! It can't be that Dr. Van de Goot, who has caused five corona patients, doesn't get in touch with Jaap van Dissel of the RIVM. You can't do that! We don't live in ivory towers. It's outrageous what's happening. We could also have saved hundreds of people if we had listened to that doctor Van de Goot earlier. He discovered clots in the heart earlier than Jaap van Dissel of the RIVM knew. That guy wasn't listened to for four days. If people had blood thinners right then, we'd have been weeks ahead and then maybe we could have saved a few hundred people. I find it unlikely what's happening. It is my greatest frustration as a Member of Parliament that we are not being listened to enough while a whistleblower is reporting to us and not to the government. The government is too far away from those people. They report to a member of parliament, to a representative of the people. That's where they report in. We need to be listened to a little more. It should not always be the case that something very bad has to happen first and that they only then come into action. It just makes me tired.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u186	But...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u187	And it just costs people and animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u188	Mr. Graus, I understand the Minister has offered that the NVWA will have a conversation...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u189	I have offered that I will ask the Ig of the NVWA if there can be a conversation with this person. I don't know if the ig is gonna do that himself, but I'll ask if anyone at the NVWA is having that conversation with this person, if there's any need for it with this person.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u190	Then that's clear, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u191	I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u192	You're done. You did a great job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's good!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u194	Very well, thank you for that. I want to suspend for lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-4.u195	After the suspension we continue with the answers of the Secretary of State and the Minister of VWS.
