ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u1	I also welcome, of course, the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport. Today we are going to have the debate on the Temporary Law Notification Application covid-19, Room Document 35538. Before I give the floor to Mr Hijink, I would like to make an appointment with you to allow two interruptions in the first term. But you can also ask four questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr Hijink has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In April, my colleague Lilian Marijnissen stated here that in this country you should be an app looking for a smartphone rather than a health care provider looking for a mouth cap. They were furious in the field next door, because such a remark really crossed a border, the Prime Minister called out from field-K. But of course it is exactly the image that many people had, because as much haste and energy as was put into the app, it has taken so long to ensure that caregivers can be well protected at work. And in some places it still doesn't fit. I also think that after yesterday we can say that this picture was right at the time, because in the latest OMT advice we received yesterday, it becomes clear that testing in nursing homes is going to be much more frequent and much faster. There is now a clear mandate to carry preventive protective equipment in the regions with many infections. These are very important things that healthcare professionals have been asking for for months and for which the SP has asked countless times. Mr. Chairman. Preventive protection in healthcare has unfortunately taken months. The scaling up of the source and contact research has also been a long wait. But the app had to go through with steam and boiling water. This minister turned his ministry into some sort of warroom for a weekend. You're going to speak English with these terms, especially with this minister. In that kind of confusion, everyone could show their app and their ideas. It all looked super hip and trendy, but it mainly produced apps where experts could shoot a lot of holes or even have shot. The Minister will perhaps say today that a very open process has been deliberately chosen, that this was just a market exploration and that it was actually just the beginning: let everyone submit, let everyone watch, let a thousand flowers bloom. But it didn't turn out to be a success. The show that was delivered mainly caused a lot of unrest. We could not use this unrest, certainly not at that stage of the pandemic, and certainly not at a time when the confidence we need to have in the action of the government needs to be strengthened. Mr. Chairman. It is no secret that the SP has spent months looking with frustration at the pace in which the source and contact research has expanded. That was way too slow for us. The communication between this minister and the GGD didn't go well. Everything runs smoothly, we heard from the GGD. But then we heard from local GGDs that they were informed through the press conference of the minister that they had to scale up. We know there's a lot of work going on at the G.D.D., all over the country. My group, the SP, has enormous respect and appreciation for this. But we have much less appreciation for the messy way in which the cabinet has taken up source and contact research and testing policy in recent months. It is frustrating that we hear again these days that the waiting times for a test are increasing again. It's frustrating that sometimes people have to wait days until they get the results of their tests. If we want to put this virus in the head, this can't and can't happen. We cannot stress this often enough. That is why I would also like to know today from the Minister how we can fully work the regular source and contact research. What has happened in recent months to build up more capacity? How can it be that before the flu season has to start and while the r is a day or two in the month, the minister should warn again that there is not enough capacity to test everyone? Mr. Chairman. The Minister wanted to go very quickly with the app; a little too quickly, as I said earlier. The national introduction of an app that maintains contacts can have major consequences. That's what the Rathenau Institute says. They argue that when it comes to whether the app is effective and proportionate, we should take into account that the CoronaMelder's reliability is 70% to 75%, and that there are still risks when it comes to carelessness in the reporting process. Can the Minister respond to that? And can the Minister also state very clearly when, in his opinion, the CoronaMelder's commitment is no longer proportionate? What exactly does that depend on? Or does he think that the use of the app is useful as long as some infections come up with it? According to the Minister, what are the expected consequences of this app on our society? How does he look at the chance that the massive deployment of the app will mean that some people, such as conductors, care staff, shop staff, are reported much more often than others? And what does that mean for them, if they were to receive regular reports? How should they deal with this, and what support is there for people who are often exposed to infected people? I know that we have had the discussion earlier about home quarantine, as people after, in this case, a report because the source and contact research has shown that they were in contact with an infected person, should stay home for seven days. That's quite a challenge for some people, if you're azzp'er, if you're dependent on assignments to provide your income. And I wonder how the Minister handles it, especially for those people who can get a lot of reports. The use of the app must also not lead to a failure to comply with the rules. Does the Minister recognize that, too? It may happen that people think: I now have that detector, the CoronaMelder; if I have been near someone who is infected, then I get a report, so I will notice by myself and then I have to keep a little less to the rules in force. And can it be guaranteed once again that the app, as it has now been developed, will not eventually be used by the government for other purposes, for example in the context of detection? The app we are discussing today, or the law we are discussing today, can only contribute if the Minister ensures that the basis is in order. If there are waiting lists for a test, this app will mainly provide more waiting lists at the GGD. And if there is too little capacity for thorough source and contact research, then this app cannot replace that human work. I want to know from the Minister if he agrees with the SP. Is it true, as we read about regions where the app is now being tested, that some GGDs actually experience that the functioning of the CoronaMelder reduces the control on the regular source and contact research? After all, the CoronaMelder does not provide control information to detect fireplaces. Is there a risk that the introduction of the app will give us a worse view of where fireplaces are developing? Is it possible, therefore, that more often people come into the picture, but precisely the locations where the same people have been together, less often come into the picture? Is that an existing risk? Another concern for the SP is that there is a possibility that many more people will report for a test without it being clear where they may have contracted the virus. Doesn't this lead to additional haystacks for the GGD to search, when you actually want that fireplace to come into the picture? And is the GGD capable of taking on these additional tasks? Do they have enough capacity, are they working on that capacity? Which brings me to the effectiveness of the app. The model to be used in the evaluation is very clear requirements. The app must be sufficiently effective, at the level of the individual, by providing reliable reports. At the level of the GGD, the app should be helpful in the source and contact research. And for the government itself, the effectiveness becomes visible if it helps to reduce the spread of the virus. When I see what we have had in the past week of piles of annexes to this law of all kinds of advisers, I see that there are still very serious doubts on all three points. The GGDs that worked with the app don't know if it's going to help with the source and contact research. And the individual user has a real risk of false alarms. This can of course have a significant impact, because the government does ask you to change your behavior after a report: stay at home; do not visit people with vulnerable health; let yourself, possibly, test. How many false reports are acceptable to the Minister to track down one infection via the app? The Minister will carry out an ongoing evaluation of the app with an evaluation protocol. I quote: "It is not effective enough when monitoring shows that the CoronaMelder does not contribute to the wider, faster and more efficient detection of virus infected persons." But if we look at what information we are getting, it is only a question of whether we are going to get an exact picture of it. Because we don't know who installed that app, not how many people have removed the app again, not who gets a call, not where someone might have gotten in touch with an infected person, not who gets tested after a report and not who goes into quarantine after a report. Mr. Chairman. Let me stress that there are very good reasons why we do not know all this, because the app rightly focuses on the privacy of people, of users. Quite right, because no one is waiting for a government app that follows every step of the way. But the logical disadvantage of that choice is of course that it will be very difficult to show what the effect of the CoronaMelder is. For what we do find out, we have to rely on what people themselves want to share, for example whether people after an infection at the GGD indicate if they have had a report. I heard on Monday in the briefing that in the pilot regions where the app is already running 412 people have come into view, have had a report and have registered with the GGD for a test. So we don't know how many reports there have been in total, or how many people have acted after a report. But this was 412. We were not told what percentage of these 412 people was actually infected. I'm curious about that. That doesn't say everything, but if the percentage is zero, then that could just say something about the effectiveness or the precision of the app. If the percentage is very high, you could say that it does indeed make a good contribution. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister whether we have more figures on the positive results of the 412 people. Does the Minister recognise that measuring effectiveness is very difficult? If he thinks so, how will he determine in the coming months that the app has no added value or added value? What does this permanent evaluation look like? What is the regularity of this? What information is going to contribute to a decision to repeal or extend this law? Mr. Chairman. In the pilot regions, people who received a report could also be tested if they had no complaints. Since yesterday, we know that this can be very useful, because the OMT reports that half of the residents in a nursing home that has been investigated were infected, without having any symptoms of the virus. What would make more sense then that people who have had a report can also get a test on the virus quickly? That gives the user of the app clarity and it contributes to the rapid isolation of new infections. I wonder why the Minister is so hesitant about this. I also read it in the answer: it would be nice if we could, but we do not yet know if we are going to do so. I think it's weird that they're being so hesitant about that. Does he share the opinion of the SP that the app adds relatively little if the introduction is not accompanied by tests without complaints? Why else would you install the app? Why would you install the app? The minister is still saying, "You can only be tested if you have real complaints." So anyone who has complaints now is tested. But if you get a call later, you won't get a test automatically. You have to wait until you have complaints, but if you have complaints, you're already supposed to get tested. Then what is the added value of the app and the notification you get? Or does the minister think it's added value that you might change your behavior after a report? You've had a call and you may become extra careful in contact with others. It may be an effect, but that seems to us to be a rather limited addition to the whole source and contact research. In short, Mr President, is it not inconsistent policy when you are told through the CoronaMelder that you have had an infected contact, but that you cannot be tested if you have no complaints? Does this not undermine the support and effectiveness of the app? I would also like to ask the Minister if testing without complaints is a condition for him to introduce the app nationwide. That was not quite clear to me at the press conference yesterday. Is it a tough condition? Are we going to arrange the testing without any complaints and then enter the app? Or is that the other way around? Mr. Chairman. I still have some questions about how the app works. The Minister's explanatory statement still contains the advice to open the app daily to force the update. Is it true that people can miss a notification if they don't open the app every day and close it again? It seems particularly unfortunate to me for an app that should be running in the background, that you still have to open and close it every day because otherwise you miss the notifications, which is precisely why the app was built. Can the minster indicate if the 25 vulnerabilities found during the penetration tests have been resolved? We read in the documents that 11 of those 25 vulnerabilities have been addressed, but we don't know what's going on with the rest. Well, there's still a lot left. Can the Minister also indicate what he thinks about the fact that part of the source and contact research is now dependent on techreuzen like Google and Apple? Source and contact research is a public task. I can imagine that we will work more often with technical means in the future to support us when it comes to public health, but what will the cabinet do to be less dependent on these commercial parties in the future? How hard are the agreements with Apple and Google to actually deactivate the exposure notification framework of Dutch users at the Minister's request when the corona crisis is over? Or can it also be that Google and Apple gradually change the terms of use? In Monday's briefing, it was stated that Apple and Google would have no interest in proceeding with the data collected. I thought that was a rather unconvincing position, because of course it is not a question of whether they could do anything with it, but it is a matter of not wanting these companies to use our data. I wonder what agreements the Minister has made on this matter. It would also be good if the Cabinet were prepared to analyse and evaluate the way in which the current app was created. I am referring specifically to the phase after the reconnaissance, the show we saw in April. What went well since then, when serious work was being done on the development of the app, and what went less well? What choices have made for an app in which privacy is guaranteed? There has been a transparent work in construction and testing, but could that be even better? As far as the SP is concerned, it would be a good thing for the government to learn lessons for future ICT projects, not only in the field of public health but also in other areas. As far as I'm concerned, the Minister doesn't have to do that on his own. He's busy enough, but it would be very good if later this year the Chamber gets an analysis of how the government will more often carry out ICT projects transparent, open source and with a view to privacy. I would like to ask the Minister if he is willing, not himself but a colleague, to make such an analysis to see what lessons we can learn from this project, including for future ICT projects. In order to gain and maintain confidence in the app, abuse of the technology and the information obtained must be avoided. The anti-abuse clause contained in the law is therefore of great importance, but we seriously wonder whether it goes far enough, because only mandatory use of the app is not enough in terms of the SP. As far as I am concerned, the experience of formal or informal pressure must also be explicitly incorporated into the law, because even without a formal obligation, pressure may arise in relation to the use of the app or to share information. An employer may not require an employee to install the app. That seems clear to me, but can he ask about that? Are you sure he's allowed to call for it? When does a call to use the app change to informal pressure to install the app? I would ask the Minister to clarify this point. Can a student association ask its members to install the app? Can a soccer coach in a locker room say it would be really nice for everyone to know when they've had a report? The current anti-abuse clause states that it is forbidden to require another to use the app, but if we read the explanatory memorandum to the law in a response to our written input, then the Minister interprets this provision much wider than we can read it ourselves in the law. For the Minister states that informal pressure, especially when there is a relationship of authority or dependency, is seen as an obligation to use and therefore as an abuse of the app. I think we are in fact in agreement, but I wonder why it is not much more clearly defined in the article of law itself and is much more aligned with what it says in the explanatory statement. It is just so important that people do not feel that in certain situations the use of the app becomes a kind of unwritten rule, even if it was just because a million Dutch people cannot install the app at all, for example because they have an outdated phone. I would also like to ask the Minister how he looks at the amendment we tabled together with the SGP and the Christian Union. Mr. Chairman. There will be a hotline at the Health and Youth Inspectorate, the IGJ, for people who have experienced pressure when using the app. We do have doubts about that. Why was it chosen to place the hotline at the inspection? Is this really a logical place for people who are in conflict with an employer? What other possibilities has the Minister explored to regulate supervision? For example, has enforcement been looked at by the Personal Data Authority? What about the capacity at the inspection? Can they run this, run a whole hotline, just add it? Has it been investigated how much work it produces and whether it is at the expense of other supervisory tasks? We know that the inspection has also had a lot of extra work in recent months, for example in monitoring the distribution of protective equipment in healthcare. Can the Minister guarantee that the inspection can adequately man this hotline and is the IGJ the appropriate organisation to handle notifications? These reports will sometimes not be in the field of health care at all. And so the question is: is there sufficient capacity? Finally, Mr President. The app was announced a few months ago with a lot of bombs. I think it would have been smarter if the Minister had been a little more modest, because the Minister will also have to acknowledge today that we do not really know whether the app that has now been developed will actually contribute to the fight against the virus. And if there is an experiment, perhaps the Minister should just call it that. I would like to make two points very clear. As far as SP is concerned, anyone who receives a notification of possible contamination via the app should also be able to obtain a test as soon as possible. I ask the Minister once again whether he will make a commitment to this. Otherwise, we shall call on him to do so by motion. We also want the Minister's guarantee that the deployment of the app will not lead to the reduction of the actual human source and contact research by the GGD. That is urgently needed at the moment, and that needs to be developed. An app can certainly not be a replacement for that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I don't really understand what this is all about, and that question is also asked in the documents why a law is necessary for the introduction of this app, with all the voluntaryness involved. Perhaps the Minister could explain that. The CoronaMelder was supposed to be deployed nationally yesterday, but the Minister postponed it because, I understand, the app is not working properly yet and both chambers still have to consider it. 50PLUS wonders if it is a good idea to start that app while the whole testing process is not yet in order. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. If you get a notification that you've been around someone who has corona for 15 minutes, of course you want to get tested as well. But the capacity is not enough for that. Laboratories that process corona tests do not have enough materials in stock and at the GGD the capacity is not yet in order. Shouldn't the minister get his act together before he introduces that app? 50PLUS believes that once you have received a notification, you should also have the opportunity to be tested. So as long as people who get a report that they've been around have to be tested for complaints, what is the added value of this app? We must not be tested until we have complaints, so the CoronaMelder does not change anything. Months ago, the Minister wanted to launch an app, but that turned out to be easier said than done. Now there has been more time to build a sound app, but I would like to ask the Minister whether he can guarantee that speed of introduction does not prevail and that the app has been thoroughly examined before it is introduced. The Minister has only one chance. This is his last chance. If it turns out that privacy isn't okay, then we can throw the app in the trash for good. In some regions, the app has been tested for effectiveness, both technical and user-friendliness. Specific groups were included, such as deaf and hearing impaired and low-lettered. Have they also been tested by those specific groups and found user-friendly and accessible? That hasn't completely made sense to me. I'd like a response from the Minister. What about the help desk? Is it well-equipped? Will specific groups be taken into account there? The expert panel that carried out the ethical analysis recommends investigating the size of the group that does not have access to the app, because they have no or too old smartphone. I know a lot of older people who get a smartphone from their kids that was a couple of years older. Sometimes those smartphones can't be updated properly. How much is the proportion of that group that has an increased risk of infection, such as the elderly? 50PLUS likes to hear from the minister whether he is going to take a good look at it and whether he is thinking about giving it access. Finally, Mr President, two more questions. It has been decided not to cooperate with neighbouring countries. What does that mean for people in the border regions? People in the regions bordering Germany might still be able to download the German app. But Belgium doesn't have such an app yet. There are places in Brabant where the Belgian border runs three times. What's it like in there? The Dutch order of lawyers considers that a maximum detention period of six months on infringement of the anti-abuse clause is not proportionate. He's proposing a maximum of three months. The government doesn't take that advice. Why did they choose that higher sentence? Finally, Mr President, I would like to join Mr Hijink's question about events and about people other than the employer who may ask whether or not you downloaded the app. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mrs Sazias. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have a long corona day ahead of us, with first the legal treatment and later a bigger debate, where all aspects of the whole of the fight against corona will actually be discussed. I would like to make it quite clear here, because that is a reason for me to keep the contribution a bit more compact and really focus on the law itself. This afternoon, source and contact research is also part of the debate, so if we are going to discuss source and contact research extensively, we would have a lot of duplication. That is why I have at least chosen to put the questions to the law now. Of course, all kinds of other questions also play a role in the final consideration, but we will vote on the law tomorrow, if we have also had the other debate. (NL) Mr President, just a moment more precisely. We are now voting on a law which states that it is desirable to include certain safeguards in the law to prevent abuse of a possible notification application to be used or of another similar means. That CoronaMelder is here by now. It's used, but we think it's important to see how you handle it as best you can and how you protect the citizen as best you can. I think that is important, also as a commitment to this debate and to the way in which we look at this law. That also makes us feel positive about the idea that, before you actually start the app nationally, you will at least ensure that you have an independent, legal basis. In our view, this could improve confidence in the app. Of course there are the necessary questions. Is it necessary? What about my privacy? Is it voluntary? Is it temporary? Then it is very good that you give clear answers to that in a law. At the beginning of the year, the cabinet collapsed into that appaventure. There was some criticism. Honestly, the cabinet listened to that. Of course, a lot has been improved. For the SGP, it is important that we do not rush into an app because it is hip, like: everyone in Europe has it, well we still have it. We shouldn't fall in love with technology, we should just look very sober. Can such an app make a meaningful contribution to the source and contact research? Then you also have to weigh very carefully whether it is also well guaranteed that it is indeed more joy than noise. It must have more added value than it could possibly give rise to problems. Are we sure that the data needed for this cannot be used for a wrong purpose? I would also like to put a big line under the volunteer. We have already said this in our initial response. We appreciate the fact that, in the end, it is very clearly stated in the law, let me add. You'd say that's obvious, right? Well, I remember from the first discussion about that app that it wasn't so obvious at all that it was voluntary. The whole pandemic fight has all kinds of mandatory aspects. Take the quarantine and the source and contact research. So it is really not so obvious that we say: yes, of course, it must be voluntary. That is why we want to say: yes, we are glad that this is the outcome. We strongly support the fact that this use of technology is supportive, but voluntary. It is good that the anti-abuse clause is also included in the law and that no one should be obliged to download the app or similar apps, or to share information about it with others. As far as we are concerned, the wording of that provision should indeed be more precise. Mr Hijink has already mentioned it. The current provision does not provide protection for people who experience formal or informal pressure to share information about the use of the app with others. That is why we have tabled an amendment with the SP and the Christian Union in order to clarify this in the law, actually by formulating as precisely as possible in the explanatory memorandum and in the note on the report. As far as I'm concerned, that was the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u8	I would like to come back to the issue of volunteering and the fact that it has been a choice of voluntary rather than mandatory, compared with a number of other measures which were indeed mandatory. The colleague pretends that it was a choice that could be different. I would actually ask him to revise that, because I think it is important that we think that this is also the only possible choice, because otherwise there may be unequal treatment. Because not everyone has an app and not everyone has a phone. You can't make people do that. So volunteering is not only an open choice, but is also inevitable in the light of preventing unequal treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u9	If I haven't been clear enough about that, I'm happy with the opportunity to confirm that. That is exactly what I find and what I support with it. The only right choice is to do it voluntarily. What I referred to was: now it seems so obvious, but in the beginning it was not at all the case. At the first press conference, this minister said that we were going to think about exactly how that would be designed. The very first sounds were not that it was equally clear. Then I think: it is also good to remember and also to hear from the Minister what his views are. That is useful to hear, because tomorrow, when there is a contagion, it can suddenly be like: shouldn't we start forcing it? Let us therefore say well-founded and well-considered: we have thought carefully about it and this is what we really think. The thing about volunteering. I would also like to ask the Minister how voluntary work in communicating this app. Again, I understand that if it's a valuable tool, it's important that it's used as well. But the communication should not be designed in such a way that you experience a strong moral pressure to start using it, despite the fact that it says neatly that its use is voluntary. Mr. Chairman. I come to the additional value, the key question for us. Technique can be a useful tool, but undoubtedly there is always noise. You can get a wrong report, which actually didn't add up, because you wouldn't have been as close to someone as you thought. That can make people very worried. In short, there is a risk of noise. It may also be that you don't get a message, whereas that was actually necessary, which makes you unintentionally careless, of: everything is fine, because I haven't had a call. That is two sides of the murmur. You're being mistakenly worried, or you could be wrongly careless. What is the Minister's assessment of the added value that the use of the app can actually bring? That is, as I said, the key question for us. I also think that everyone's input to the debate is very valuable for that final consideration, that you have the conviction that this will help us to get a step further, including in that research on sources and contact and the proper fight against the virus. Finally, the issue of evaluation. Part of the use of the app also has longer-term effects. At the moment, we do not know exactly what it does that app is there and is used massively, and you sometimes have to experience that in order to be able to establish it properly. It is therefore important that it be thoroughly evaluated. We have been given the necessary information. That happens all the time. We also asked for it to be explicitly involved in the wider evaluation of the fight against the corona virus in the written procedure. The Minister responded positively to that. Will he confirm this and indicate exactly how he intends to involve it in this major evaluation? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When this minister came up with the plan to deploy a corona app, my group called for attention to three things. One. If this is really necessary, you should set up all the privacy conditions very strictly. Two. Pay attention to the broad societal impact. Watch how such an app affects human and social contact. Thirdly, also use...................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Minister then said about the use of his app, and I quote: "This is actually a condition, a condition for actually moving to a next phase." Later he even said that if it doesn't work out, "it just doesn't work out; that's a shame, so it must work out." That is important background information in this law, because the whole process breathes 'this must succeed'. It is up to us as a Chamber today to assess, independently of the ambition and prestige of this minister, whether this app helps and is proportionate. Before I go into that, I would like to make two comments. One is that I admire the amount of work done by the officials, but the other is that this is far from satisfactory. Everything has to be fast-tracked, because the app has to be launched. Then it becomes a rush job, with errors in the answer and no answers to questions in our written input. The civil servants cannot help being imposed on them a much too strict deadline, but it really feels like a prestige project by this minister that has to pass through this Chamber as quickly as possible. That is why we are concerned about the preparation of this debate, given that we are dealing with an issue that is complex and that we should deal with it in detail. The coalition is also entitled to charge for this. Then I'll move on to the content. The Minister wants to introduce a corona app, and this law should provide the basis and establish the safeguards. The introduction of an app like that isn't just anything. With this app we take a step towards a society in which we constantly monitor how far someone else is away from us. That affects how we feel, how we approach others and how we get used to technology that always knows where we are. That's a big deal. If you want to introduce something so radical for the whole country, then there must be a huge amount of profit to be made and then you must also be sure that there are no alternatives. That is why my further contribution will largely focus on this. What does this app get us in the fight against the coronavirus? What would we have to turn in for that? Are there really no alternatives? The app should help, among other things, detect high-risk contacts. To see if it really happened, the Secretary of Defense had all kinds of situations mimicked to see how precise this app is. The military went on their training ground to imitate situations from everyday life with this phone in their pocket: sitting on the train, walking down the street in scenarios, such as a cinema and a school set-up. In this way it was possible to compare what was the difference between a real, physical situation and the situation that the phones perceived. Turned out what? Of all the situations in which you would at least expect a notification, these are cases in which people are within 1.5 metres of each other for a quarter of an hour, in 27% of the time, people were not notified. So more than a quarter of the risk cases were missed by this app. Not only were risk cases missed; of all people who did receive a report, only 41% had actually been 15 minutes within that 1.5 meter. So over half of the reports, 59%, were false. And then, in response to our questions, the Minister says that this may be so, but that we have certainty that people who received a report have been within 10 metres. The Minister calls that "nearness." My group does not think that 10 metres are close, at least not in relation to the spread of the virus. This says a lot about the reliability of this app. How will people be at home, in the garden or at work when you think a 10 meter bubble around you? So you make contact with the neighbors and neighbors. Is this perhaps why the Minister indicates that people need to pause the app at home, otherwise there will really be too many false reports? Mr. Chairman. As you can understand, my group still has far too much doubt as to whether this app is accurate enough to help us identify those high-risk contacts. Another example mentioned by the Minister was that contacts can be traced more quickly with the app, faster than with conventional source and contact research. But what does it turn out to be? This is only the case when the telephone checks regularly for contamination. The app doesn't check that automatically in all cases. The phone only checks infections if the app is actually opened. There are phones that don't pick up codes for 57 hours. So now the Minister advises to open that app every day. My group expects that, if that does not change, the potential time savings will soon be destroyed again. Now I saw this morning that an update has been released for the app in which this may have been corrected. Can the Minister confirm that this is the case? Does the Minister think it is appropriate that we are discussing an app here today that has been downloaded hundreds of thousands of times, while these crucial steps still need to be repaired? So how's that update gonna work? We just don't know yet. As far as I am concerned, this shows how the majority of the Chamber is rushing towards careless legislation, and that this is simply not yet ready to do so. What is this app going to cost our society? In addition to that social impact, I will come to that in a moment. It is also going to cost us simply test capacity, which we already do not have enough available. Can the Minister tell us how many reports he's expecting in the near future? Are we at present able to take tens of thousands of additional tests? 'Cause people who get a report like that, of course, just want to be tested. It's a big deal when you're confronted with a report that you may be infected, especially if you have a vulnerable health or someone in your area. The Minister states that the notification that people receive after having had a risk contact will depend on the test rules that we apply to everyone at that time. So if we don't test anyone without complaints, we're not gonna test people with corona app notifications without complaints. But of course it doesn't work that way; Mrs Kuik referred to that on Monday. Someone who gets a call like that just wants to be tested. Well, then you're gonna want an answer. Does the Minister therefore take into account that people will report on a large scale for such a test and perhaps even start faking symptoms? Does the Minister, like the Animal Party, really expect this to be taken into account in the testing capacity that is now available? The one-sidedness is a disadvantage of such an app. Either the app gives you the feeling that you are in great danger or that you are safe when there is no reason at all. There's no such thing as a middle ground. In his reply, the Minister will clearly point out that classical source and contact research is not always completely flawless and that there are also great estimates made. But those estimates contain nuances and are based on human measure. We'll never consider the neighbors two fences away as high-risk contact. I now come to the social impact, a subject which is only limited in the many hundreds of pages. In the ethical analysis that the minister had done, there is little to read about this broad societal impact. How is this going to change our society? What can be read is that this app needs to be positioned as a means of digital solidarity to prevent people from becoming hesitant for surveillance and that the corona app will trigger a cultural change. In short: in order to prevent tension between people who do want to install the app and people who do not want to, a kind of emotional PR campaign needs to be started. In fact, the minister says that people who do not want to use the app and have a vulnerable person in their environment, choose not to protect that person. That tension between the free choice and the social compulsion will be played through the national introduction throughout society. As far as we are concerned, too little attention has been paid to this. What effects is it going to have on people's willingness to be tested at all if it turns out that the majority of the reports were false? What will it do with confidence in the government, with the support for the broad corona measures? As far as we're concerned, this is a really hasty bet. It is also significant that the Minister only wants to end the law if the app is not sufficiently effective. For my group, it is clear that if you take that social impact seriously, we should also stop the app if we see too many undesirable side effects, however effective that app can be. Can the Minister explain why he refuses to broaden the possibility to terminate the app? If there is no alternative, we wonder. Of course, there is, of course, the ordinary source and contact research, something to which my group called the Minister at the beginning of April. The minister didn't want that at the time. Eventually, that scale-up did happen. Now we can see that if we were to organise that later, that could work fine. Mr President, you will understand that for my group the need for this app has not been conclusively demonstrated. The app is too imprecise, too hasty and not proportionate. There are still a few smaller points I would like to mention. I have a question about the studies that the Minister is calling for to prove that even in the case of restricted use, this app already has added value. Is it true that these studies do not model an app at all, but look much more at the theoretical profit if you can observe early infection? Is it true that an uncertainty, like that of a corona detector, has been completely omitted in that? So what do these studies say? Why has the Minister now decided to tighten up the requirements in the legal text? From the answer during the technical briefing, I understood that this had happened because this would result in a proper legal text. However, this is a temporary law in corona time. At the moment, we prefer explicit and overly clear legal texts, rather than cool legal texts which leave room for interpretation. We just don't want to. Is it true that the written agreements made with Google and Apple were actually just signing their user conditions and that those agreements are only about personal data? Can Apple and Google, for example, use the information whether a user has installed or not for their profile building? Why does the Minister not want to introduce a provision to regulate by law that no other companies or organisations may use the API, not now and not in the future? What guarantee does the Minister have that the intelligence services will not be able to use this API? It is not so much a question of using the infrastructure provided to collect personal data as of using the infrastructure provided. Mr. Chairman. Then the evaluation. This minister is simply saying that he will follow the protocol for evaluation. But the evaluation in accordance with the protocol is mainly focused on effectiveness. We want a much broader consideration and therefore a more robust evaluation. That is why my group wants an evaluation clause in this law. It should specify that the results and mutual data of the evaluation on the effectiveness and societal impact of the app should be made public. That evaluation should be sent to the Court at the same time as a possible extension decision. This would enable us to assess the consequences for society. Why is the Minister not prepared to include such an assessment clause in the law so far? Finally, our group from the Minister would like to know why it is so important that he should be in line with the period of operation of this law with those Temporary Law measures covid-19. Even after three months, is there any way to determine the effectiveness and impact of this app? If the Minister wants to use such an unprecedented means, it must also be possible to convert the period of operation and adapt it to this exceptional situation, and not to allow the Chamber to look at this again in six months' time? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. Mr Van Haga has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're dealing here with a classic goal-change. In March 2020 we thought we were dealing with a major pandemic that came towards us. That is why the cabinet took all kinds of very far-reaching measures. A lockdown was set, the schools closed, a rule was introduced for 1.5 meters while the World Health Organization advised 1 meter. People were no longer allowed to visit nursing homes, people were allowed to receive a limited number of people at home, students were not allowed to do anything anymore and sitting at home watching an online professor. The event industry was turned upside down, the catering industry went on the bottle, the cultural sector was hung by the state infusion. It was decided to create an emergency law to formalize all these matters for a long time. Source and contact studies were introduced and tests were set up which allowed 30,000 PCR tests to be performed per day. And it was proposed to develop an app so that people get a signal when they've been within 1.5 meters of someone supposedly infected for 15 minutes. Mr. Chairman. There's only a few people left on the ICU. Statistically speaking, this is not significant and statistically the corona crisis is therefore completely over. The aim of all measures was to mitigate the corona pandemic. But this goal has now been achieved because the corona pandemic has turned out to be much less severe. The problem now is that the means, all the measures that have been put in place, now seem to have become the goal in itself. So we continue to develop a corona app, while this was a means to combat the corona pandemic. And with that, the corona app has become an end in itself. This also applies to all other measures, in particular the emergency law. My first question is therefore: does the Minister know the phenomenon of the goal-change? And does he agree with me that this is a phenomenon? It's nice, an app like that, but it's not necessary anymore. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a comment on the number of downloads. During the technical briefing it was said that only how often the app has been downloaded is measured. This will determine the penetration rate. However, due to privacy, it is not measured whether the app is deleted again. But another download will be counted again. Does the Minister agree with me that this has actually made the number of downloads an unusable number? Mr. Chairman. We can distinguish different uncertainties with this corona app. All these uncertainties added together give a gloomy picture of the reliability of this app. For example, we can see that the number of positive PCR tests is increasing now that we have started testing more. But a PCR test doesn't show clinical corona contamination at all. Firstly, there is an error rate of perhaps 3%. That means that every 100,000 tests, you wrongly attack 3,000 people with a corona infection. And then a PCR test only shows a viral RNA fragment. So some of the people who test positive are already better. RNA residue appears to be present for three months. So there's a huge margin of error in this. Mr. Chairman. The app gives a signal if someone's been around for 15 minutes from someone who has corona. Those 15 minutes don't say shit. Maybe a minute of kissing is a lot more contagious, and maybe people will get infected when they're singing in church for an hour. So there is enormous uncertainty in this too. Mr. Chairman. During the technical briefing it was indicated that there is a margin of error of 10% on the 1.5 meters used by the app. 10% is huge and in itself makes the app completely debatable. And this is just one of many parameters. The app also uses bluetooth. This is a signal at 2.4 GHz. It is stopped by metal, but it goes effortlessly through stone, glass and those plastic sails that are hung everywhere. So you can sit in a pub 1 meter away from someone, completely separated by glass, while the app doesn't notice. I am not even talking about the other obstacles such as bodies, clothing and walls, which can also be in series, so consecutively. The result is a huge margin of error, of which I do not understand how this Minister is going to programme this all away. In addition, the app makes no distinction between indoors or outdoors. Since Maurice de Hond's excellent work, we know that this is crucial to the risk of infection. Here again we see a huge added uncertainty. The question I have to this minister is the following. Has anyone looked at the cumulative uncertainty in using this app? Because I believe that all the uncertainties mentioned above lead to a complete unusability of this app. Because of the risk that this app will create a new, unjustified wave of fear, it is undesirable that we continue with this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Mr Middendorp has the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u15	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. Only together can we control Corona. If digital devices can help contain the virus, if they can prevent our loved ones from getting on the ic, then we need to find a good way to safely deploy them. Of course, that CoronaMelder isn't an end in itself. Also with a CoronaMelder it remains important that we continue to do what we have been doing since March. Keep your distance, stay at home and wash your hands. The Minister must also remain open to innovations and new things that we can do after the launch of the CoronaMelder. The same applies, of course, to non-digital things. The cabinet needs to keep an open mind on other things we can do in the fight against the virus. This summer, after the first attempt in April, the cabinet took great steps towards a safe and good app. The CoronaMelder is built and there is now a law that will apply as a basis for that. I believe that this law ensures that every Dutchman remains free to use this app or not. Government, individuals or companies are not allowed, thanks to the freedom of the individual and the constitutional right to privacy, to require you to download or look into your phone against your will. The aim is to prevent abuse and protect privacy. The fact that the law passed by the Council of State, which gave a positive opinion, is important in this respect. Mr. Chairman. I told you, since April, with ICT experts, GGDs, the Personal Data Authority and many others have been working on this CoronaMelder. It can support the source and contact research. We believe that there has been a lot of cooperation and testing, including with non-state parties. And that's important in these kinds of projects. There is therefore a great deal to be done to make this a success, because time may cost lives here. The VVD therefore supports the development of the app and the law that makes it possible. But, Mr President, we know from the past that ICT and government have not always been a happy combination. Hopeful ICT projects, discussed in this house, have sometimes ended quite differently than thought here. It must not go wrong after the launch of the CoronaMelder. This requires the Minister to direct it even after the launch of the CoronaMelder. First of all... In the digital world, developments are going very fast. The cabinet must therefore ensure that, for example, the cooperation with the tech companies but also the cybersecurity of this CoronaMelder is not only well regulated now, but also in the future. The CoronaMelder must be future-proof, but also regional-proof. If you live in a border region, you can only install one detector now. You have to choose between the German or the Dutch. I shall come back to this later in the context of an amendment tabled by the CDA. Mr. Chairman. The Corona Melder needs to relieve our G.D.D.s. He needs to support the source and contact research and not get confused. I do not think that we should base ourselves on the assumption that digital source and contact research will work exactly the same and have the same effects as traditional source and contact research. Is that how the Minister sees it? The test capacity is scarce. That can play a major role in the introduction of the CoronaMelder, especially when we talk about asymptomatic testing. In densely populated areas, many people will soon be able to get a lot of reports. It is therefore crucial that the opportunities for action given to these people are appropriate. The LCI guidelines which form the basis for those acts should therefore take into account that the digital road can work differently with fully automatic notifications. The numbers will differ and nowhere in the process is there any empathic human contact. Is that how the Minister sees it? Will he promise to take this into account? After the technical briefing on the basis of the tests that have been carried out and are being carried out, is there not also any reason for further testing, for example at the point of asymptomatic testing, I ask the Minister. A lot of attention has been paid...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u16	Perhaps in between an interruption by Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u17	Yeah, because right here I have a question. The VVD stated in the written contribution to the law that the CoronaMelder app is only useful in conjunction with expanding the test capacity. I couldn't agree more. I said that myself earlier. You'd actually want all the people who get a report to be able to get a test right away, if they want to. Does the VVD share that view? Shouldn't we push the Minister to organize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u18	In my opinion, everyone thinks that the test capacity should be sufficient and is working to increase the test capacity. Any initiative taken to combat the coronavirus may lead to more testing. That's true right now. So yes, we also believe that the test capacity should be increased.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u19	Does that mean that in parallel with the national introduction of this app, it should be regulated that all people who receive a notification via the app can actually apply for a test, even if they have no complaints? This seems to me to be an important condition for the introduction, precisely in order to prevent us from losing the confidence of people who are "hey, I may be infected" but then calling the GGD and not being able to get there. In my view, you should not want to do that and we should agree today that it is arranged in parallel with the introduction of the app that people without complaints can be tested after a notification.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u20	We agree that the test capacity needs to be increased and that the app needs to send notifications that fit what people need to do, but I think it depends on the notifications that the app is going to send. If the app does send a notification that you have to be tested without any complaints, that story could apply. But the app can also send another notification. If you get a notification that you may have been in contact with an infected person, that is a notification that is of value in itself. I wouldn't want to send that report on the basis of problems that are going on elsewhere. I would not go along with Mr Hijink in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u21	Now Mr Middendorp is making things very complicated. That app isn't gonna send 20 different messages or anything. It's not a whatsapp. It's very clear. You've been around someone who's infected and you're getting a report based on the current directive that you've been around there and that you can do something. My point is that you actually want someone who's been around or in close contact with a person who's been infected to be tested immediately. So that's what you have to agree to. Just because you also know that half the people who have the virus have no complaints, you just want to know if people you know have been in the vicinity of an infected person have the virus or not. If today we do not arrange for you to get such a test, because the directive currently states 'tests only on complaints', then it is not useful, exactly in accordance with your own question, in the written input. You say that it is only useful in combination with increasing the test capacity. I assume you mean expanding the test capacity so you can test without any complaints. That's got to be a condition, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u22	I think Mr Hijink makes it very complicated and very simple at the same time. I am not going to change the directive here on the basis that we are going to introduce an app. I think we should stick to what the experts say. And yes, we still agree that the test capacity needs to be increased at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u23	Your last question, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u24	In the regions where the app is now being experimented with, this is true. If you look in the app, it just says that you can get a test if you want it. But if we follow the protocols currently in force in the RIVM at national level, and if we follow the Minister's wish to test only on complaints, then we will have an app, but not a directive that will ensure that everyone can be tested without complaints. You could also agree in a directive that we only arrange for the people who have been notified to the GGD that they can get a test. You can just take care of that with the RIVM. Can't we just make an appointment today? That's not so complicated, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u25	No, it's not that complicated. This is the third time that Mr Hijink has asked me to say something about both the directive and the introduction of the app. It stands or falls with which message people get. We both want to base it on the directive. But I am not going to try, even in a fourth attempt, to adapt the directive at the same time in order to implement the app.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u26	We know the PCR tests aren't completely clean and there's a margin of error in that. Moving on to the previous questions: do you agree with me that it is better for the app if that app becomes more reliable if only people with complaints are tested, because then you have an extra clinical given which might make it more certain that someone is actually infected?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u27	That too is actually a point aside from the introduction of the app. If I may say so: I think Mr Van Haga is changing goals and means. Because he's going to talk about the introduction of the app and ask me whether or not people should be tested without complaints.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u28	No, it's about the cumulative reliability of that app. One of the components containing a margin of error is the PCR test. Then I'm surprised that others here say "you have to test everyone, even though they don't have any complaints," whereas it seems much better and the uncertainty in that first part is removed if you just test people with complaints. So I'm actually trying to help you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u29	Thank you for that. Mr Van Haga makes a very valid point. On the cumulative uncertainty I'll just call it "uncertainty" I'll be right back. But thank you for the help.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u30	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u31	I also heard Mr Middendorp in the technical briefing last Monday. There I heard him investigate a little bit whether it is possible to make some sort of distinction between people who have the app and people who have not downloaded the app for what is then included in the directive. According to the VVD, is it possible to say at some point that people who receive a notification via the app should be able to be tested, even if they do not have complaints, whereas that does not apply to other people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u32	I think this goes back to the debate that has just taken place between Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me to be the basis for you to want everyone treated equally. My comments on the technical briefing also concerned that you should be aware that when we draw up directives we need to be equal for everyone; I agree with Mrs Buitenweg............................................................................................................................................................................... This is done digitally and via a different kind of notification. There's no personal contact with that report. Those are all differences. So if you go back to that directive, you have to take that into account. That was my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u33	Okay, that's the point, but it can't be that someone who gets a notification via an app is put in a position to test for no complaints, while someone without that app can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u34	No, I would like to summarize briefly as: what we normally do in the physical world, we should also continue to do, for example when it comes to equal treatment, when we have a digital tool to support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u35	Then I'll close, Madam President. What, according to the VVD, is the greatest added value?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u36	Of what?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u37	Well, everyone's only allowed to test for complaints. I got tested last Sunday morning for complaints. It took me a little longer than 48 hours to get the results, so I couldn't be there yesterday and that's too bad. But if you have any complaints, you can have them tested. And with an app, you can only be tested when you have complaints. So what is the greatest added value?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u38	Well, first of all, it's good to see you back here. Secondly, I think that in the present time, if we want to combat the virus and there is a digital means that can help, we must do so. That's what I said. And that helping isn't just about sending someone the message "you need to get tested now." There's a whole lot of people's awareness about how they're going down the street in that new era. A number of comments have also been made about this from people who question it, but there are also positive aspects, I think. That's one. Two: information about these types of reports, so the report "you've been near someone," "you've had a risky contact, notice symptoms," is also information that can be valuable to people. Well, then we're not talking about testing yet, but we're talking about that report on its own. And there you can do a lot with this CoronaMelder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u39	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Much attention is paid to the effectiveness of the CoronaMelder, but we also need to look for unforeseen effects. I told you, people can interpret a digital message or a phone call with the same action advice quite differently. It will therefore be crucial to monitor the impact of the CoronaMelder on the policy and capacity of the source and contact research, and on the policy and capacity of the testing process.We have already discussed this, but also on the quarantine readiness of people, as well as on the test readiness of people. That's what I mean when I say the Minister should be on top of that after the launch of the CoronaMelder and keep the lead. Because the question is: how is the minister going to identify possible adverse effects? And there are also a few named Corona Melder OTF here in this house in time, and on the basis of that identification correct? As I said, employers must not, of course, force people to download the app; the anti-abuse clause is crucial in this law. But I do believe that employers and entrepreneurs can also help promote the CoronaMelder among staff and customers. Therefore, the Minister should not openly threaten entrepreneurs with high fines in advance. The aim is not as many fines as possible, but to prevent abuse. As far as the VVD is concerned, it is understandable that companies are concerned about this. It's something new, I said it already, so this law needs to be followed by a uniform enforcement framework, which really guarantees that there's not going to be excessive fines too soon. It's about complying with those standards. The VVD is therefore a clear framework in which a reasonable and proportionate penalty measurement is provided. And this applies: in principle, first a warning call and then a fine. Will the Minister undertake to do so? Finally, I would like to ask a question. What if employers don't want people installing the CoronaMelder? Before I make my call, I think I'll look with you at Mr Verhoeven, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u41	Yes. Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u42	It'll take some getting used to for me, too. Can I actually touch this? How's that going?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u43	Of course. It'll be cleaned after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u44	Mr Middendorp says that he thinks it is important that there should be a warning conversation first when an employer has promoted the app in a certain way. I think that idea is somewhat contrary to the basic idea of absolute voluntaryity, which is very important for D66 in any case, and there is in no way any steering of a party other than the government. It will, of course, present this app to the country in a certain way, and it has already done so in recent months. So I'd like to know from the VVD why she's making this point now, because the idea of this law is exactly full voluntary for all users, without any coercion from someone above you or obliquely above you, like an employer, a soccer coach or someone else in your social network.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u45	Yes, I fully agree with Mr Verhoeven. Not even someone standing next to you can force you. Because no one can force you, but this is about... In the event of malpractice, of course, it is clear: fines. But we say that you should set up a good, reasonable supervisory structure for when there is no malice and in areas where it is less clear. You should look at that. I will give Mr Verhoeven an example. The explanatory memorandum also states: other digital means. That is what we discussed at the technical briefing. That's pretty broad. Think of an entrepreneur who uses other digital resources and does not impose on anyone, but does help promote them. As Mr Verhoeven said, the Minister is also going to do a media campaign around corona. We therefore believe that we must have a very clear approach to how this is to be maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u46	I understand the idea of uniform enforcement. I really don't think it's about employers or other people with a key role in the social network and a possible coercive position vis-à-vis other people to promote this corona app. Because promotion is often more like compulsion. I would like to know from the VVD how important it is that it is really voluntary, regardless of the fact that the VVD is afraid that companies might be fined too quickly. I don't think that's at all in the spirit of anyone who supports the law here. What is for the VVD the definition of real volunteering for people not to have this app? Because I find "promoting" a difficult word in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u47	I get that. We agree on this voluntary nature. That's what this law is about. But we do not agree on the idea that this is separate from that entrepreneurs may get a fine too soon. There must be a proper enforcement framework for this. That's what I'm advocating here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u48	You just gave an example of that promotion. There are a lot of examples. Think of someone who lost his job and is going to apply for a new job. He comes on call and during the conversation is asked: do you use the CoronaMelder? The person in question says, no, I don't. The one he sits with at the table says, "Too bad." Don't you feel there's some moral compulsion behind that? Then how big is the risk that whoever sits there at the table will say: but I intend to? Because it also feels that this may be an important criterion for this employer. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u49	I agree with the speaker. He said it himself: there is coercion, or indirect coercion. That's what it's really about. I think we're looking at it the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u50	But don't you think that the Minister should at least see how he can manage this before we go on with this app very widely? It's lurking. It happens. Let me just give you an example. There are dozens of them to think of. Shouldn't we make sure that we can deal with this kind of thing in a good way? If you report abuse, it's after. The evil has already been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u51	I think we're both seeing that this is a very important area that we can't go through with case-by-case here in this house right now. That is precisely why I asked the Minister about this uniform enforcement framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u52	Then we await the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u53	Fine. Proceed, Mr. Middendorp. I think you were almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u54	Well, chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u55	No, no, my mistake, go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u56	I have to tell you, I don't really remember exactly where I left off. Oh, yeah, I came to my call. I'm almost done, Mr. Chairman. It is therefore important that, even after the national introduction of the CoronaMelder, the minister keeps the direction tight. From the time of the national introduction, the cabinet should monitor and evaluate, and ensure that there are appropriate emergency braking procedures if it appears that the CoronaMelder has unexpected undesirable behavioural effects for users, the GGDs, source and contact research or employers and entrepreneurs. We've all discussed it here. A CoronaMelder that meets the strict technical and privacy conditions must be used to do what is necessary against the coronavirus, but we must avoid using a twenty-first century instrument to monitor and evaluate it with a twentieth-century instrument. So an important part of the minister's work begins as soon as the launch is complete. I'd like a response from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u57	Thank you, Mr. Middendorp. Mrs Buitenweg has the floor on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u58	Thank you, Madam President. It may be a little unexpected, but I'd like to start by complimenting you. At the beginning of this process there was a lot of confusion. We knew there was a problem, namely the spread of the coronavirus, and we also saw a minister who was very motivated to at least find a part of the solution digitally. But on how exactly the app needed to fit into the test policy and what the privacy requirements were, it was still incredibly unclear when he took his firm position. The fact that the app seems to have been put together without central storage and open source to a large extent is worth a compliment. That is also a compliment that goes to organizations such as the Rathenau Institute, Waag, techjournalists, companies, hackers and all the other people who have worked for this, but of course also to the minister who was willing to take advantage of these efforts. In the law before us, the abuse clause is a crucial element. Mr Van der Staaij has already said it, and that is how I see it. I note that there are amendments to tighten that provision, and that seems to me to be a good thing. Don't download the app should never be used against you. It is important to regulate that legally, not only because everyone has the right not to download this app, but also because not everyone can download the app; not every phone is suitable for it and not everyone can afford a smartphone or operate it properly. The advantage of people with this app is therefore unacceptable because it will lead to greater social inequality. I have just seen the Minister look at the debate on the directive. I wonder what's going on with the government itself. Is it possible for the LCI Directive to include a different instruction for people who receive a notification via the app showing that they have been in contact with someone who has been infected with corona, than with people who are informed through the regular source and contact research? So my question is not whether this distinction is made now, but whether it is theoretically possible for this distinction to be made through that directive. Then the perspective of action. What are people supposed to do when they receive an app that they've been in contact with someone who was corona contaminated? Is it true that the instruction will then be that they will be asked to stay at home for ten days and not to leave the door? Is this request completely identical to those who have been found to have been infected via source and contact research? I wonder if there is a difference. From people who come forward from source and contact research, you know they've been really close. They've been talking to the corona-infected person, laughing, singing, kissing or whatever. At least the contact was memorable. But the app can also be about dining people at another table or sitting behind you on a ride on the train, in which people already wear a mouth cap. That reduces the risk of infection. Does the Minister think that the risk of infection of someone being alerted only through the app is less than the risk of infection of someone being designated through source and contact research? Anyway, no doubt more people will get a warning through this app. What will be the consequences of that? That's what I'm asking the Minister. What are the consequences on society, including the fact that, in my view, it will involve relatively many false positives? The Minister made it clear that the app is not instead of the source and contact research of the GGD, but that the app exists alongside that research. Does this mean that people who downloaded the app will in principle receive twice a warning: once via the GGD and once over the phone? Which brings me to the evaluation. When I look at the parameters, it mainly looks at things like how often the app has been downloaded and what people have done afterwards. But how does the Minister measure the added value compared to the source and contact research that is already taking place? So what's the added value? Is the question whether there are relatively many false positives in relation to what has already emerged from that source and contact research and what its impact has been on society? Due to privacy, a lot of data is unknown for the evaluation, but I have heard and read on Monday that all kinds of smart models will be developed to draw conclusions anyway. If all kinds of theoretical, smart models are being devised, is the Minister prepared to look at them now; so something he should have done at the beginning of the process, which is the added value of the solution he has now chosen in relation to other solutions, such as the additional intensification or the further development of source and contact research in a different way? Is it really true that every discovery through the app is by definition a cheer story, that you say: every discovery is one extra? Or are we going to turn that against how we could have done it in another way? After all, it is not about the Minister being able to say at the end: you see, I was right, there is added value. The point is that we learn from it whether this was indeed the best in relation to other options. Because that is what I found complicated in the course of the whole process: that in my view we have not looked sufficiently at the full breadth of the options and whether this solution is indeed the best solution. That may well be the case, but I do not think that we should necessarily stick such a digital patch. It is a typical pitfall: you see that there is a problem and you then have the wish that it is solved in this way. I want us to ask "Was this also the best direction or were there other directions we could have taken?" at the end, so in the evaluation, answer. Then test it. I imagine if you find out you might be infected, you'd want to know as soon as possible and have a test run. But you can't. You can't do that unless you have complaints.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u59	It may be the opposite of what just happened when I was standing behind the chair, but I have a question for Mrs Buitenweg. What does she see as the added value of that app, of the CoronaMelder?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u60	I see pros and cons. One advantage is that you are told that you may have been in contact with an infected person and that you also think: then I will stay home and work at home. Then you'll check extra carefully if you might have throat pain and get tested faster than you might otherwise have done. I see that as two advantages. It'll make it easier to track down. One disadvantage is that you keep quite a lot of people at home for ten days, without any complaints. That has quite an impact. I call a teacher in the classroom, someone in the care. That has a huge impact on society. There are also a lot of false positives. I would also like to mention the enormous pressure that this puts on the test capacity. And I'll get to that: I'm really worried that we're not equipped for that at all. Well, I see some bears on the road.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u61	Does Mrs Buitenweg perhaps agree with me that the question of added value is an important question, but that it is not easy to answer when it comes to deciding on the use of the CoronaMelder? May I ask Mrs Buitenweg the following? Shouldn't you see what the potential benefits are? She mentioned it. And how do we prevent those disadvantages? We have talked extensively about the disadvantages and, of course, I can see them. Shouldn't you, just in the assessment of whether you're going to fight the virus with this digital drug, separate those two? Then you should not try to come to the question of what the added value of this is and whether there might be an alternative somewhere that we could also use.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u62	This is exactly what I object to. Then it is said: okay, we have the CoronaMelder; there are advantages to that and then we try to mitigate the disadvantages. My point is: if you as a government make a decision and we move in a certain direction, then you should also look at different options? Then you should see if this is indeed the best option. We haven't looked at those multiple options. It was said right away: oh, keeping a diary is bullshit, because you don't know who's in the O.V. Then I wonder how many reports will come out of the O.V., because most people sit at a distance from each other, with a mouth cap on them. That's all things we haven't looked at. It was just said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So that's pre-sorting on something that I don't know if it's wise. A lot of cases will already be picked up in the source and contact investigation. Do we have a picture of how many additional contacts are identified via the CoronaMelder where they are really infected? Or do you get relatively many false positives there? These are all things that have not been discussed at all, because we are only looking at the introduction of the CoronaMelder. We're gonna use that CoronaMelder and then we're gonna try to take the downsides a little bit, without asking the fundamental question: is this really the best tool for what we're trying to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u63	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u64	There has actually been a lot of talk about testing. At this point, I agree with a great many of my colleagues. One of the added value I would like to come back to is indeed that people will be more willing, at least, to be tested. They might want that even if they don't have any complaints, but especially if they have a few coughs, they're more willing to get tested. What does that mean for capacity? If that is a real big added value, so much more people will be tested. A lot of questions were asked in the written round. I should like to say to the Minister, through the President-in-Office, that, given the answers to the written questions, there is a great deal to be done to ensure, above all, that the Minister cannot be put in trouble and that little real statement is made. I think that virtually all of us here have asked what the Minister's expectations are of the increase in the capacity of the GDPs. How many more tests will it take? Every time it is said: according to the calculation, the minimum increase is 0.2%. But that wasn't the question. The question was not what the minimum increase was. Everyone asks what the Minister's assessment is. What's he taking into account? Is that what the G.D.D.s are equipped for? I would like an answer to that. Finally, Madam President. Last Monday, colleague Van der Graaf asked a very good question about the earning model of Google and Apple. According to the Ministry, there's altruism. That is of course very good news, because that underlines Rutger Bregman's point that most people are good. But in case the top people of these companies are not entirely "most people," I say: it may also be that they hope to grow a lot of goodwill with this, at best. The European Commission and others are currently trying to limit the power of these large companies, their monopoly position, their abuse of power and their tax evasion. I hope that the positive approach taken by the Ministry in setting up Google and Apple will not prevent the Dutch government from supporting the European Commission very strongly in ensuring that these tech companies are restrained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u65	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I now give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Almost everything has been said. I'm gonna give myself a quick summary and I'm gonna make some more distinctive points. Then I will bring forward my final judgment on this law. The law is actually just right, because the law regulates two things that the Chamber considers important in full terms, namely a legal basis, as advised by the Personal Data Authority, and the impossibility of obliging the app for people. If you do, it'll be punished. That makes sense. The app itself is of course far from complaints-free. Everyone actually said something about that. But that is not the Minister's fault, because this app is mainly limited because it is a particular technology that you are going to use. Then you run into a number of things that you will always have to deal with in this kind of digital technologies. So it is very sensible that, according to this law, we let everyone personally consider whether or not they want to use this app. In fact, it comes down to the following. Mr Van der Staaij said: it is research noise. I heard the term "cumulative uncertainty." The technical limitations have been mentioned and the additional information the app provides and what you do with them. That's what Mrs Buitenweg was talking about. In the end, of course, the question is: what do you do with the information that the app provides? You can decide as a person that you do not want that information, as you can also decide not to read a particular newspaper or not to take other information. You can also say: I want that information, because it is an additional source of information for me, which I can use to adjust my behavior, for example, or to check whether or not I want to be tested. So I think it will eventually be the case that we still have a lot to talk about this app. It has to prove whether the app works out in a certain way, whether enough people use it or whether it doesn't create too much uncertainty. But the law we're discussing today is actually a very good basis for starting this app. In that sense, as far as I am concerned, we can keep the debate on the law very brief. I thought that the comments made on this subject, including those made by Mr Van der Staaij, but also by others, were simply good. Try to make it as sharp as possible that it doesn't become mandatory. That is a very important aspect. Then make sure that everyone can work with that app themselves. There are still a few things I would like to put forward. We have been dealing with this app for five months now. It started out a bit impetuous; you can also call it chaotic. I think I've mentioned it in a hurry. This also has to do with the type of crisis we are dealing with. I shouldn't go on about that too long. However, I agree with Mrs Buitenweg that it is worth complimenting the Minister, the government, in contact with so many experts, scientists and people who really know it, for taking real steps to change things in relation to the original plan. That's worth a big compliment, because at this time it's not something you get a great deal of appreciation for changing plans, fixing mistakes and repairing roads. I think that appreciation is appropriate. I have said things myself, and I have been critical myself. I was shocked when I saw the press conference and thought, "An app, what the hell?" I also thought it might be mandatory. Where we stand today compared to five months ago shows that policy is dynamic. I think this is very good. That is also the type of policy that the cabinet has always said: this is how we want to tackle this corona crisis. The open way in which ICT has now been moved forward is good. The same applies to the disclosure of the source code and the way in which all kinds of people are involved. That is also something that we, as a government, must stick to in the future. That's what I want to say. The privacy is now well arranged. I have just told Mr Middendorp not to promote it. I am absolutely not in favour of that. In my opinion, that is a form of coercion that we should not go through. The goal-binding of the SGP is, of course, a very important general principle in the collection of data. I hope that will be well maintained. I also agree with those who have tabled an amendment to narrow down the wording in relation to the anti-abuse clause. I think we are going to look at this amendment with great interest. Then I have a few points on data security, cyber security and bogus security. I think that is the three points we are most concerned with right now. What are the exact agreements with Google and Apple, I ask the Minister. What does the fact that these companies continue to develop their functionality, exposure notification framework? What does that mean for the way in which we monitor that data doesn't stick with those tech companies? I must tell you, Mr President, trust is a great asset. Trusting these companies hasn't always been my line, but I don't feel like they're now in the middle of this corona crisis collecting all kinds of data from innocent citizens. But we have to keep an eye on it, because they too sometimes tend to move in a little more than they might like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u67	Mr Middendorp has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u68	Mr Verhoeven just summarized the little debate on the interruption: Mr Middendorp said not to promote it, or the opposite. That seems to me to be a very great simplification, because I said to Mr Verhoeven that we are the basis of that law... That's why we're here, to capture that volunteer. But if Mr Verhoeven says so simply "do not promote," does he mean that, for example, the government should not promote the use of this app?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u69	No, I think it is obvious that the government should promote the use of this app, and precisely because the government is doing it, employers, restaurant owners, zoo operators and soccer trainers should not do so. Let one organization, namely the organisation that has worked hard on this app over the past few months, which is now promoting and let the rest of the Netherlands ensure that there is maximum freedom to download or not download that app. That was the thrust of my interruption, and that is what I am repeating here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u70	Okay. Finally, Mr Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u71	That is a nice broadening of the simplification you just put in there. I notice I said "help promote." But the question is a little broader, Mr President, finally. I hear Mr Verhoeven saying: the law is there, at work. In his summary, however, he forgot a point brought up by the undersigned, namely: the law is there, the CoronaMelder arrives when that law arrives, but then a very large part of the work only begins. I was a little surprised that Mr Verhoeven did not pay attention to this, because I also know him as a keen observer of what could go wrong with new technologies, with ICT and with the government. I therefore hope that I will find Mr Verhoeven by my side when we say to the Minister: make sure you are very focused on what is about to happen in that digital world with all these reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u72	Yeah, right point. I was not going to say it until later, but since Mr Middendorp is so on my mind, I will give him a preliminary notice. D66 supports the law, but follows the app critically, so I just wrote here. We're following that app critically. We see all those points that have been raised here as serious points that could undermine the added value of the app and which could even lead to the consideration that it might be better not to have an app. I do not rule that out, but for the time being I think that we should work in the Netherlands on the basis of the law we have now, and of course we will continue to follow the technique and the app. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u73	I think I just heard Mr Verhoeven say that Google and Apple will not intend to abuse this app, as I would call it, and "we're going to keep an eye on it." I only find it difficult to keep a close eye on this kind of mega companies, which can always keep a closer eye on everything than we do. So far, we have understood that it would only be about the signing of user conditions. Does Mr Verhoeven agree with the Animal Party that this would not be enough, given the situation we are in and given that we know that it has been abused in the past?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u74	Look, D66 has always, through me, made critical noises about and even had a rather suspicious look at the data power of these companies. On the other hand, during the round tables we held in April, some of the experts also pointed out the benefits of the functionality of Google and Apple. We should not close our eyes to that. They ensure reliable decentralised storage, as opposed to some of the designers who would work with central storage. We'd be farther from home. The developers of DP3T have also said that, in addition to what they had already devised, they have come together with Google and Apple to a sort of maximum form on the basis of which they are now working in almost all countries in Europe. For me, that's an important fact. The quality and reliability of these companies and the range via their phones... they do not make the app, but the functionality that makes the app possible.... make me feel that they will not immediately remove all kinds of data. But I've actually already asked the question you're asking. What exactly is the deal with these companies? Another question is: what do we do if they develop their functionality and how do we follow it as a government?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u75	You're getting all the positives right away. I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u76	Yes. That's kind of my character, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u77	That is very good, but perhaps I always bring up the other points. I still have doubts as to whether only a user condition is sufficient. I would also like to ask a question which we have gone a little less into. With the personal data I can imagine it well. We have that well defined in this app. Only, it's not just about the personal data. It's also about how that app works and how you can use or not to use such an app for profile building, which is indeed done by Google and Apple. So I'm going to stick with it: I think you're a good person, but I think we really need to realize here that such an app can really be used, including by other companies, in a way that we absolutely don't want and that only a user condition is not enough. I would really like to see a little more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u78	I agree. On this point, I will answer your question by asking the Minister to go back to that point. I share your concern, and I want to avoid the same thing as you, so there is no misunderstanding about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u79	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u80	Yes, for the sake of shortness, Mr. Chairman. Then the 1.1 million downloads. Indeed, if the app is deleted, we won't see it again. I am positive about that in itself, because that also says something about the fact that you really have the app for yourself. It does give a slightly less good view of the total group of people who use it. Can we not do something, I ask the Minister, for a reward program for people who still find faults in the code? I have already asked for this in the technical briefing. It's called a bugbounty program. This means that you encourage people to look for mistakes in the software and then deliver them, so that it gets better. It's some kind of reward program. I'd really like to consider that. So that's a question for the Minister. The most important point for now is the research noise. I have been thinking about this myself and I think it is a very difficult point. We actually have three false security issues. The first is, of course, the problem of accuracy and false measurements. Mr Hijink mentioned this, but also the Party for Animals: 30% outside 1.5 meters and 10% even outside 3 meters, up to 10 meters. That is, of course, an inevitability, because that is inherent in the technique you use. And we've all used that technique for a long time as the leading technique. But I think it gives the following scenario: I want a response from the Minister. I think that's gonna get us three groups of people. One. The people who don't download the app. They're right outside all the information noise. Two. The group of people who do download the app and actually follow all the prescribed guidelines completely, without any doubt. So they're going to quarantine for ten days and they're not going to work, even though they may feel like it's overstated. But there will also be a third group. I would like to summarize that group as the creative accountants. That may be a little more negative than intended, but I would like to put it this way. Those who will interpret the results. Those who are going to put it into perspective that they are getting a report because they think 'yes, but that is perhaps because I am one of the 10% that has stayed outside of 3 meters'. These are people who may have an important appointment or think "well, maybe not." In other words, these are people who find it difficult to fully comply with a notification of the app as the guidelines mean. I would therefore like to know from the Minister what other countries that have preceded us do with this effect, namely the fact that people themselves are going to interpret whether or not they have been put at risk. Limit two is: too little test capacity. That point was made by almost everyone. Indeed, you could say that there are two signals at the moment. Signal one is your body: I feel sick or not. Signal two is the app: I get or don't get a call. If your body doesn't report and the app does, then you will indeed come to that point of complaints-free testing that many people have talked about. Then, of course, the added value of the app is limited if complaints-free testing is not possible for too long. So I would really like to know from the Minister how we are going to do that complaints-free testing on the basis of an app notification. I think Mrs Sazias and others are right to say that otherwise the added value of the app is a little lower, although you can still say that he gives information about behaviour and a sense of awareness. So I'd like to get an answer to that, too. The third point, which I have just mentioned, is the limitation of the number of removers. If we don't know that number of removers, we don't know exactly how big the group of users is. The size of the group of users is again very important for the effectiveness of the app. There is also a limitation. However, there are three limitations which, as far as I am concerned, are acceptable at the level we are talking about, namely that everyone can decide for themselves whether or not these restrictions provide certain information. However, it must be clear that these restrictions exist and people really must be able to make the choice voluntarily. I think this is the most important point for now. We have tabled an amendment together with the Christian Union. That just came in. The Christian Union and D66 consider that the non-redirectability of the use of the app should be regulated by law. There are two keys that are, as it were, combined and this results in a certain traceability. In fact, non-redirectability is now guaranteed at a lower written level. I would ask the Minister to respond to the amendment to really lay down in the law that there is no traceability if the app is used. Finally, Mr President. According to D66, the law is therefore necessary and sufficient. He'll do whatever it takes. We'll support the law. As I have already said to Mr Middendorp, the app has inescapable technical limitations. We have to accept it. On the basis of this acceptance, every person in the Netherlands should be given the opportunity to use the app or not. One can see what information he or she gets with it to fight the virus better than would be possible without an app. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u81	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. You had a lot to ask, but you saved us five minutes. I love that. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the launch of the app, everyone was undivided critical. I think that was because the app came out of a box like a devil. Occasionally I called it the mirrors and beads that look attractive to the eye but on which insufficient thought has yet to be given. Not enough thought has been given to how this should look and how it should land. Work has been incredibly hard in the last few months. We see that this app has taken great steps on a number of fronts. It's become open source. All kinds of parties have worked hard to better safeguard privacy. The volunteer's been taken care of. At the same time, a number of questions remain. Part of it will be a repetition of what has already been said here, but it is important. It is a live app that will have to be evaluated and evaluated. First of all, about privacy. No matter how you turn it or turn it around, when you go with market players who are basically datars, like Google and Facebook, it stays exciting. My first question to the Minister is therefore what exactly have been agreed. How do we ensure that European legislation continues to apply and that we do not end up in an American barrel through a back door? It may seem like an open door, but I want to ask that question anyway. How do we deal with unexpected violations, data leaks or hacking? It is a standing practice that a hack is solved before it is reported. That could create a tension field. How do we deal with such situations? I assume that there will be an active duty of information from the cabinet to the Chamber and that we do not need to hear it through the media or other channels. I'd like a response from the Minister. That's the point of privacy. The second point concerns use. It has always been said that such an app will only come if it is useful and necessary. That was true from the beginning. The roundtables showed that a first requirement was that about 60% of the Dutch had to download the app. Then the app would be useful. Now, according to Austria's research, 10% is sufficient. Is this only from the Austrian research or do we have any more indications? This is a very different level of coverage than was originally assumed. What hole is in there? Do we have any other sources to confirm that the app is doing what it's supposed to do? Others have also asked questions about this. I think that the next point is a very critical one. I'm just gonna move myself into a user of the app. Suppose I downloaded the app and got a report that I've been within 15 minutes of a corona-infected person, maybe even in a confined space. Then I call the GGD, and they say there: yes, but you have no complaints yet, so you can't be tested. That doesn't feel okay. We're in the test phase now, but we know there's not enough capacity. So we also know those people aren't gonna be tested if they don't have any complaints. Then what does that do with the support? What does that do to people's insecurity? And then how do we deal with all these corona obligations or not? Apart from technical and privacy issues, I really think this is the biggest flaw in that app. Because you can deal with everything technically, but not people's behavior and expectations. Especially since we still have to wait for the advice, especially because we know that there is already too little test capacity, I think this is a big, big concern. I'm also really curious about the Minister's views on this. This can once again constitute a major undermining of the basis of support. A second concern is the following. Suppose someone belongs to a risk group or a certain group that we consider very important. So let's say someone's a teacher or he's got another vital profession. Then it is still true that he can only be tested after day seven. That is the current practice in the test phase. Is that going to be the practice? And do we have any guarantees that it will be possible to test within 24 hours? 'Cause if you don't, it's gonna stretch up a lot and people are stuck with those ten days. I say again: I am not asking for anything new here. These are questions that have also been asked by all the other colleagues. But in my view it is the two main points of the debate. This is also going to come back this afternoon, during the wider Corona debate. This stays the crux every time. Each time we encounter the same problem, in discussions about test streets, about vital professions, about source and contact research. We see these questions again with this app. In short, I want to be positive, but this is my main concern. My final point concerns compulsion and urge. I think the point of coercion is a good deal to deal with. Mr Hijink has tabled another amendment to see whether we can overcome the urge a little better. We will support that amendment. But at the same time, I'm the most concerned about the moral urge that can arise. I call the employer who says in a magazine: "Oh, have you signed up for the corona app yet?" I would like to mention colleagues who are going to question each other about that. I call a GGD that has to make complicated choices: who can or cannot be tested? That app can then still play a role in prioritizing. Who gets tested and who doesn't? With that, the app is no longer non-binding and urges become in a sneaky way coercion. I'm really worried about that. I would like to hear a response from the Minister on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u83	I totally agree with Mrs. Chicken. But she also said, like Mr Van der Staaij: I would like to be positive, but this debate is about the law and we also have all kinds of other questions, about imitation, capacity. Those are all legitimate questions that play. But then at the end of her input, Mrs. Kuiken came back with that compulsion. And that's what the law says now. Then it would make more sense to just say: we support the law and follow the app? That would make more sense than to say: we are going to look at other debates in order to consider whether or not to support this law. I do not quite understand that reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u84	And I don't quite understand this question, because I wasn't finished yet. I said: I think that the coercion in the legislation is fairly well regulated and I am concerned about the urge that may arise. I'm ready for my conclusion now, and I have a minute left for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u85	Then I am sorry that I asked this question too early, Mrs Kuik. I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u86	Good. Please continue, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u87	Mr. Chairman. There is no reason for me not to support the app on the basis of what has happened in recent months. I think he's enjoying the benefit of the doubt. The question is whether he'll eventually do what he has to do. And if there are any problems with privacy, the plug must of course be removed immediately. But I'll also make one final appeal to the Minister. Don't let this be a prestige object. Let's really take a critical look. Does the app do what it has to do? And if he doesn't do what he's supposed to do, you're gonna have to be willing to pull the plug, too. Once again, I see objections but I give him the benefit of the doubt and my group will support the app or, rather, the legislation to come to this app. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. Mr Kuzu has the floor on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u89	Mr. Chairman. It has now become the trademark of this minister: unclear and unclear communication and, as a result, unrest in society. We saw this in the discussion about the test capacity, which was supposed to be in order but not in order. He did the same with the capacity for the source and contact research. It would be up to date, but to this day the capacity is not up to date. He did so with the Corona Warfare Act, of which several versions were thrown over the fence in the Netherlands, while people were left in uncertainty. The app is again an unclear story that has caused a lot of unrest in the country. The Minister of VWS and Minister De Jonge are faced with doubts, blurryness and gloomyness. Mr. Chairman. In the beginning, this minister stared blindly at it: that corona app should be there. But then the Chamber pulled the brakes and had to have expert sessions. At that time, the target was not properly defined. That's when the technique didn't work. Then suddenly there were several versions that were tested. Back then, the privacy requirement didn't work out. Then suddenly there was a version that was tested in five regions. Then it had to be settled in the corona law. Then I didn't. And now there's a special emergency bill for the app. Hardly anyone in the country actually understands what's going on. My first question to the Minister is therefore: does he not regret the lack of clarity and the lack of clarity? Couldn't he have handled this much better? The Minister promised time and again that the Corona app would only be introduced if the Dutch Data Protection Authority issued a positive opinion? But isn't it true that the Minister didn't wait at all for the opinion of the Personal Data Authority and that he just rolled out the app? Mr. Chairman. Anyway, the route here doesn't deserve the beauty prize. But now we're talking about the emergency law for the corona app. DENK sees that there are major concerns in society when it comes to the corona app. People say they're worried about what happens to their data. Are their privacy-sensitive data gonna be out on the street all of a sudden? Are they going to be in the hands of the big tech companies, the government or other governments? The Dutch Data Protection Authority also shares this concern. It indicates that it is not clear whether the American tech giants are getting access to data from users and what happens with it. These are health data: very sensitive data from a lot of people. We need to make sure that that data doesn't end up with Apple or Google. In an interview, the Chairman of the Personal Data Authority states: the Minister says this is not happening because Apple and Google promise. That's too skinny for us. Do we really have to take these companies in their blue eyes? The central question for DENK is therefore: does this minister believe Apple and Google, or is he going to build real safeguards into the law to make sure that the data is not being used improperly? Mr. Chairman. The Minister states that he has responded to this concern in two ways. First, by prohibiting data processing by Google and Apple in the law. But the law does not literally prohibit software providers from using the data for their own purposes. It merely states that the data may only be used to combat corona. Isn't that too general? Why not literally prohibit software providers from processing data, as proposed by the Chair of the Personal Data Authority? Secondly, this minister states that this is settled by making written agreements with Google and Apple. My question to the Minister is: may I see this, can you share this with the Chamber? I would like to know exactly what that says. How much assurance do these agreements give the Dutchman that his or her data will be handled carefully? The Dutch Data Protection Authority also comes with the concern that the backend server must comply with the GDPR conditions. My question is which organization fulfils the task of the backend server. How is it ensured that it meets all GDPR standards? Another concern that people have is what is being done with their data and what purposes it serves. The source and contact research is freely formulated in the law. This could lead to the app data being used for everything. Can the GGDs point users of the app to go into home quarantine? Or is it the intention that the G.D.D.s will monitor people with the virus? Or is the app used as an information source to impose possible regional lockdowns? In fact, can the Minister rule out police and enforcement and intelligence services accessing the corona app, for whatever purpose? Can the Minister guarantee that the app will not be used to maintain the 1.5 meter? What is the Minister's view of an explicit prohibition in law that the corona app is not used by the police and intelligence services? In short, can the Minister take away the concerns of the people in the country that anything can happen to their data? Mr. Chairman. There are also points that DENK is satisfied with. DENK is satisfied that, according to the Dutch Data Protection Authority, the app itself complies with the privacy requirements. DENK is also pleased that the bill explicitly states that it is forbidden to require another person to use a notification application or any other similar digital means. It is good that this has been included in the explanatory statement in even stronger terms. According to DENK, there should never be an obligation of the app. Can the Minister guarantee that we will never go there, not even in the future? Mr. Chairman. Then the term of the law. It can be renewed by royal decree for two months at any time. For DENK, however, it must be clear on the basis of which criteria it is decided whether or not to extend the law. We read that the use will be terminated if the corona app proves to be insufficiently effective. However, when does the government consider that there is insufficient effectiveness? We also read that evaluation will be carried out in accordance with a pre-established evaluation protocol. What does this protocol look like? If it's not there, when will we get it? Why is the evaluation not simply a proper obligation laid down in the law and is it not properly laid down that this is to be done with every possible extension of the law? Another concern is whether the Minister has sufficient capacity to monitor the security of the app. The Minister can no longer afford to tell the Chamber via the media that there is underemployment. Can the Minister guarantee that there is sufficient manpower to manage the application and ensure security? Mr. Chairman. In summary, DENK is critical of the corona-appwet when it comes to the security of Dutch data. There are a lot of concerns in the country about the security of the data collected and about what can happen to that data. Although an app can help fight corona, the Minister must give firm guarantees that the data of Dutch people are in good hands. Otherwise, DENK cannot agree to this. Open and transparent communication is an important condition for the support of the cabinet's corona measures. Over the past period, we have clearly seen that the level of support can sink to a low point as a result of unclear and confused communication. That is why I ask the Minister not to hide behind unbelievable terms such as 'rolling insight' or 'with the knowledge of today'. During this debate, I ask him to communicate openly and honestly about what the cabinet is going to do with the information that the app is going to provide. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u90	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of FvD. I'm gonna cut that short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u91	I have seen many stupid ideas come along here in the Chamber over the past few years, but this Corona app is still the crown. This is one of the most crazy plans I've seen coming along in the last few years. First of all, because of the simple statistical data that you need about 60% of the population participating in it in order to give it any statistical relevance at all. That's supposed to be more than that, of course. Actually, you're gonna have to have 80% or something that's in on it. And then all these people need to know if they have corona or not. So you should constantly test everyone, because we now know that you can also have the disease or the flu virus without having any symptoms and that you can be contagious. So you have to test people all the time. The people who have been tested should also fill all this in the app. I know from my bachelor period that when people have STDs or something, they'd rather not fill it in in all kinds of apps. It's an absurd idea. This is never gonna work. The percentage of people who even have an iPhone in the Netherlands and who are going to install it and so on... That's not gonna happen at all. People must have been on it all the time. Then the point how it would function if it were then installed. That's one big joke, of course. The distance. There have been attempts to determine with bluetooth at which distance someone has been, but that is very imprecise. Especially outside there are often no reference points; bluetooth reacts to reference points to measure how large the distance is about to someone. So you can't measure that accurately. It may be that you've been 10 meters away from someone, but there were two walls in between. All that stuff, no one knows. And yet that thing goes off. In addition to the fifteen minutes. There was a French president, Jacques Chirac, known as "monsieur dixminutes, douche comprise." Within ten minutes he had done the job with his mistresses and had already been in the shower. That was very intimate contact. That would have been less than fifteen minutes and therefore not indicated on the CoronaMelder, while at such a time a possible infection could have been transmitted. So the intensity isn't measured. By Maurice de Hond we know comrade Van Haga said that even though the ventilation of a room is extremely important. For example, you can stand in a church at a relatively large distance from each other, perhaps more than 10 or 15 meters, something that bluetooth doesn't measure and yet get infected because the space is poorly ventilated. That while you can also be very close to someone, for example in the outdoors, where it is very well ventilated, without risk. That doesn't measure the app either. So for that reason, too, it is again a completely nonsense idea. Then, of course, we have the privacy issues. The danger of it being hacked is not imaginary. Actually, every IT project that the government touches failed. This is due, among other things, to the party cartel-like structure of works. I remember when we did the Ukraine referendum, the online part was done by someone who, like Wim Kok, tried to serve television with his mouse. He'd never worked with a computer before! But he had to run that Facebook campaign to do the pre-campaign for the Ukraine referendum. That's how people work. I wouldn't like to be in the shoes of Hugo de Jonge, but I think almost no one in the Netherlands would like to be in their shoes. 'Cause they're really ugly shoes. But this is a government project that I absolutely wouldn't trust the government. I don't think anyone who's serious would want to entrust that to the government. And neither is Apple and Google. Because if we have seen one thing recently, it is that they are extending their mandate. Google, Facebook, Apple and all those big social media companies are heading towards politics. They can hardly limit their role to merely facilitating. I just don't trust them. I don't want that on my phone. I don't want that in my system. Finally, zooming out: what exactly is going on here? Apart from the fact that this is a completely absurd and ridiculous idea, there is no crisis at all. I am quite willing to think about very radical measures that restrict my life, my privacy and so on when people spontaneously die on the streets, when there is a real national health crisis and when everyone is sick at home. But that is not the case at all! Statistically, corona is just over. Almost no one's sick anymore. Fortunately, it turns out to be far less dangerous than we thought at first. Six months ago, I thought so, too. I thought, "What's coming for us?" I was in favour of a short lockdown, although about two months earlier than this sleeping cabinet. I had already called two months before for hospital beds, mouth caps and so on to be purchased and prepared. Instead, this cabinet sent those mouth caps to China for free, after which we were allowed to buy them back two months later. All those things were realistic six months ago, because we didn't know what was happening. We saw images from Italy, we saw aerial photographs of crematoria in China and so on. Sure, then we thought, guys, what's going on? But now we know that the situation is very different. Corona is only a threat to a very limited group of people with a combination of underlying symptoms: obesity, heart failure, diabetes, you name it, some things. Then you have a risk, so we have to make sure that we give those people the opportunity to stay in isolation, if they want to. But if they choose to say "okay, I've had a nice life, I'm 87, I'm 92, I'd rather see my kids twice a week and risk being in a Hugo de Jongequarantine for six or seven months," then you should also give those people that freedom. We'll just have to offer that. We can offer them options to shop at a certain time, for example, and that there will be few other people, or other things. We can all do that, and that's fine. But you really need to stop holding the whole society captive, destroy the whole economy, trample our freedoms and spend millions on an absurd, really absurd app that's never gonna work. That's what you can see from a kilometer away to control this flu virus, because that's what it is; it's a vicious flu virus, which is no longer a problem, fortunately trying to control it, which is not gonna happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u92	Thank you. That was Mr Van Haga, who clapped for Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u93	It was drum roll.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u94	Oh, it was drum roll, okay. I now give the floor to Mr Jansen, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had the same dilemma as Mr Verhoeven: I saw the list, the 12th speaker, and this morning I was very strict about my text. I hope that this will make me have fewer duplications than some of the other speakers today. Mr. Chairman. We are talking here about a temporary law designed to provide safeguards against the abuse of the so-called 'corona notification' app. This app, the CoronaMelder, has to track down more infected people with the coronavirus, with the ultimate aim of curbing and controlling the pandemic; a task that is now being carried out by the GGDs. The first question raised by the PVV Group is therefore: should this app address the capacity problems of the GGDs, or is it an addition to the source and contact research, or a combination, or are there any other options to come up with? The image that has emerged in the past period is that of a minister playing with an app. But shouldn't this minister first make sure that everything is in order? Things he's said time and time again to settle, but which haven't turned up at all? Enough protection for all those heroes in the care, who helped and cared for our elderly and vulnerable, and who had to do so unprotected for months? Enough test materials, sufficient test capacity? Everything's still a drama. If the source and contact research at the GGD is in order, then the app is only a supplement. And if our test capacity is in order, we don't need to use German laboratories either. And now it seems that these apps are going to lead to an increase in people who need to be tested, while testing capacity is still a problem. I'd like a response to that. There are also some questions in substance. During the test of the app it was discovered that there was a margin of error of 10%: 10% of the notified persons in the pilot were at a distance of 3 to 10 metres from a possible infectious source. So these people were wrongly reported, with all the consequences. The advice is to go into home quarantine for seven days and make an appointment for a test. This causes some resentment among the GGD's, because they are totally not set up in their working methods on appointments in seven days. And what are the expectations around that margin of error when the app is downloaded millions of times? In addition, it turns out that some phones do not automatically notify; you first have to start the app on a daily basis. So there's definitely room for improvement in the app. And then there's another thing. In Ireland, the app was downloaded 1.3 million times in the first week. Fine grades, but since the introduction, the app has been removed 500,000 times. Half a million times the app has been removed from a total population of 4.3 million. During last Monday's technical explanation it was said that they can't see that here, removing the app. Is the Minister not afraid that a similar development can also take place in the Netherlands, and is there still effectiveness? Because when this app is downloaded several million times but is removed in large numbers, are we not below the critical limit of 10%, 20%, 60% or whatever it is, but at any rate too low? And is the effectiveness really no longer measurable? Mr. Chairman. The PVV group has an advice to this minister: first do your homework very well. As long as so many things are not in order, the deployment of the app is not appropriate. Come back to us in six months. Then we look seriously at the possibilities. But now, while so many things are not in order, my group will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u96	Thank you, Mr. Jansen. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Given everything that's been said, I don't think I'm gonna finish my ten minutes. To keep the virus under control and to kick it out as much as possible, it is natural that we also look at digital means in 2020 and that we all keep our distance agreements as best we can, avoid crowds, stay at home in case of complaints and have you tested as soon as possible. Because quick testing with fast results and the source and contact research are essential pillars to control the virus. Mr. Chairman. With the source and contact research we can increase the dikes. Again, digital support cannot replace that, but can further support that. We can reach more people and we can reach people faster. The app warns if within two weeks you have been in the vicinity of someone with an infection for 15 minutes. As colleagues have said, if 10% to 15% of people use the app, this can help to prevent spread. The CDA therefore supports the development of the app and strongly supports today's bill. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate you on this, and we cannot always do so, with every law, for the transparent development that has taken place here. It may have started a bit of bumpy, but a lot of work has been done, with a lot of advisors, knowledge institutions and hackers. Everyone's been working on it. The reports we have received also show a great deal of transparency. And what personally did me good is that there has been a lot of attention to user-friendliness for people who are visually restricted and people with other disabilities. That has been looked at very consciously. Congratulations to the staff of the Ministry, who answered 288 questions within a few days. Mr. Chairman. We are reassured that the CoronaMelder is a privacy friendly app. It is also good to see that a similar app has been developed in so many countries in Europe. Appointments have been made with Apple and Google. I asked questions about this in the technical briefing. Most of them have been answered now, but I still have a few questions left. First, on Android devices bluetooth is not currently seen as part of the location settings. That's why Google still requests permission to turn on the location determination on those devices. In response to our questions, the Minister said that Google is going to change this in a next update. Can the Minister indicate when this is about to be modified? Can the national roll-out of the app also take place if this has not yet been modified? Mr. Chairman. And then interoperability, i.e. our ability to exchange data with other countries within the European Union with the same system. Mrs Sazias also asked a question about this. We have tabled an amendment to that effect. I would like to emphasise that we are talking about countries within the European Union, not outside it, and countries with the same system. We understand that this is still being worked on by the European Commission, but it seemed to us a missed opportunity not to include in the law already now that if there are those possibilities, we can also work with them, all the more so since more than half of our provinces have borders. Germany just passed by and especially Belgium, which doesn't have an app like this. This is a temporary law for six months and can possibly be extended by two months each time. As far as we are concerned, extension is likely to be necessary, because the pandemic is not expected to be over within six months. Can the Minister indicate what objectives he intends to achieve within this period with the app and when it is sufficiently successful to be able to extend? What is realistic to expect within this period? Finally. It is good that there will be a comprehensive information campaign, because good communication on the purpose of the app, but also on what the app cannot and does not do, is essential in our view. Mr Middendorp of the VVD has already referred to a clearer framework, including for employers when it comes to information, for example as to whether all information other than that of the government should be seen as coercion. We think it is important that this is emphasised and clarified. The CoronaMelder does not replace the source and contact research because the traditional research remains. It is also important to strengthen each other and hopefully to eradicate the virus. We hope that a lot of Dutch people will download the app, because only together we can control corona. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u98	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u99	Thank you, Madam President. The announcement in spring that an app should be put in place has given rise to a lot of controversy. It led to many questions from my group, including the Corona debates, but above all to a lot of reactions from society, which I think the Minister has also noticed. It has also led to a lot of valuable input from many experts and scientists, many companies and civil society organisations. So there's been a high level of involvement in this government app. Also as a Chamber we have worked on it and we have had a conversation with experts. The Christian Union has indicated in previous debates that the following criteria are very important to us if we are to introduce such an app. I mention the temporaryity, not the central storage of data and the anonymity and voluntaryity that must be guaranteed. In addition, open source software must be in line with current privacy legislation. It is also important that not only commercial parties are involved, but also the independent scientific community, and that the guarantees are laid down by law. Now, five months later, there's an app downloaded over a million times. In addition, there is a proposal for a law that regulates that we will amend the Public Health Act and introduce the voluntary use of a notification application, which should support contact and source research and regulate that you should not abuse and not force anyone to install that app. These legal bases and safeguards are necessary and are also urgently advised by the Personal Data Authority, the Council of State, the Rathenau Institute and many other experts. On behalf of the Christian Union, too, I would like to express my appreciation to the Minister, his officials and everyone else he has worked with for transparency in the development and development of this app, because it is not always self-evident within the government or that this is going well, as Mr Middendorp pointed out in his contribution. Also in the comprehensive answer to our questions and the disclosure of the source code, I see that the cabinet has made efforts to remove concerns. By looking for cooperation with critics, a better application and strong legal guarantees have been achieved. But we must not ignore very fundamental questions. What exactly is the purpose of this app and what is its impact on our society? Isn't there too much focus on this technological application or has there really been a look at less radical alternatives? You can easily remove that app from your phone after the crisis, but that does not apply to the impact on society and the population. I would ask the Minister to reflect on this in this debate. In April it was the GGD who asked for an app to support their source and contact research. We have experienced that the GGD has put some pressure on this too. However, we have noticed, and colleagues have also pointed out in this debate, that the use of this app is likely to lead to many more test applications. We are already running into the limits of test capacity. This leads the Christian Union to the question of what would be an appropriate time for the actual introduction of this app. Should we not wait until we have everything in order when it comes to testing capacity and also when it comes to the issues of the accuracy of this app? Colleagues have just pointed this out several times in the debate, so I am not going to do that again. I'd like to know how the Minister looks at that. I would also like to know how this app relates to the regular source and contact research of the GGD. Mr. Chairman. It is good that there will be no central storage of data and that there will be open source. When did the effect of this app actually succeed? Can the Minister reflect on that? A big bottleneck in terms of range is that that application can't be downloaded on a lot of phones, for example because of the latest version of an operating system you need on your phone. That doesn't apply to one person. If you read the reviews in the appstore, there are a lot of people who just can't use this app. What can be done about that, I ask the Minister. Especially for a lot of older people, who we want to protect, the app is not accessible. I'd like a response. Older people are also vulnerable in another way. This week, phishing messages were already circulating in which criminals pose as the GGD in order to steal data from older people in particular. Does the Minister recognize these signals? How do you know it's actually the G.D.D. calling you? I'd like a response from the Minister. The following practical concern and question is what this app means for people who cannot work at home, because they work in care or education, for example, or because they are self-employed or perhaps the Minister of Health. Are they not overwhelmed with reports, and are they then to remain at home? This could have an impact on care capacity and on education. Can there still be teaching? How does the cabinet see the impact of app usage on this group? Wouldn't it lead to evasive behavior? Wouldn't it lead people to think: I'm not going to install that app anyway, because that only leads to difficult situations; then I have to spend another two weeks at home? I would also ask the Minister to give an insight into the costs that have been incurred to date for the development of this app. What expectations does he have about the total cost and has he insight into and can he share information about what it has already cost in other countries? We'd like to get a look at that. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to Google and Apple. These companies are involved in the development of the app. Many people wonder what is actually the earning model of these companies. What's that got to do with anything? Monday I asked if the government is paying Google and Apple to access their technology, but the answer was no. Then what is it? It seems that these parties have a great interest in building a very good reputation and goodwill, as has already been shared, even in this debate. They are very interested in this, because they work in other European countries as well. The Netherlands and the other European countries depend on the exposure notification framework and the operating system of Apple and Google for the development and application of this application. Together, these two companies have come up with the idea that only one app is created in each country. But that's what they're about, not the minister. The government didn't force it. Only Apple and Google can now also disable the framework regionally. The Christian Union believes that it is important to make agreements with these two companies to expand the framework for Dutch users at the time the Dutch government asks for it, if, for example, it is no longer necessary to support the source and contact research, or if there are other reasons. Therefore, the Christian Union considers it important to agree on who decides that the framework is needed in the Netherlands or not, who determines when that moment is there, what regional deactivation looks technical, what effect it has on users in the Netherlands and how it is communicated to users. Is this also being discussed at European level, if any? On Monday we got the answer in the technical briefing that it is not really necessary to make further arrangements with Google and Apple, but the Christian Union really looks at that differently. I'd like a response from the Minister to that. Google and Apple have also announced their desire to further develop their framework. That's always a good word for making changes. Any changes to the framework, as well as updates of Android and iOS operating systems, should be evaluated on the impact on the users of the app as far as the Christian Union is concerned. If this is justified, it will also have to lead to additional measures, the DPIA must be adapted and, in the extreme case, the app in such a situation can also be disabled. I ask the Minister: is the framework controlled by the government, is it closely monitored, and if there is reason to do so, can that app indeed be terminated? You would also wish that that technology would disappear completely from the phones, also to prevent Apple and Google from later having conceived another idea to express and use this surveillance technology for another purpose. I would like clarification from the Minister and, above all, guarantees, because there are many concerns about this issue among people. Mr. Chairman. Then the law itself. I am going to try to go through this briefly, because a number of points have already been made by other colleagues. I have tabled or co-tabled a number of amendments. Indeed, the Christian Union considers it very important that the principle of voluntaryity is respected. It is good that this anti-abuse clause has been included and that a ban has been introduced to oblige another to install that app. You can't do that. The explanatory statement also says that it goes a little further and can be interpreted a little more broadly, but I would very much like to strengthen that in this law on behalf of the Christian Union. That is why, together with the SP and the SGP, I have tabled an amendment to prevent people from being prevented from working or in public transport, church or other places. It's necessary to explicate that. The second amendment I have tabled is aimed at ensuring anonymity. We think we can do better than that. The Christian Union believes that there should be a ban on the traceability of data. The second opinion of the DPIA discusses the fact that agreements made by the Central Information Point Occupational and Health Care as implementing organisation do not guarantee the use of the data by the government for other purposes. Therefore, we need to establish by law that it is forbidden to link or have IP addresses linked to a user's temporal exposure keys. That's a unique key to the day from Apple and Google for your mobile. Such a ban can very well exist alongside the GDPR because the minister does not suddenly become a controller. I have tabled an amendment on this point together with Mr Verhoeven. So it must no longer be traceable, never be traceable to the user. Another amendment I have tabled is intended to emphasise the temporality of this law. Six months is now the proposal, but the Christian Union believes that this is too long a period. The development of the virus is unpredictable and also the operation and effect of this app and its associated law are that. It's a far-reaching choice. That requires that a weighing moment is regularly held in the Chamber. As far as we are concerned, this takes place every three months. It emphasizes the temporality of the app and of this law. I have tabled an amendment to that too. Mrs van den Berg has sufficiently explained the issue of border regions. I have the amendment to item No. 12 co-signed. In doing so, we also follow the recommendation of the Council of State. It is good to seek cooperation on this issue too. Finally, the next question. For the Christian Union, it is not yet sufficiently clear when the deployment of this app will be terminated. What tough but tangible criteria does the Ministry have for this? That is also a question that many people are asking us. So I'd like to put it to the Minister as well. I look forward to the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-3.u100	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
