ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the debate on the Urgenda case. I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee as the first speaker. Mr Van der Lee speaks on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am indeed very pleased that I am speaking on behalf of GroenLinks and again on the climate, which we have talked about many times this week. The reason is the well-known Urgendavonnis. This month it is really five years since the first sentence was pronounced. I also looked back at what was the CO reduction compared to 1990 in that year. It was 12%. We are now a few years away, but we are only at 18% when we should be at 25% by the end of the year. So we're not even halfway there yet. This brings me to a point of criticism that we have often talked about. I must say that, in the previous debate on Urgenda in this Chamber, the Minister also said, almost a year ago, a little shorter, in July, whether it was in a post-notary consultation after that: afterward, we can guarantee that we would have been better off in the past as well. I would ask him to reflect on that, also with a view to the future, when it comes to getting Urgenda. There is now an additional package. I welcome that in itself, but because of corona the uncertainty is whether this package is sufficient is very large. In the meantime, there is also a Climate Agreement with an ambition which we know is not enough. How are we going to ensure that we actually take this lesson seriously, that we take it more securely? I would like to hear from the Minister how he and his successors are going to do this differently, because there is a huge task ahead. At that time it was decided, not the package presented by the minister in April but the package before that, the coalition, or the government, also on the basis of PBL figures, thought: there is only a gap of 4 megatons. That turned out to be 9 megatons by the end of the year and what are the hard facts, according to the CBS figures? 16 megatons, four times the size of the task a year ago. So there is every reason, and that is what I ask the cabinet, to go into very specific questions in the climate note that comes after the KEV, about whether there is a gap in achieving the Urgenda goal. That's not just for this year, but it has to be structuralally reduced. It should also not be the case that in 2021, as a result of economic recovery, emissions are again higher than in 2020. How is the Minister going to ensure this and is he also prepared to put additional instruments in the climate note if it is highly probable that we are not going to meet the targets of the KEV? I'd like some clarity on that. When I look at the package that is now in place, the vast majority, 5 to 7 megatons, are completed by further reducing the production of electricity from coal and the mixing of biomass. I think that's a win. You know I want those power stations shut down even faster. I am also very curious to see how that trajectory is going. Are you negotiating? Is there going to be a tightening up of the existing coal law anyway? There is an important issue here. If you look at the way in which biomass is subsidised from the outset, with too high an uneconomic summit, plus the possibility of identifying 15% of other items as biomass than what we normally find biomass, then it is perhaps the case that these coal plants are now running on biomass subsidies. Because the business case of coal was so bad, even before corona and got even worse because all fossil fuels have fallen in price, I wonder if it is not really the time to just go through with it. Then we also have more certainty that we are going to get enough tonnes. I would like to return to a commitment given to me by the Minister, which I did not have time for yesterday. He was going to come up with a note or a piece showing how we are going to reduce the financial incentives for fossil step by step. That was supposed to be in the INEK, but it didn't work out. Before the summer, this note would come. I haven't seen him yet. Is he gonna be there? Yesterday we had a nice meeting in Nieuwspoort with a new heat coalition. A lot of parties are hoping for a Heat Act that is future-proof. Here too, the Minister promised me that before this new law comes into consultation he would come to the Chamber with a piece on how he intends to set up this Heat Act. I ask not only whether he wants to send that piece, but also whether he wants to deal with the concerns and ideas contained in the heat coalition manifesto. That would be an important wish for me. That brings me to the end of my speaking time and leaves me four seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u3	Then Mr Van Raan has a question for you, Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u4	That's a big win, Chairman, four seconds! A question to Mr Van der Lee about that biomass. He is right to say that some of these savings are being made on coal plants, and some of them are biomass. Now that is a saving with that biomass part that we know for sure is at least a paper saving, because biomass has been given a CO-neutral description which it probably doesn't have. We'll go that way. Certainly in the light of what he said, taking it for granted, I ask him whether he is also prepared to go with the Animal Party to ask the Minister, at least to approach that biomass section with caution, perhaps not to count.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u5	In the sums, I think it is working now that the emissions saved by turning back the production of coal-fired power stations are not included. So the saving is focused purely on the emissions of the coal section. The additional advantage is that if you shut down the power stations completely, you won't have anything left to catch up with. That's actually what I'd like. I've always turned against biomass in coal power plants. This also relieves the pressure on those other biomass activities. This biomass is still EUR 3.5 billion of authorised decisions and will then no longer be necessary. That's a profit in every way. I think we are totally united on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u6	Thank you, Mr. Van der Lee. Mr Sienot has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u7	Madam President. Of course, the first mission of the cabinet is now to fight the corona crisis. But the government also has to abide by court rulings. This package will help the economy and the climate. At the same time, we must continue to look ahead, because the corona crisis is reducing emissions, but the Urgendavonnis is about structural reduction. With this package we are taking a major step towards a structural reduction of 25%. Of course, there was no shortage of a single climate breaker: there was a significant reduction in the emissions of coal-fired power stations. This not only reduces CO emissions from coal plants by 75%, but also from other substances such as fine dust. During the corona crisis we all notice how clean our air can be. Let's hold that. That's so healthy. It is also a package that offers opportunities. We help households, schools and sports associations to combat energy waste, for example by exchanging energy gurgling refrigerators, by adding 2 billion extra to solar panels on rooftops and by providing large-scale LED lighting. This will provide a lower energy bill for households, sports organisations and schools, as well as additional work for SMEs and the self-employed. A majority of Dutch people now see the corona pandemic as an opportunity for a greener economy. For this judgment, too, society made its voice heard, not only by going to the streets and going to court, but also by taking part and making concrete proposals for this package. With no less than 800 parties, Urgenda has come to the table to come up with these measures. Most of the proposals from the Urgenda Summit 54 were included in this cabinet package. I would like to congratulate the Minister, and of course Urgenda, for that. It is a wonderful example of how innovation can come from society and find its strength in policy. Mr. Chairman. So society initiated this package. Now the cabinet can take over. That is why D66 believes it is important for the Minister to monitor the implementation of this package and for us to achieve a structural reduction of our CO emissions. D66 stands at the front to hold the cabinet to this; that will surprise no one. I therefore ask the Minister about the implementation of the measures. Are the parties ready to proceed? How does it work? I am also curious to see how negotiations with coal power stations are progressing. How exactly is that scaling going to work? In addition, the question remains, of course, whether this package is sufficient to achieve the objective of 25% structural reduction. This needs to be made clear in the autumn. When can the Minister give the Chamber a ruling on this? And what are we gonna do if it's not enough? Not one, not two, but three times Urgenda won in this state trial. The keeper wins. With this package, we are taking an important step towards a viable climate for future generations. The ultimate goal is to almost no longer emit CO by 2050. That is possible if we keep green choices cheap and easy for everyone. This is far from being the case everywhere, but it is up to politics to take care of this, because that way we will strengthen climate and economy and everyone can participate in the transition to the one and a half society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u8	Thank you, Mr. Sienot. Mr Van Raan has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u9	Thank you, Mr President. We had to wait a long time for it, but the cabinet finally came up with a package of extra measures for the Urgenda goal. After all these long waits you would expect that we could conclude by the end of December that we are definitely going to achieve the goal. But unfortunately, that is still not the case. In yesterday's debate we have been talking about climate all week, Mr President, I asked the Minister whether he would like to use the speedy closure of coal power stations to achieve the objective with certainty, as the verdict calls for. The statement made by the Minister at the time is actually problematic. He says "we know that we are now forced to commit to 2021, because the measures are not all effective before that time." And he also said, "We will come to an end by 2020, but for the period 2021 and perhaps 2023 to which this still relates, we must ensure that we reach the verdict." According to the Minister. Mr. Chairman. That's twice the error with this verdict. In other words, the government started too late, after all, the Minister himself says that it takes a while for it to be effective, and that is why we may miss the goal that we need to achieve with certainty at the end of December, in accordance with the ruling of the Supreme Court. In addition, the government refuses to make the extreme effort that the Chamber has already requested twice by means of motions. So that's the third time we've made a mistake. Mr. Chairman. If the target is actually in danger of being missed, and the Minister himself states that this could indeed be the subject of discussion, will the cabinet then come up with additional measures that will have an effect by December 2020? And if so, what measures are they? Why doesn't this cabinet do more than the minimum once? Urgenda already won the climate issue in 2015, but the climate crisis of course started much earlier. The cabinet of VVD and PvdA did not take measures, but appealed. Urgenda won that too, but this cabinet would rather go into cassation than go into serious action. In the meantime, Urgenda and more than 700 partners presented 54 measures. My predecessor pointed that out. It is wonderful that society is so active, but it is also sad to have to conclude that the cabinet itself was apparently unable to do so. There is still so much profit to be made in the short and long term. Think of reducing aviation, the sector that really managed to lobby itself under every social responsibility. Think of the reduction in livestock farming, which addresses a large part of the nitrogen problem at the same time. And why isn't meat consumption much more strongly discouraged and reduced? This cabinet doesn't dare, or it doesn't want to. Then there are the measures that have been taken. When are we going to see it in practice? Can the Minister give us a timetable per measure? Which coal plants close when and to what extent? How will the cabinet monitor the emissions and the impact of the measures taken? From 2020 onwards, the Netherlands will no longer have any checkable targets; let us not forget that. Apart from the Urgenda target, which says: we must not fall below it. Past experience teaches us that the absence of a stick behind the door can lead to very problematic delaying behaviour. Moreover, 25% reduction by 2020 is the lower limit of the lower limit, and we must, of course, reach 100% as soon as possible. I think the Minister and I agree. Call it the one-and-a-half degree society, the one-and-a-half degree economy. That requires a maximum effort. The Party for Animals therefore considers it important to be able to adjust quickly. Once a year, at the end of October, reporting is too thin for us. Because then you won't be able to adjust for the next year. Is the Minister prepared to update the emission reduction already achieved before the summer recess? And is the Minister prepared to monitor more systematically? Mr. Chairman. We're just getting started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u10	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. I now give the floor to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u11	Mr. Chairman. In 2015, Urgenda Foundation, some orphanless environmental club, filed a lawsuit against the State. And why? The Netherlands, that very small country, responsible for only 0.35% of global CO emissions, needs to reduce more CO. Twice the judge has gone along with that climate hysteria and on 20 December 2019 the Supreme Court did not wipe that ridiculous climate judgment off the table as you might expect, but confirmed it. That is a defeat for democracy, because climate policy is up to politics and not to the courts. The climate debate must take place here in this Parliament. This is where decisions are made. But with this ruling, the highest judge of our country acts as the judge of these political climate discussions, and that is precisely when the judge must be apolitical and independent. The Supreme Court has thus emerged as a climate activist.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u12	Mr Kops is right to say that energy policy here in this House must be determined and determined in the European house, because we are also bound by treaties. But unlike Mr Kops' suggestion, the judge here does not, in my opinion, make a political statement. The only thing the judge is doing is sticking to the standards and the goals we have set ourselves here in this house. That's what it's supposed to be in an adult rule of law. Does Mr Kops share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u13	No, that's not right at all. In that case, Mr Moorlag should read the Supreme Court's ruling better. The Supreme Court relies mainly on policy documents, such as the IPCC reports. The judge also bases himself on documents belonging to the different climate summits. Well, those are climate summits on behalf of countries, on behalf of politics. There's no judge in there, so that's also politics. Then Mr Moorlag says: the judge keeps us to certain standards. Well, that's not true. The judge now says: The Netherlands must reduce CO by 25% by 2020. That's what the judge says. Where does that percentage, that 25%, come from now? The first time, I think, was in 2007 at the climate summit in Bali. Since then, that 25% has returned to those climate summits each time. And what does the judge, the Supreme Court itself, say about that in the judgment? "This does not establish a legal standard with direct effect." That's what the Supreme Court itself says. That can also be true, because the 25% has never been agreed on all these climate summits. It was some kind of ambition. It has only been discussed, so again, no legal standard with direct effect. That is what the Supreme Court has now made of it, and that is not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u14	Here a little selective shopping is done in the pronunciation...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u15	No, you can read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u16	Here some selective shopping is done in the judgment, because ultimately the judge checks on laws and treaties. That's what happened here. If Mr Kops wants to see it differently, he would, in my opinion, do well not to discuss the case law, but to make legislative proposals here that change the standard or make the law different, so that the judge can not rule on it. Isn't that the right way instead of placing justice between the hammer and the anvil?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u17	The judge has made a political decision here, and that is not true, because climate policy is up to politics. So that's what I'm talking about here; that's what I'm doing here. I do not know where Mr Moorlag has been recently, but we have made so many proposals on energy policy. This whole climate policy, we need to get rid of it as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u18	Then I suggest... Well, closing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u19	Well, closing up then, Mr. Chairman. It is up to Mr Kops to find majorities for this in a democracy. If he doesn't find it, then he has to... To quote Mr. Frank Visser, that's what you have to do with this statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u20	That's so lame. This isn't a lawsuit between two neighbors bickering over an overhanging branch or whatever. This is a statement with very big consequences. I do not know if Mr Moorlag understands it all, but this is a trial between two parties which neither represent the public interest. Urgenda is an action group. That on the one hand. And the state acts on behalf of the government, and the government has already committed itself to all kinds of climate madness. But where has such a trial been the input of all the other parties who think differently: citizens, other parties? There hasn't been one. That is one reason why climate policy belongs in politics, and not in the courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u21	In addition to what Mr Kops has just said, I would add that Mr Moorlag gives the impression that the House of Representatives could not criticise judgments of judges. That is, of course, absurd. The House of Representatives must be able to criticize everything and must think about everything. And if a legal error has been committed here, which is probably the case, then the insight will have to start somewhere. After that, we will gradually see it through, and then we will take action in response to it. So the thought now is: yes, but those are judges, and so on. That thought doesn't make sense. Precisely because there is separation of powers, we are free to find what we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u22	Proceed, Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, and have you seen how the verdict went? There was a real live stream, and the judgment was pronounced not only in Dutch, but also in English. Why? Why? I thought it was about the Netherlands and the Dutch CO emissions. No, it wasn't just a court ruling; it had to be and would be a major international political climate show. And that is on the basis of a judgment that suffices with assumptions, dubious legal considerations and climate alarmism. For example, according to the judge, there is "dangerous climate change." I quote. "Inadequate climate policy can lead to hundreds of thousands of victims in Western Europe alone in the second half of this century." In other words, we need to reduce a few extra percentage points of CO here in the Netherlands, otherwise the whole world will perish and we will all die. It's really too ridiculous for words. It's scaremongering and fearmongering at the top. It's climate alarmism of the worst kind. And that pronounced by the supreme judge of our country. That's how far we've gone. Nothing High Council; the judges have renamed themselves CO council full of climate crazies, who do not judge but do climate policy. And the question is, what now? Now no one is safe, not because of climate change, but because of climate persecution. Does the Minister see the consequences of this ruling? It says that there must be 25% CO reduction by 2020. But for what? I'll give you the answer in a minute, because I see that I'm being interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u24	I notice that I have some difficulty with the fact that the judges here are portrayed as climate madness. If Mr Kops has a certain opinion and others do not agree, they do not need to call him a fool. The same goes for what you just said about these judges. It's just not fancy and it doesn't fit. I am sorry that you have done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u25	I'm not here to do chic; I'm here to tell you what the PVV thinks. And yes, the Supreme Court is indeed full of climate crazies that make climate policy. And I do not know if Mrs Mulder has read the judgment very well, but that is full of assumptions. As I said earlier, the Supreme Court assumes hundreds of thousands of victims in the second half of this century. The Supreme Court is talking about "extreme flooding." They all assume the worst, most blackest scenarios, which we can all read in the IPCC reports. Those scenarios will never come out, and that's what the Supreme Court is basing itself on. That is not justice; that is politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u26	I would like to make a comment on the statements. Of course, you're free to have an opinion on that. But Mrs Agnes Mulder's point is that this is about the judges. You also attach certain qualifications to them. That is a bit at odds with the separation of powers and how we deal with our institutions. I think that's the point Mrs. Agnes wants to make Mulder. And I see a bit of the non-verbal... No, you don't have to run, Mr. Baudet. You can just walk to the interrupt microphone. That's actually what I wanted to give you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u27	Could the President explain why it is at odds with the separation of powers that people in the House of Representatives criticize other institutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u28	I'd love to do that, but I'm not in a position to argue with you, so I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u29	But you're taking a position.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u30	I would like to state what Mrs Agnes Mulder's comment is about. It's about the verdict. Everyone is free to tear it down, but not to do it with people. That's what you have to do, too, to speak in the terms of the Driving Judge. I'm not going to argue with you. I suggest Mr. Kops proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u31	I would just like to say that I find it extremely sad how things are going here. You often see that in a political debate. If opponents can't handle it all in substance, they're gonna be whining about the tone. All right, that's what I said. Mr. Chairman. 25% CO reduction...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u32	I would like to say something about this. The PVV, Forum and any other party are free to judge substantive issues, but there is a difference if you commit qualifications to people who cannot defend themselves in this house, and thus also the institutions that our ancestors have built and which are crucial in our democracy in a very disrespectful manner. These people cannot say that themselves, so my colleagues and I feel compelled to do so. You may find everything in content, but why is it necessary to insult people who are not here so personally? Why don't you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u33	Anything else, Mr. Chairman? Then I'd like to continue my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u34	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u35	Mr. Chairman. 25% - I am now saying this for the eighteenth time - CO reduction in 2020, but for what purpose? This additional CO reduction, as currently ordered by the judge, leads to a reduced global warming of only 0.000045 °C in 2100. Every time the PVV comes up with such numbers with a lot of zeros in them, we get hoarded away. The good thing is that we didn't come up with those figures. They come from the State itself, or from this minister himself. With these figures, the State wanted to demonstrate in the case against Urgenda that the effect of the additional CO reduction is totally negligible and not even measurable. So, in fact, this minister himself admits that it's all good for nothing. How hypocritical is it then that at the same time the same minister is doing nothing but pushing the citizens down the throat more, more, more climate policy? In court, a bit of a mouthful, but in the meantime, you're going through with your climate policy. It's just fake. Mr. Chairman. Then how does the Minister intend to implement that climate ruling? In his last letter he talks about, among other things, the collection and recycling of old refrigerators and the like. It's really too sad for words. So on the one hand we have the highest judge in the Netherlands, who goes on the climate alarm tour, and on the other hand we have a minister who talks about recycling old refrigerators. The green madness reigns and the Supreme Court has put a bow on it. If all that had not been so insane and not so much money involved, we could have laughed about it, too, but unfortunately: it is all bitterly serious. We need to get rid of climate policy as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u36	Frankly, Mr Kops seems to me a little like a bad loser. The judge's ruling is clear, three times. I think the state and the politicians have had enough opportunities to have a second look at that. Each time it appeared that the State was failing in the fight against dangerous climate change. I think that's the starting point. I know Mr Kops and his contributions a little bit now, so it is not unlikely that there will be a motion later that says: let's get climate policy through the shredder. In this case, he also says: let's move more comfortable homes for people through the shredder...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u37	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u38	Let's run solar panels for people through the shredder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u39	Man, man, man.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u40	Why does Mr Kops want to put all these things through the shredder, when it can mean so much to people if we do it right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u41	Because it costs so much money and it's not good for anything. But I would like to return to what Mr Sienot said at the beginning of his interruption. He said to me: Mr Kops is a bad loser. See, that's telling, because that's not what this is about. I have said very clearly that the judge must be apolitical and independent. The judge shouldn't have said, "We have to cut CO." The judge shouldn't have said that we shouldn't do CO reduction. The judge should have said: uh-uh, that's not up to us; that's up to politics. That's what should have happened. Mr Sienot calls me a loser. This means that his party sees itself as a great winner, because this judgment fits very conveniently into the political street of D66. That means enough. That means that this has indeed been a political statement. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u42	There has been a three-time opportunity for an independent judge to be judged, who has independently proved Urgenda to be right three times. That's all I'm saying and saying, and we have to accept that. I then ask Mr Kops: take that as a fact; take it as a man and see together how to make the best of it for society. Because 25% CO reduction in one year is quite a challenge. Together with 800 parties from society, this cabinet has ensured that people can get a lower energy bill...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u43	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u44	... that there will be 2 billion more solar panels on the rooftops...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u45	Good. And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u46	In short, that something is brought, rather than taken away. Mr Kops would appreciate that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u47	Lowering the energy bill? Well, I'm sorry, but this cabinet has only increased the energy bill in recent years, so please cut it out. Mr Sienot said: we must accept it. I think he said something like that. He said, "We gotta get to work." No, of course not! I don't think so. That whole climate policy of windmills, biomass, solar panels and you name it all... As PVV we have always said: we do not want that. And we are consistently sticking to those views. There is no judge or anyone who can get us out of those positions, and certainly not Mr Sienot of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u48	Finally, Mr Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u49	Mr Kops looks away from the dangerous wall of climate change, which we will otherwise run into. We have a chance to do something about that together now, otherwise the wall will be much higher. We do not want to do this to the new generations, but Mr Kops obviously does.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u50	Finally, Mr President, I should like to say a few words. That's all that scary shit. That's all scary. Like we're all going down because of climate change. I would like to remind Mr Sienot of some predictions of the past few decades. In the 1980s, it was said at the UN that if we do not control global warming by the year 2000, the rising sea level will flood entire countries. That didn't happen. Thank God, but that didn't happen. And why not? Because the sea level has been rising very evenly here in the Netherlands for almost 100 years, less than 2 millimeters a year. That has been confirmed by our own delta commissioner. He says: "Is the sea level accelerating here in the Netherlands? No. Are we in danger? No. Do we have it all under control? Yes. Should we be worried? No." So what's with the scaremongering? We are not participating, let alone in all the billions spent on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u51	Thank you, Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u52	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u53	Mrs Beckerman has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Up to three times, the climate minister had to be reminded by a judge that he failed in his one task: to protect the inhabitants of this country from climate change. A lot of valuable time has been wasted by the Minister in carrying out these lawsuits. That time could also have been used to come up with really good climate policy. It has already been pointed out by previous speakers: we are not achieving the goals now. And with the package that is being presented today, it is still too late and insufficient. Yesterday we had a very long debate on climate. For today, I should like to make two points: the coal power stations and the sustainability of rental homes. Mr. Chairman. Precisely because we are taking measures too late now, they can be extra dramatic. Yes, we are very much in favour of stopping coal. But if we do it this way, set and jumped and far too late, then the employees of those power stations and in the rest of the chain will suffer. We now read in the documents all about the compensation of the owners of the power stations. But where are the workers? At the closure of the Hemwegcentrale it was well arranged after a battle of workers and their trade unions. A nice agreement has been reached for the Hemwegcentrale. Is the Minister prepared to come up with such a similar arrangement for the other power stations, so that there too the staff, both in the power stations and in the chain, will not suffer from such a political decision? Mr. Chairman. My other point is about social housing. Point 1 of the Urgendaplan, the 54 point plan, was: massive isolation and renovation of rental homes. That was the first item in their agenda. That is a broad-based plan, a broad-based point. Why isn't this obvious step being taken? Because these homes need to be preserved in order to achieve the goals in the longer term. Why don't you do this right now? Because with a large-scale renovation operation for rental homes, with which tenants directly benefit from a better home and low energy bill, which brings the renewable energy targets closer if the roofs also get solar panels and which brings us a big step closer to the climate-neutralisation of that huge housing stock, we can immediately reduce CO and create additional jobs. I don't understand why you're dropping point one of Urgenda. I just heard Mr Sienot fetching Mr Kops that it could be such a nice package, that we can achieve those climate targets so nicely, that the energy bill can be lowered and that we can get a better house, but that is the point, point 1, from the Urgenda package that the cabinet leaves behind. But I hope that there is an opening and that we can work together in this. Yesterday it was confirmed again that it is the people with the lowest incomes who are now getting the hardest hit because of the corona crisis. And it is precisely the sustainability of this type of housing that gives people both a better home and a lower energy bill. I don't understand why we're missing this opportunity right now. So I hope there will be support for that. Mr. Chairman. We have, of course, made a proposal before. If we stop subsidising the hugely polluting and harmful biomass plants, which nobody is waiting for, there is also direct money. In any case, the coronamiliards of state aid show that anything can be done, if there is only one will in the cabinet. Finally, Mr President. We are really worried about whether this package or package will eventually bring the goals closer and whether the targets will be met. We see things passing by again as an "adaptive strategy." What does that even mean? If it's a little light, then we can still be deprived of coal? Furthermore, we see a lot of loose measures, as people offer a few tens to buy a new refrigerator. And why will there be support for companies to comply with the energy saving obligation? Isn't that the law for years? Are you going to pay as a minister to make sure companies can comply with the law? Mr. Chairman. We are in favour of real solutions that will improve people's lives, and I would therefore like to reiterate my plea: sustainable social housing and support the people in the coal power stations and the coal chain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u55	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u56	Madam President. The Urgenda judgment of the Supreme Court is a far-reaching ruling. From a state-owned point of view, the SGP Group is downright unhappy with this. In our opinion, this has put the judge too much on the legislator's chair. We have a rule of law, but we don't want a state of justice. Since the Waterpakt judgment, the Supreme Court was clear: it does not fit the judge to send the bailiff after the legislator. But does not the reasoning that is being followed really mean a legislative order? Isn't this what the beacons are gonna be? And yes, the judge is entitled to judge by international law, including the right to life under the European Convention on Human Rights, which has in fact now been decisive for the ruling. If you attach it to very general provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights, then the disadvantage is that it is very difficult to adapt. It is often the case that the People's Assembly is dissatisfied with a court ruling. Then you say, "Well, if you don't agree, you have to change the law." But how do you do that when it comes to fundamental human rights provisions? It's very difficult to adjust it. The Council of State noted in its review of the 2019 Annual Report that it is not easy under international obligations to amend treaties and that the judge should therefore also be reluctant in the reinterpreting of treaty provisions, in the interests of democracy and in the interests of the authority of the judge as an institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u57	I have a question. Suppose the Dutch State ignores the Urgenda judgment and simply says "boys, we're not going to do this, ready," for example on the basis of a motion adopted by the House of Representatives. The House of Representatives is not bound. We are even immune here, so we cannot be bound by judgments. Then, of course, Urgenda could be going through some kind of procedure to demand a penalty payment for non-compliance. That is the only legal claim that could follow. There's no other coercion than a penalty payment. The state can't be put in jail or anything. The state can only be forced to pay something. Who would the State be obliged to pay that penalty payment to, according to Mr Van der Staaij?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u58	I have also seen in the literature that there is discussion about this, but frankly I am not getting there myself. However critical I am of a judgment, I would like to point out that in a rule of law we are obliged to execute judgments. If you have opposed to the highest authority as the State has done, then there will be a moment when there is some room for interpretation as to how you wish to complete that judgment, but it is the right you have to deal with. That also fits in with the relationship between the state powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u59	That's an opinion, but it was just me on the next question. Suppose that the majority in the Chamber does not share that view and that it adopts a motion which states: calls on the government to ignore the Urgenda judgment. Then there might be a penalty payment demanded. Who is the State to pay that penalty payment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u60	Again, I am not getting to that execution question. That's why I'm not going along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u61	Yeah, but that execution question...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u62	Don't talk through it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u63	Mr Baudet may answer that, but I say that I am not getting there. I understand that it's all very complicated, but I don't think you should listen to a statement because otherwise it might be that you can be dealt with or that it's all very complicated. No, if we're dissatisfied with this outcome, I'm also unhappy with it, then we need to think about what you could or should change about it. I'll make a suggestion about that in a minute. But even if such a motion were to be adopted by a majority in parliament, the government would reply: it does not work in a rule of law; this is simply contrary to the foundations of our state system. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u64	I don't think so. I simply do not agree with you, constitutionally speaking. The whole state-law history is full of the dialectics of the powers. There's a fight all the time. I think it's a good thing you're saying, guys, we're gonna put it next to us. And that penalty payment is, in fact, the punch line, the State has to pay to itself. This shows the absurdity of Article 3 305a of the BW, on which all this is based. You cannot integrate a public-law concept, namely the general interest, into private law, because in the end you end up with such an absurd statement as Urgenda, where there is no means of coercion. The State is forced to do something in the public interest, and then has to pay a penalty payment to itself. So that is the end, the end, of the separation of powers, where only one can be the boss, and that is democracy, the parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u65	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u66	I would like to thank Mr Baudet for giving him a taste of his own reflections. I'm giving it a slightly different direction. I say: the Minister writes that it cannot be ruled out that the judgment does indeed have a broader meaning. This is why a letter from the Minister for Security and Justice has been promised. When's it due? And does the cabinet also want to include the following aspects? Is the right to life ever meant to enforce such far-reaching measures? Our impression is not. And is the Cabinet also considering the possibility of reaching an interpretative statement with like-minded Member States on the right to life in relation to climate action? When ratifying the Paris Convention, the government indicated that these agreements were not directly binding. The European Convention on Human Rights shows that this is the case all of a sudden. What does this mean for our stance on future international treaties? It is very doubtful whether your policy objectives, however well intended, should be legally defined, for example in climate laws. How does the Minister view this in the light of the position of the Supreme Court? And does the Minister also wish to include in the letter the question of whether we in the Netherlands have too wide an opportunity for all kinds of interest groups to enforce by way of court cases that ultimately primarily call for political consideration, and whether it is desirable to settle questions that go deep on administrative law through civil law? Isn't this asking for a short circuit? Mr Baudet's point about the means of coercion and the absurdities that are being discussed can also be taken into account. Mr. Chairman. Those were the considerations that I wanted to make more fundamental in this debate. As has been said, climate and energy have also been the subject of an exchange of views in other debates over the last few days. Very specific about the Urgenda package, we were wondering the following. In addition to measures relating to refrigerators and solar panels which, in our opinion, can be valuable and useful in themselves, there are also a number of emergency devices which seem to have a cosmetic character in particular. Measures are brought forward, with accompanying cash slides, but what do these cash slides mean for achieving the targets after 2020? Coal plants must take back gas, even though they are already covered by the European emissions trading system, and if we are not careful, we will simply import more fossil power. In short, in European terms, this will hardly lead to any additional CO reduction, will it not? Are we not actually going to meet the 2020 target on paper without having any real material significance? How much money does the Minister intend to pay for the appropriate disadvantage compensation? As far as the SGP is concerned, we are investing that in measures that make energy supply truly sustainable and also economically positive. On the contrary, the latter deserves priority. In our view, it clearly shows that policy objectives do not belong in legally binding legislation and in the courtroom, but that we should, above all, discuss them here and take appropriate action. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u67	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u68	Mr President, thank you. It is remarkable to be back in this Chamber for the first time and to see colleagues in this way. Mr. Chairman. Corona strikes mercilessly hard in the Netherlands, and also in the rest of the world. In this context, the cabinet has considered how it should deal with the Urgendavonnis. Stand on it. The impact of the crisis on the reduction of CO2 emissions was immediately apparent. The question was just how big these effects are and whether they are also structural. We would like to avoid an overkill of measures in an unprecedented period of excitement for our country. At the same time, we must comply with a court ruling. Our group very much appreciates the realistic direction taken by the government in relation to Urgenda. Security of supply of energy is paramount. The extent to which coal plants will be scaled down or possibly closed down will be considered in the autumn. The latest state of play in climate and energy exploration is highlighted. The CDA thinks that's a good idea. We want the verdict to be complied with, but it must be reasonable and feasible and affordable. It seems that the cabinet has managed to do so for the time being. In addition to the coal measures, which are at the heart of the approach, the cabinet has chosen to take a number of additional incentive measures. For example, the cabinet chooses to invest in social housing. My colleague, Mr Ronnes, now Mr Terpstra, and I have always worked hard for that. It is good to see that the cabinet is now implementing this. This also contributes to achieving the renewable energy target. However, when reading the Minister's answers to our questions in the written consultation, we get the feeling that sometimes we talk a bit along each other's lines. Does the Minister agree that housing corporations do not actually have significant access to the SDE+, although this was the intention, including the increase of the SDE+ by EUR 2 billion? The minister said yesterday during the debate: "Finally, you want panels on those rooftops, apart from copper or tenant. I really agree with that. I think we should encourage corporations to regulate this on a large scale." I fully agree with these words from the Minister. My question to him is how he and the Minister of Foreign Affairs are going to take that up. We would like the ministers to discuss this with the housing corporations. Does he want to promise that? Mr. Chairman. In addition to the SDE+, the Cabinet in the Urgendabrief has made money available for sun on roof through the Regeling reduction landlord's tax sustainability. That sounds nice, but a possible bottleneck is that the housing corporations only get the tax discount if they improve rental houses with at least three energy label steps, or a 60% lower energy consumption. With solar panels alone, this is not possible, and that is when solar panels are by far the most visible and feasible sustainable measure for housing corporations. Then we wonder what possibilities the Minister sees for this extra money to temporarily relax this requirement, so that the money for sunshine on the roof of rental homes is quickly available. Mr. Chairman. This morning we had a conversation with Commissioner Timmermans. I have also asked him to what extent there are funding opportunities for social housing from Europe. We have also asked questions about this in the written input to the Environment Council. Timmermans saw opportunities through the European Investment Bank. I hope that the Minister will make a strong effort to use these European funds to improve housing for our tenants in the social sector. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The Urgenda measures are actually a first step towards getting out of the crisis. The one-and-a-half-metre society and the 1.5°C global warming: one promotes the other. The CDA report She side by side defines care for the home of the earth as "the modern translation of stewardship." The climate problem is also a social question, because responsible living together is at stake. The key to solving the climate issue lies with the government and the business community, but the necessary transition is really impossible if our citizens do not participate. In our election programme, the government agreement and the national climate agreement, the CDA has advocated feasibility, affordability and support. In addition, the economic opportunities of climate and, above all, the energy transition are also mentioned. Where the corona pandemic is a sudden crisis, global warming is a slow-motion crisis. There is no doubt that corona teaches us to take the climate seriously. By working at home, we appreciate green near the lake all the more. We call for investment in the reconstruction of our economy to focus on construction, the climate and the manufacturing industry. In doing so, the CDA draws attention to the relationship between investment, the benefits for CO reduction, the contribution to sustainable growth and the employment effects. Good cost-benefit analyses are essential because of their support. The European Commission also wants a coordinated approach to exit from the crisis. We just want our society to have room for the living environment, innovations and local initiatives and to involve our citizens. Reciprocity fits us in the post-coronas society. After all, the climate and our society are a common good of and for all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u69	Thank you, Mrs Agnes Mulder. I now give the floor to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u70	Mr. Chairman. The ruling of the Supreme Court in the Urgenda case is a high point and a low point in our democratic rule of law. It is not so much a highlight because of the content of the case law. It's a verdict. You can say "a good ruling from the Supreme Court" or "a bad ruling from the Supreme Court," but I think we should be reluctant to judge the content of the ruling here. It is a highlight because citizens in this country, non-governmental organisations and interest groups can get their rights from a judge. That is a very great asset in a rule of law. It is also a good thing that it is not only subject to national laws but also to international conventions. I have been a trade unionist for many years, and the whole right to strike in the Netherlands is based on international law. We do not know any strike laws in the Netherlands. We have in the past had a ban on public service strike, but that has also been abolished thanks to a European treaty. You might say "it's a welcome statement" or "it's an unwelcome statement." If the PVV or Forum for Democracy were to say that, I would think: yes, I can justify that. But I think we should be cautious in giving judgements on the content of a ruling. I think it is a welcome statement, because it will speed up the realisation of our climate ambitions. I think there is also a majority in favour of this democracy. I therefore find it difficult to say that this ruling is a violation of our democratic rule of law or that judges have operated outside their mandate. If it has to be otherwise, parties in this Chamber who want it to be different will simply have to find majorities for it. And then they will be able to shape the policy and bring climate policy through the shredder, to quote Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u71	Don't provoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u72	No, no, but I would remind colleagues that in our democratic rule of law, the parties from a populist point of view...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u73	No, Mr. Moorlag...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u74	...just have to do the political work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u75	You said that in the event of interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u76	Yeah, and sometimes that goes really well. Mr Kops has in the past submitted an initiative law on nitrogen. That's something I really appreciate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u77	Well, I'll go see Mr. Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u78	I hope that Mr Moorlag also agrees with the consideration of the Council of State in the annual report for 2019. It says: critical judgements on judgments or judgments are allowed; it just doesn't affect the institution as such. In my view, that is what has happened here today, at least on the part of my group. But the Council of State also points out that you can normally say "change the law if you do not agree with a court ruling," but that if you invoke whole general provisions of international treaties, the question is what can you do as parliamentarians. Then it may be unsatisfactory if a majority of the House says "we do not really want to do so," but the judge, on the basis of very general international rulings, says "and yet this and that must be done." Doesn't Mr Moorlag see anything wringing there? Doesn't he see tension there, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u79	Yes, but I think that we should also resolve this democratically. If we find that our treaties are not clear enough, we have a duty to formulate them in such a way that they are clear. So we can also tackle this issue democratically. And I also see the debate among legal scholars. The fact that this debate is taking place there is also a very good thing. But as representatives of the people, we can do something with language in our democracy. I think you can take part in that debate, but we should also be aware that language can undermine the support for our institutions. That's what I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u80	Moreover, I was struck by the fact that I agreed that the Council of State said that there is no need for an alarming tone in relation to the relationship between these state powers. In itself, this critical reflection is part of an adult rule of law and democracy. Fine so far. But Mr Moorlag will say: you can amend a treaty like this for a while. However, as far as the European Convention on Human Rights is concerned, it seems very complicated to me that, with all those States of the Council of Europe, the interpretation of the right to life, or the right to family life, it is now also a provision.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There's a little tension there. Does Mr Moorlag therefore think it would be an idea, if a majority on this point or any other point were to be unhappy, to see if you could come up with an interpretative statement within the Council of Europe on articles from that European Treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u81	I think that this is a little far beyond the scope of this debate. I believe that there should be a constant debate on this issue. I believe that we should have a system of checks-and-balances in our rule of law in which that balance is found. I always find the contribution of the SGP to that debate very interesting. I cannot give you such an answer on exactly how to shape that, but I do think we should have the debate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u82	Mr Moorlag says that he does not really want to talk about the content of the ruling. Yes, that is of course easy, because that statement is full of all kinds of assumptions, things that are not right and climate alarmism. Then he says: if this ruling does not please parties in this Chamber, then those parties should come up with other ideas. Then they'll have to try to change the law. But, Mr Moorlag, that's the problem. The judge just sat down in the chair of politics. The judge just ignored politics. In fact, the judge ignores what has been agreed in politics. What has actually been agreed since the Paris Climate Agreement, we are not happy with it, but that has actually been agreed: 20% CO reduction by 2020. That's a deal. The judge now waltzes over it and makes 25% of it, on the basis of all kinds of assumptions and cases that have not been agreed at all. How does Mr Moorlag feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u83	I believe that we should strengthen our ambitions in terms of content and policy. If Mr Kops believes that things should be different or that the judge has gone beyond the mandate that the law gives to judges, then here, in this debate, in this house, we are able to make laws to amend it. Mr Kops will have to find majorities for that. I find it too easy to disqualify judges and the judiciary. That's how it's supposed to work in a democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u84	That's not the whole point. Of course, we as politicians have to deal with climate policy. That's right, we have to go over it. But the judge has now sat in our seat. The Netherlands agreed to a 20% CO reduction by 2020. We don't have to, but that's a deal. The judge will then, on the basis of a judgment full of assumptions and climate alarmism, go over that. Does Mr Moorlag and the PVV believe that this is not true? He himself says that we are politically concerned with climate policy. Mr Moorlag must try to change this climate policy here with all kinds of laws and proposals. Exactly. Then Mr Moorlag must also acknowledge that what the Supreme Court has done now is not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u85	No, I'm not. For Mr Kops presents it as a hard fact that the judge has sat on the seat of politics. That's just an opinion. Only when that opinion is supported by a majority here can you use instruments, all the instruments we have in our democracy, to correct that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u86	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u87	Mr. Chairman. As I said, it is a highlight because citizens and NGOs can turn to the courts, but it is also a low point, in the sense that the executive power is being tapped. It's a little different from a zoning plan that doesn't make it to the Council of State. It is very fundamental. Actually, it should be a one-time thing, but it's not a one-time thing. Look, for example, at the problem of nitrogen. The Council of State's ruling on this matter is, in fact, the same as what is happening here. Basically, we are not reducing our emissions fast enough. My question to the Minister is whether he wants to ensure that not only CO emissions but also other harmful substances are reduced more quickly. The Minister is not about nitrogen and he is not competent to do so, but he does have an interest in it. Nitrogen and CO are closely interwoven. The second important thing is that this government will also have to operate crediblely. My appeal to the Minister is therefore to work in the Cabinet to reduce emissions of other harmful substances, so that they come within the standards we have set in this house. I must also say that the government has had consequences for these statements, which is a good thing. You can discuss the measure, and I would also like to make a proposal on one point, because it is, in my opinion, urgent, a point that Mrs Beckerman has already referred to, and that concerns rentals and properties. We can make it more sustainable much faster. We are now facing another crisis, the COOVID-19 crisis, which is going to cause a huge recession. Accelerating home insulation and the sustainability of home is low-hanging fruit that we can now quickly pick. The government needs to start investing out of that covid crisis. We really need to make these investments in the years to come. My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to speed this up and whether he is prepared to make a plan, together with the representatives of builders, as well as those of homeowners, tenants and landlords, and to set a path for speeding up the sustainability of housing. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u88	Thank you, Mr Moorlag. I now give the floor to Mr Harbers on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the end of last year, the Supreme Court dismissed the state's appeal against Urgenda and thus the previous judgment became final. The VVD Group would have preferred a different outcome, especially in view of the fact that many measures have been taken to reduce CO emissions in the Netherlands in the coming decades and to reduce them to the Paris target. That transition has now really been deployed, supported by many companies and institutions in the Climate Agreement. But within the Dutch rule of law we accept this judgment. Hence the cabinet's efforts to comply with the verdict. And if that is the case, we also think that it is a good idea that the cabinet has also looked at measures taken to give economic impetus to sectors that are currently struggling as a result of the corona crisis. The same crisis is currently causing a temporary reduction in CO emissions, mainly due to a change in electricity demand. This gives extra importance to the adaptive strategy which the Minister intends to pursue with regard to the reduction of production in coal-fired power stations. This measure is the biggest blow in this package of measures and therefore an inevitable part, but it is important to measure it. After all, even if we do nothing, coal plants will be closed by 2030 anyway. So in order to reduce CO emissions more quickly, the government has to put a fee on the table. I therefore believe that the measure should not go beyond what is necessary to comply with the judgment. So there are just a few more questions about that. The measure will be announced temporarily for a few years. Does the Minister have a picture of how many years that will have to be? What does the intended weighing moment look like? On the basis of what information will the measure be adjusted if it so wishes? The corresponding law is due to enter into force at the end of this year, but now the PBL has published several scenarios, depending on how long the corona crisis lasts. Is there also a possibility of flexibility, for fine-tuning, following the entry into force of the law, depending on CO2 emissions and expectations in 2021 and later? I have a question for the effect, so the answer does not have to be given today. The Minister announced that he would inform the Chamber before the summer. How's it going for the summer? Could he then take the next thought with him? It points out that this measure may also have a nitrogen effect. It is of its nature that this measure is temporary. The government's nitrogen approach has now indicated that the temporary nitrogen reduction may be used for projects, such as sustainability projects, which have only a temporary nitrogen effect. I would ask the Minister to answer the question as to whether this measure can be added to the coal-fired power plant, so that the temporary nitrogen effect can be temporarily used again. Mr. Chairman. The other measures focus not only on being feasible in the short term, but also on seducing people and businesses to reduce CO emissions. That's what got us out of the heart. In our view, it can stimulate people if we take measures that will also have a positive effect on themselves, for example energy savings, which you will find in your energy bill. The goal we support is CO reduction, but in a way that doesn't have to change the way of life for people. A few more questions and comments on the rest of the package of measures. When is the outcome of the exploration for specific measures in industry known? For greenhouse horticulture additional support has now been announced in the form of LED lighting in greenhouses. A good thing, but it is without prejudice to the fact that the cabinet is still engaged in a broader investigation into the impact of the Climate Agreement and the ODE increase on greenhouse horticulture. My question is when it will be ready. Then there is the SDE spring round, which we discussed earlier in a previous Urgenda debate. It was raised in view of the Urgendavonnis. Will the applications that receive a grant on the basis of this round also be subject to the extended implementation period due to the corona crisis? Finally, it is a good thing that funds are available for SMEs. Mrs Mulder and I have already made a commitment to this in the budget debate. It is precisely in these difficult times that the money to invest in renewable energy evaporates or evaporates there, and SMEs would have to face up to the wall if they had to comply with an information requirement for energy saving but then have no chance of taking any action to actually invest and take measures. Apart from the package, I would also like to inform the Minister that this is something he must constantly take into account in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u90	Mr Van der Lee has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u91	Because Mr Harbers asked a number of questions about the coal power stations and how that will be worked out, I wanted to ask him a question. A report has been made by the eRisk Group that has looked at the earning model behind the coal power plants. I have already recalled that this is quite bad, and it seems in the years to come that these plants can only continue to operate commercially thanks to biomass, i.e. subsidies, and that these subsidies are actually such a market distorting effect, because other alternatives that save more CO become unnecessarily expensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u92	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u93	My question to Mr Harbers is: would he like to know with me from the Minister whether that is not a route through which the coal power stations can be closed down by simply stopping these subsidies?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u94	No. The answer is: I don't need to know, so Mr. Van der Lee will have to ask you himself. You know, this is just the question: can we retake the past? No, we cannot do that again, and Mr Van der Lee also knows that GroenLinks was also a supporter of biomass in coal plants. Many parties were behind that, but in my past, when I was alderman in Rotterdam and those coal power plants came, it was the GroenLinks Group in the council who constantly bombarded me that there was a lot more biomass in it. Yes, subsidies for biomass have been given on trade-offs in the past. Those are current decisions. So that's what you're running into; you can't just move in. For the rest, I think it is a good measure by the Cabinet to simply look at how to achieve a temporary production restriction. In any case, if you limit production, there is less emissions in those power stations, whether it was coal or biomass that was smothered there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u95	It is always good to change policy if there are unintended consequences, but I understood Mr Harbers' questions as if they were aimed at achieving as much CO reduction as possible in the coal-fired power stations at the lowest possible cost. Then this would also be a route that is good to explore. I assume he agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u96	I always think it should be as cheap as possible. If we do nothing, the coal plants will close by 2030 anyway. We don't have to spend any more money for that. Everything you do to speed up should be as cost-effective as possible. That is why I am so curious about the outcome of the discussions that the Minister is having. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u97	Thank you, Mr. Harbers. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u98	Thank you, Mr President. We are slowly getting back out of the corona crisis, but the impact that all measures have on our economy will certainly continue for a long time to come. Back to the old economy is no longer an option, because after the corona crisis and the ensuing economic crisis, the climate crisis did not just disappear. The fact that we now, at this time, emit less CO is certainly not structural. This is also apparent from calculations from the PBL sent to us by the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The need for swift action to initiate and accelerate the massive transition was confirmed by the judge in the Urgenda case. The supplementary package now before us gives us hope. It is good that it has come about with so much support from society. Real ambitions and firm measures have been announced, such as fewer coal. My group, too, agrees with the questions on how to develop them and what is actually this adaptive strategy. I have also read about a return premium for refrigerators and freezers, which is all very nice and, for example, about the 2 billion extra for sun-up roof. Now yesterday I received an email from our council groups from Northwest Overijssel, which said that there are civilian cooperatives there who would like to work with sun-to-roof, but that commercial developers reserve grid capacity, so they do not even use it, but only reserve it. If you can do that, I'll ask the Minister. What's he gonna do about it? Mr. Chairman. Setting a path to a more sustainable future comes naturally with calculations of the PBL and with targets. Progress must be measured, but the risk is that we have only started to think in numbers and numbers and that we only see the legal reality instead of the real world. In that case, it is also sometimes good to take a step back to keep the overview. Do the steps we take also have the effect that we aim to achieve? Is everyone still on board? One of the things that we consistently fail to do is to take the citizen with us in this transition. The Minister announces measures that will enable people to work more easily and cheaply to make their homes more sustainable, but what exactly is to be done and when is still unclear for many people? Our group believes that this can and must be changed. A government that comes too far from the people and is unable to see and help the individual and his or her situation not only undermines acceptance, but will also not achieve the goals. Clarity and scope for action really need to be given much more. I have also pointed this out in many previous debates. People still have questions like "do I have to switch to a heat pump already if my resume breaks down tomorrow or are there any alternatives?', "How can I afford that?" And "what arrangements are there and what do I qualify for?" Earlier, a motion of Christian Union and D66 was adopted on the development and reach of the campaign Everyone is doing something. I had to think hard again this morning what that campaign was called. How is the Minister finally going to implement this motion? Is there a window in each municipality where people can seek advice and get answers to questions like "what can I do in my situation?', "What help can I expect from the government?" And "what climate gains and economic gains does it yield and when did I earn it back?" Those are simple questions, but there will be no answer. The point is that PBL reports and the Climate Agreement are translated into action perspective for people. I don't see that yet. How's the Minister gonna take care of this? Mr. Chairman. I'm going through it fast. I'm rounding up. The corona virus literally shut us down. Of course I didn't want this corona virus; it's made a lot of people sick and I really hope it's behind us soon and that we won't see any more sick people. But it has also taught us something, namely that limitlessness is at the expense of ourselves and of creation, while rest is a good thing for creation. It is time for reflection, for moments of rest and moments of encounter. We do not have Himalayas, but we did have beautiful, clean, blue skies. Because that tranquillity is a good thing for society, I hope that someday there will be a majority in this Chamber to restore Sunday rest. With that we also have a megaton to achieve the goal of Urgenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u99	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u100	Thank you, Mr President. In the third and final ruling in the Urgenda case, the Supreme Court forces the State to reduce the combined volume of annual Dutch greenhouse gas emissions by at least 25% by the end of 2020 compared to 1990. A blessing and a curse is that the decision on the reduction of these emissions is the responsibility of the government. The danger of this is that we waste precious time, including for the long-term vision of the energy transition, with political stranglehold, polarized positions and a little hopeful outcome of typical Dutch polder. But, Mr President, the phrase 'never washed a good crisis' has been mentioned more often these days, in all kinds of debates. We can now draw lessons from the biodiversity crisis and hence from the climate crisis, the corona crisis and the economic crisis we are now in. Does the Minister recognise that all these crises are interlinked and that, if we want to keep the earth viable for future generations, we must recognise that we should not put each other on a standstill and that the cabinet should give optimal space for innovation, scientific insights, wild ideas and progressive insight? Mr. Chairman. We need to pay more attention in our economy to natural capital, biodiversity, clean air, fertile soil, clean water, including in the search for solutions to our climate problem. "Otherwise we're gonna do stupid things," as ecology expert and chairman of Urgenda Louise Vet wrote in NRC last week. Then we're gonna cut down forests for biomass to generate energy. This cabinet invests EUR 11.4 billion to fuel trees that store CO, resulting in more emissions than a coal power plant and worldwide deforestation. That madness has to stop! Put those billions, including the billions that are now almost unconditionally given to polluting multinationals, into innovation that protects natural capital, restores biodiversity and keeps our country viable for our children and grandchildren. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u101	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. That also brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm looking at the minister if he needs a brief suspension. That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u102	I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u103	Mr President, thank you. I have, of course, listened to the debate on the court ruling, but it is really not for me to comment on that. There's a ruling from the Supreme Court. You can have views about the way in which that statement came about. You can agree, and everyone will agree, that this is and will remain a rule of law. Whatever it is about, that is something we must cherish. At the same time, it is also true that, in the coalition agreement, we have focused on climate policy at the lowest social cost, and I have also applied this principle to the implementation of the Urgendavonnis. That has to be met and I have tried to do so in a way that is as easy for the taxpayer as possible. Now questions have been asked mainly about coal and the coal measure. I want to walk through that. After that, many specific questions were asked. If that's okay, I'll walk through it in the order of the various spokesmen. The coal measure is the largest. It is a measure which must yield at least 5 megatons. At the same time, security of supply must be maintained, and this requires that we do not shut down all power stations. What we're doing is a temporary production restriction. That means that power stations don't have to go to zero. In principle, therefore, they are allowed to continue to operate, but they must be less prone and they must do so for a number of years. The verdict is of course about 2020, but if I were to take that, it would be a bit legalistic, because it is very easy to get the same verdict for 2021, 2022 and 2023. And if we follow the normal path of the Climate Agreement, we will not be on the desired emissions either. So I feel obliged to take the verdict more broadly and to cater not only for 2020, but also for 2021, 2022 and 2023. In addition, of course, it is a bit complicated to do all kinds of things with retroactive effect before 2020, but I'll get to the numbers in a moment. The limitation of production must be regulated by law and that is regulated by the Coal Act. There's gonna be a law amendment to this law. He's going to consult. Then there's another recess and then it has to go to the Council of State. I think that submission to the Lower House in Q3 is just not feasible. But it then forces coal-fired power stations to operate on a reduced capacity. We will have to compensate them for that. That is not a free negotiation between the State and a private party. It's not "what the fool gives for it," it's not necessarily the market value at the time given the importance that it holds. Legally, we are obliged to compensate for disadvantages. This means that we are supposed to pay no less than the objective disadvantage, but also no more, because that is overcompensation, and that is state aid. That doesn't take anything like what you call a classic negotiation, but that does require consultation. It requires consultation on the underlying figures that determine the disadvantage. That means I can't tell you what the exact amount is right now. That is not very helpful when I talk to the power stations, but I hope you will forgive me here. Now it may be that one of the owners says: bon, for me it is a better solution to shut down the plant altogether. A party might say that. If there were any closure of a power station, it would be an owner who shuts down the power station and not the Empire. Through that law, we are calling for a reduction in emissions, and that is what is being directed at. If this goes through, in a manner of speaking, the standard variant of limiting production, then this will hardly or not be accompanied by job losses. A significant loss of employment is not foreseen. That could be different if a central decision were to be taken. If that comes up as a wish in consultation with the Empire and if that is cost-effective, then I am prepared to cooperate. But in that case, one of the requirements will be that there are also guarantees for employment and that there are appropriate arrangements for people. At Hemwegcentrale we have experienced this before. But again, the basic variant is that there is a limitation of emissions. That's what the law enforces. How does that mechanism work? How do we define the adaptive strategy? Grosso mode we have taken all kinds of measures. The closure line, i.e. adjustable, is the coal measure. Before 2020 there was, for corona, a deficit, a residual estimate after all measures, of about 8 megatons. That is, of course, because the measures we are taking, given the lead time, actually contribute very little to 2020, I say in all honesty. The last call was 8 megatons. Meanwhile, the initial estimates of the corona effect are 6 to 8 megatons less. That would mean that we would not be able to make it by 2020. Because the Empire is serious about achieving the goal, I focus on 2021, 2022 and 2023 in addition to 2020. In 2021, we also have a residual statement, which can indeed be resolved with this measure. This also applies to 2022 and 2023. How am I gonna keep me on the safe side? It is by taking into account uncertainties when determining the level at which coal power stations operate. That's what I need to do. Another form of uncertainty is, of course, that I do not focus legally on 2020 and, in addition, say "thank you Corona and by the way, 2020 is already over," but that I will also take measures by 2021, 2022 and 2023 with a look-through to ensure that we reach that verdict. That's what I do. What figures is that based on? That is what Mr Harbers is asking. In September of this year I hope to have preliminary figures from the CBS and the RIVM on an initial assessment of the effects of corona. By then, we will have to decide what we think about the further development of corona. Corona will be present for the time being in 2020, and let's hope it stays that way. There is no indication yet that this would be an important dent in emissions of 2021. But it could be, and we might know more about it in September. It is clear that the corona effects are currently expected to be limited to 2020 and that the indirect effect of the judgment is extended to 2021, 2022 and 2023. I wasn't given to count on a corona effect in that. In fact, we're going through this variant, which is that we're still walking around with the virus for three years, I certainly shouldn't think about that. That's how I see the adaptive strategy. That's how I think I can stay on the safe side. That is also the reason why I cannot now give the exact amount, in reply to Mr Van der Staaij's question. I have, of course, calculated behind the scenes in which this measure is more cost-effective than others, based on an assessment by an external party of what those costs are. In order not to asymmetricalize the conversation with the parties, I am not releasing that amount now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u104	Then there are interruptions by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Sienot, Mr Van Raan and Mrs Beckerman. Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u105	I have two more questions about how you are going to implement this adaptive strategy when it comes to achieving CO savings by reducing the production of electricity from coal plants. My first question is: can this in practice also mean increasing the biomass part and reducing the use of coal? My second question is about the coal bill. If the eRisk report is true, namely that power stations can only operate with a margin thanks to the biomass subsidy, is it not conceivable, precisely from the point of view of preventing market disruption, that the coal law stipulates that the generation of electricity from a mix of coal and biomass is prohibited, if that happens in power stations that are simply not profitable?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u106	Two things about this. I'll start with the second. That would be very wonderful. We have parties, and that is the basis of the SDE and of all kinds of other instruments, and we do not intend to make parties rich because they are sustainable. We are only prepared to compensate for the extra costs, the uneconomic summit, and then temporarily. And that's as long as it takes to have that incentive. At some point we will do everything we can to ensure by scaling up and innovation that it is no longer necessary. But of course, our aim is to compensate only for the additional costs of a particular technique. And then it can never be that a power station works thanks to a subsidy on a supplement, because that power plant not only has the extra subsidy on the add-on value of x, but also has the extra cost of the add-on value of x. And x minus x is zero. Whether the party would stop using biomass and the subsidy or continue with biomass with the subsidy, it should not matter in the operation. We do not do that either because we are in love with biomass, but we do so because we are forced, kept, to generate a percentage of renewable energy in a way that is stricter than the EU requires. This is an obligation which also affects the Netherlands as a Member State. That's what we do. So no, it can never be that as a result of compensating the uneconomic top of a specific act, someone can run its entire exploitation with it. I can't. Can we increase biomass? That's a wrong way of saying it. We count here in tons. The biomass part of the combustion does not count as emissions. We can have endless debates about that. I'm sure we will. In governments where Mr Van der Lee is in my place, I wish him every success. But this is what we are doing now and it does not serve any purpose now, in carrying out the Urgenda judgment, to bring the biomass part back. It does serve a purpose to bring the coal part back. That's entirely in line with the law it's in. We don't want any more coal fire. Coal's coming out. This means that the reduction of emissions must be achieved by reducing the fuel consumption of coal. That's what the law will enforce. In percentage terms biomass will increase, but not in absolute terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u107	I would also like to have some certainty about the latter, because in the current coal law compensation, the disadvantage compensation, has been designed by giving plants time to use an alternative, namely biomass, with billions of state aid. If the Minister is now saying that this is not going to go up in absolute terms and that he is not going to propose a change to the coal law in which it will become a form of disadvantage compensation, then I think it is very important to establish that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u108	I do not think I understand exactly Mr Van der Lee. We've got what's going on after 2030. I think he was talking about that, but that's not even Cousin im Frage here. We're talking 2021, 2022 and 2023. Decisions have been taken on this subject for a grant subject to a certain biomass fuel. Nothing's gonna change that. The rest is coal-fired, and that will change. That's pushed down by law. This does not mean that there will be more biomass, because the decisions are the decisions and they do not change.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u109	Finally, on this point. Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u110	I would like to hear this, because I want to be sure that we do not opt for a change of policy as a form of disadvantage compensation, where we might adopt new decisions again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u111	No, no, no, I think the verdict is even secured in the coalition agreement. We have often said that new decisions on biomass subsidies in coal-fired power stations will not be taken. The existing decisions may be submitted............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I don't see that happening. When I have sown that doubt, I like to hear where I have formulated impurely. That's not the point. The coals have to go down, that's the big point here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u112	Mr. Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u113	The Minister and I understand each other well, but I want to be absolutely sure, because in society there is still some uncertainty about it. Here's what's important. I just heard the Minister say: I am not only looking at 2020 for the reduction, because then we would not be able to make it, but also to 2021, 2022 and 2023.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u114	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u115	What we're talking about is a structural reduction. The -25% that we may achieve this year due to all kinds of factors, but at least in 2021, we need to be the new peak. Does the Minister agree with me and is that what he means when he says: am I looking at the following years?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u116	Let me put it in my own words. I think we can agree. That verdict is, technically speaking, about 2020. This means reducing 1990 emissions by a quarter. That is the ceiling for 2020. Since that judgment indirectly has an effect on all years after that, forever, we must ensure that we reach that level, 1990 minus 25%, even in the years after that. At that time, I looked at what years that could be compelling, given the expected progress of the Climate Agreement and its sustainability. This is still the case in 2021, perhaps in 2022 and perhaps in 2023. I should therefore be careful not to exceed the 1990 level by less than a quarter in all years, but specifically in those years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u117	That's very good. Do I understand that the PBL will give a reflection on this in the autumn, so that we can talk about it again and see where we stand and what is needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u118	We have the regular reports of the PBL that we can use anyway, but specifically the adaptive strategy needs to be clicked on a little earlier. We're gonna do that a little bit of string. We'll do that in September. Then we will see whether specifically corona, for the years in which we make this arrangement and lay down in the law, is a reason to make that reduction less difficult. Once again, it should be established that corona actually has an effect on 2021, 2022 and/or 2023. We'll see about that by then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u119	We asked the Minister why there was no mention in the documents of the workers in the coal power stations and the chains. There is attention to the owners and the disadvantage compensation. I understand now that I liked the Minister's statement that he talks when jobs are lost. I'd still like to get a little further. The Minister says we're going to use coal less. Of course, this costs already jobs in the supply chain, for example. Is the Minister prepared to start discussions with the trade unions on jobs and on what arrangements should be made?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u120	I wanted to join as much as possible and make use of the experiences with the Hemwegcentrale. Then there was extensive consultation. I ask Mrs Beckerman to leave the timing of what I'm going to discuss with whom to me. Talking to one person can affect the conversation with the other. I want the freedom to set it up in a convenient way. We are trying to mitigate the negative effects on employment as far as possible. This means that I look primarily and above all at places where employment could be the most at stake. That's at the plant. Coalo-report is also available in other areas. There are fluctuations in it anyway. I therefore focus, by analogy with the Hemweg arrangement, on where the effect occurs. Nor do I have the illusion that I can actually compensate for any indirect effect. There may also be fewer toilets on the Maasvlakte to be cleaned as a result of less coal overlay. It stops somewhere. I am simply trying to be reasonable, with some Dutch integrity, to ensure that our climate policy is not at the expense of employees in the coal power stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u121	I see a good commitment in that. We really missed it in the pieces. The coal fund or the Westhaven arrangement, as I believe it is officially called, has naturally come to the Hemweg plant because trade unionists have entered into this fight. It would be good if that were to apply to others as well. I understand from the words that it's coming. I will probably come back to it in the second term, because I really hope that the Minister will do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u122	Whether it becomes completely identical, I can't judge from this, because everything turns out to be tailor-made after all. But I said that I would like to learn from this in detail and look at the arrangements at the Hemweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u123	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u124	Then I come to the other input of the various spokesmen in this Chamber. It was Mr Van der Lee who asked for the note on the reduction of, in his words, fossil subsidies. I think he is asking for motions tabled by Mr Van Raan. Can we do that? No, isn't it? Well, well, well. Then I don't know if it's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u125	Mr Van der Lee can explain it for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u126	It is an adopted motion that I have tabled, in which I am not talking about 'grants' but about 'financial incentives'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u127	I think you just said "subsidies," if I wrote it down correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u128	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It happens more often that you think you hear "subsidies."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u129	Well, we're gonna read it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u130	That motion was passed almost two years ago. It asked for a picture of the phasing-out path and to include it in the INEK plan that the Netherlands would submit. That didn't happen. In another debate, you said: I will be presenting a separate note before the summer of 2020, showing how the financial incentives will be reduced. I wonder where that note is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u131	I admit it: I'm just curious. I will get an answer to that in the second term. If I have failed, without knowing it, then I would like to apologize for it, because a commitment is a promise. Thank you for using the word "stimuli." Then there's the heat bill. It is my intention to consult them this month. I shall then pay attention to the various objections that have been raised. I also got a piece from the heat coalition. I'll go into that. I won't do that now, but I will when the law is ready for consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u132	How active you are, Mr. Van der Lee!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u133	That is because you tell us that, when we get commitments, we have to be careful whether they are being implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u134	Yes, very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u135	In one of the previous debates, the Minister promised me that, before consulting the law, he would indicate in a note whether he had changed his mind and how he would like to organise the heat market. He made that promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u136	I've sent a letter about it before. The consultation with the various stakeholders is so intense and abundant that I do not know if I am still able to send a letter in advance. But perhaps Mr Van der Lee will forgive me if I combine that with the consultation, which is also a way of asking society what it thinks about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u137	Yes, but I would have liked to avoid many unnecessary discussions. From the Chamber there were a number of comments about the letter you sent. We have tabled a number of motions, including Mr Harbers, and we have kept them. I asked for a follow-up before the law was brought into consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u138	Yes, but the points raised then, including the perpetual clue, have been taken so seriously and I have done so much work on this, that I simply cannot do it anymore. But that does not necessarily mean that we have had abundant discussions about this and I quote Mr Van der Lee. Perhaps that long reflection will keep the discussion a little bit more concise. I hope so, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u139	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u140	Let's see. Mr Sienot asked about the implementation. And Mr Van Raan even asks for a timetable per measure. This may require a little too much of the planning tools. Look, the measures have been put into effect immediately. Each department involved in this is aware of the fact that six of them are working on their own premises. This applies to the built environment, agriculture, mobility, etc. I believe there are six leaders involved. All these parties are in the process of legislation. Grant schemes shall be established. These govern ments will report separately to the Chamber, as agreed. It is planned that some measures will enter into force technically by 2020 without claiming that they will have a very significant impact on emissions by 2020. I don't want to be that tough. I mean, I don't think chest beater in the Urgenda file is on the table. I'm not much of an expert on breast-knocking anyway. I'm taking a class now, and I'm doing a snooping session with colleagues. Mr. Chairman. The next question...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u141	Following this disenfranchisement, will the President allow me to give Mr Wiebes a symbolic touch over the sphere in order to compensate him?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u142	Yeah, symbolically. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u143	No, no, I don't need that. Not that! I'm trying to do my job. How's the execution going? There's still a point to that. Mr Sienot would like to know about this. I think it is also important for him to know that the Urgenda Foundation supports these measures and is actively involved in some measures. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is working with the Foundation on a campaign on specific measures. Mr Van Raan asks for a timetable per coal power station. I think I've indicated the timeline. There will no longer be a legislative proposal in Q03 which does not in itself aim to close, but to reduce. So this is the timeline. If we are in a great hurry with each other, I wish myself and Mr Van Raan to be in a hurry, then we can benefit from lower emissions in 2021. The Party for Animals also asks whether we can know anything about the reduction achieved before the recess. The point is that we don't measure this technically. We are not measuring the reduction, but we are measuring the actual emissions. We also measure these actual emissions with a delay of three months. The CBS measures this and three months later you know the exact answer. This also means that emissions from just before recess can only be expressed in the autumn. Unfortunately, this makes a commitment in his direction impossible. I too think it is a sensible question to follow. It's a meaningful question, but I'm not making this happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u144	Have you answered all of Mr Van Raan's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u145	Yes, I have answered all of Mr Van Raan's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u146	Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u147	Let me begin by saying that I am pleased that the Minister says: 'I have been kept to the verdict in the years after, because I cannot be allowed to fall below that 25% reduction'. It's very good that he's saying this. By the way, this is not a merit, I would like to say. He brings it a little like "look at me."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u148	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u149	But this is just part of the verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u150	Sure, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u151	I also note that he says: 'Some measures need some lead time to work, so I can't help it that we might be a little late'. This is really weird, because then you just started late. I think it's a good thing the Minister acknowledges that he just started too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u152	I've done that before. I said we should have stayed on the safe side sooner. We didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u153	One of the ways in which he can make this right, or at least better, is by showing what the impact of the measures is. The disadvantage of the CBS report is that it always shows the measurement results compared to the period of the previous year. There are also measurement methods to show it. Urgenda has a measurement method for this. Is the Minister prepared to look at this and use this type of measurement method more than once a year? It is logical that this has been delayed; of course everyone understands that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u154	The CBS is just measuring this. The results come only with some delay, which made it technically impossible to accept Mr Van Raan's request. We recognize the following equestrian. I have said it before and Mr Van der Lee has even quoted me: we can safely see that we should have been on the safe side. The difference between the estimate at the end of 2019 and the estimate in mid 2019 was huge. I would have been up to the four that were in the middle of 2019, but that eleven washed me away for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u155	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u156	But indeed, we should have stayed on the safe side. I was just trying to say with my remark that there is no reason to be very triumphant here. I'm trying to do what I have to do, but in retrospect, we should have stepped firmer on the accelerator in the past. Mrs Beckerman asks: shouldn't we make more rentals more sustainable? Yes, the sustainability of more rentals is of course part of this package. We'll do that with the landlord tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u157	Mr. Kops was for Mrs. Beckerman. Mr. Kops, is it true that you keep the order of the spokesmen? Or is this just...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u158	I have heard Mr Kops make a very long plea, but not with specific questions to me. At least I didn't recognize them as questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u159	I find it a little strange what the Minister is saying here, because I am, of course, not in vain to make a whole speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u160	Yeah, but it wasn't me. It was a very meaningful argument, but I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u161	I did ask a number of questions. I hope that someone has written along, because I am not going to repeat my whole speech and the questions asked. Of course, that doesn't make any sense. At the very least, I expect the Minister to respond neatly to what I have said and not just ignore it. It's the least he can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u162	I started with a response to the argument. I have given that honour to Mr Kops. I haven't written down any specific questions, and the people who write to me aren't helping either. I am, of course, prepared to answer any of Mr Kops' questions, provided that they can be answered by me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u163	One of the questions asked was whether the Minister is considering the consequences of the ruling of this climate judgment. Does he expect further statements of this kind to be made in the future? I am certainly asking this in view of the fact that the Netherlands now has a Climate Law, which this Minister is also in favour of, especially in view of all the international climate agreements and especially in view of the European Green Deal that is still to come. Doesn't the Minister foresee that with all these agreed climate agreements there will be many more trials?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u164	The question about the broader meaning of the verdict was also addressed in the first letter on Urgenda. As far as my latest information is concerned, the Minister for Justice and Security will address that question in September. The debate on the tension between the different legal systems, which was also mentioned in Mr van der Staaij's speech, must be held with him. I am trying to execute a verdict here, but I am abstaining for a moment from considering the legal system which led to those rulings. I am in no way capable of speaking to you on behalf of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u165	At the beginning of the reply, the Minister said something similar: we are simply going to implement that judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u166	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u167	I think he was just saying literally: it is not up to me to comment on the substance of that judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u168	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u169	I find that very easy. I would like to know from the Minister what he thinks of this verdict. It is the State that has gone into cassation. The Minister himself explained this as follows: that was done because we want to know whether a judge can sit on the seat of politics to this extent. That was the reason. So that's exactly what the judge did. The judge sat down in the chair of politics, and also in the chair of this minister. It sounds a bit like a disappointment when the Minister says: that's why we go into cassation. That sounds like a sort of judgment: I do not think that the judge should sit on the seat of politics to this extent. So once again, what exactly does the Minister think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u170	Mr President, without commenting on the quality of the case law, you can ask two questions, in substance and in principle. The government's policy for the ruling was not in line with the precise requirement of the Urgenda Foundation and it may be inferred that the State cannot have had this now enforced policy as a preferred policy. That's clear. It is not for that reason, but for another reason, that we have brought that appeal, and that was to clarify, in the last instance, by the Supreme Court, whether there is a case in which the judge sits on the seat of politics. The goal was to clarify that. The cabinet's commitment was in the form of the pleas of the state attorney. That clarity is there, and that is why the objective has been achieved in principle. That's what I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u171	Finally, Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u172	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. If you're wondering if a judge is allowed to sit on the seat of politics to this extent, you're just asking that question because you think you shouldn't. That's why you're asking that question, and that's why the state went into cassation. So it has become clear that the judge has said: yes, we can sit on the seat of politics to this extent. So I ask the Minister whether or not he agrees? And is he not actually disappointed that he is forced by the courts to implement a certain climate policy by means of all kinds of climate laws and international agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u173	The state's approach, prior to the Supreme Court, can be found in the plea of the state attorney. That was the cabinet's commitment. The goal was to get clarity. That clarity is now there and that is the goal that has been achieved. That is my view on this. I'm going to see Mrs. Beckerman now. She's asking about the rentals. My point is that that is what is happening, because that is the measure of the 150 million landlord levy. This is an acceleration of measures in the built environment. The package also contains even lighter measures that allow residents to operate themselves. That's a certain acceleration. I do think we should acknowledge that we have not appointed the test areas for nothing. It is a huzaren task to do that built environment. It's not something where you just turn a button to make society run a lot faster all of a sudden. So it is also something in which we run into society's absorption capacity. We cannot, therefore, accelerate unbridledly, but this acceleration was considered feasible. Why would the State pay companies to comply with the Environmental Management Act? No, you won't! That's not where the resources go. The resources will be placed in measures for the competent authority, such as municipalities and environmental services, to free up additional capacity for monitoring, enforcement and information. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Staaij has already answered the two basic questions in response to the section on this subject, I think. But maybe I should be honest and more modest and say "unanswered" and "displaced."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u174	I'm going to see Mrs. Beckerman first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u175	Still, about those social rentals. The Minister says we will. It will, of course, be a very strange discussion, because the Urgenda proposal certainly does not carry out the cabinet. That proposal is to abolish the entire landlord's tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u176	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u177	And that is indeed not what the cabinet does, because the cabinet actually comes up with a drop in the ocean. Of course it is very difficult to do a lot of homes at the same time. But at the same time both tenants already say cooperatives: but there is much more possible. We still see houses with label F and label G. The people who live there have a towering energy bill. Why not just help those two or three labeled properties? You make five wins. People have low energy bills, they have a better home, we get the climate targets, we can turn off the gas tap even faster and we can create jobs. I really cannot accept that the cabinet says 'we do so, but to a limited extent'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u178	No, we don't do that to a limited extent. We'll do that until 2050 for everyone. Except we're gonna do it over the next 30 years because you can't do everything at once. Look, I fully agree with Mrs Beckerman's statement that there is still a lot to be done, but that is precisely why it cannot be done at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u179	The fact that not everything can be done at the same time is completely clear and that we cannot change the past is, of course, the same. But if there is one thing that is essential for climate policy, then it is acceptance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u180	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u181	And justice, that anyone can participate. That's something that's repeated all the time here. But if there is a group that has paid in recent years but has not been able to benefit, then those are the low-income people. And now we see in the corona crisis that the CBS says those people are hit the hardest too. Then surely the most logical outcome is to say: just for that group we are going to run one more step faster?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u182	Mrs Beckerman's suggestion that tenants would be less sustainable than buyers should be slightly balanced. I don't think that's right. Tenants can do this a little faster thanks to the corporations. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is responsible for this operation, has considered that this is the pace that she can cope with and I am very happy to keep to it. Promising something you don't do doesn't make any sense, especially when it comes to executing a verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u183	Indeed, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy has already addressed a number of questions that I had referred to. He referred to the Minister of Justice, and that was actually my question. When's the letter coming? And can the Minister of Justice also comment in that letter on aspects identified in my contribution? Then we can help the discussion in that way. That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u184	I myself believe that the Minister of Justice is capable of a great deal, but I will pass on this request to him and my final information on when he intends to go into it is 'in the autumn'. Mr Van der Staaij was also concerned about the cash slides. He says, "ho, ho, we'll all be spending money now and maybe we won't make the goals later." Most of the cash slides are intended to bring forward measures which would be structural in the future. So that means that you are putting forward the structural measure at the same time and the budget for it. This does not mean that the final target is at risk; it simply means that you start earlier and can prevent more tonnes of emissions in the meantime. Mrs Mulder's strongest statement was that housing corporations would not have significant access to the SDE. I am somewhat alarmed by that statement and have also encouraged me to make a moment's discovery of the truth, but I will not contradict it at all. I'm not quite sure what she's saying is true. It could be. But I know that there is a problem, and she is right about that. No, I don't necessarily agree with housing corporations that the netting arrangement wouldn't fit them. I do think that there is something that Mrs Mulder is referring to, I think, about obstacles to housing companies to use that SDE, and I do not agree with her. What is going on here is that legislation allows housing corporations only to make investments if they directly benefit tenants, and that word "direct" does not apply here. This is the beautiful Netherlands, in which things are always recorded very precisely. That is generally good, but then you have to change it as soon as it is necessary. She has a point to make. The Minister of BZK will have to amend the Housing Act for this purpose. It will do so and it will send a bill to the Chamber before the summer. This means that there will be more room for housing corporations to use the SDE. It will also enable them to make better use of the Zip code rose scheme. Mrs Beckerman has a point to make: this must be done and 'before the summer' is the information I have on what the Minister for Foreign Affairs can do here. It also calls for the requirement to be relaxed with regard to the steps taken. Ain't two steps enough? That, I believe, is about the RRE scheme. It should be more ambitious. That too is a matter for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I think I agree with her that if you want to qualify for funding, you can really take a step. It's true that you can't get those three steps with solar panels alone. It is also true that if you want to get those three steps, the inclusion of solar panels is desirable. So the measure works, but is slightly more ambitious than two steps. I can really follow her in that. I also understand that Mrs Mulder says: with two steps, smaller packages can also be accepted. But here's the BZK minister's assessment that more ambition would be appropriate. Mrs Mulder asks if Timmermans' green money is also for the Netherlands. I'm gonna have to give you an order here. First of all, the Netherlands is also known from the media to steer a manageable budget. We think that is very important. Then comes the discussion, but also the discussion, that there must be fair access for all countries, including the Netherlands, and then use these goals. I agree. Step one is that we will first have to agree on a manageable and reasonable budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u185	Did you answer all of Mrs. Agnes Mulder's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u186	Almost. I just want to compliment her. She has made a final statement on green recovery, involvement and the living environment. I believe she even referred to the CDA election programme. I haven't heard a question, but I think the passage will be able to get back into the program in no time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u187	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u188	It came out of the beautiful report She side by side, partly, but I don't mind if that gets into the election programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u189	Oh, okay, then it comes out somewhere else. Sometimes I'm a little behind on the CDA literature.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u190	You can always catch up. We don't mind at all. Mr. Chairman. I think it is a good thing that we are sparing our money that we are bringing to Brussels, but it is also a good thing that if we do one thing, we should not leave the other. I don't want us to leave the other in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u191	That's what I heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u192	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u193	Mr Moorlag is using the debate not only to talk about my portfolio, but also about others, and not just about CO, but also about nitrogen and all kinds of chemicals. I get what he's saying. He says: haven't we learned enough from something too late in action and shouldn't we move on with other things? On the other hand, if I were to take his request literally, I would indirectly lose my colleagues. I would then give the impression that they would not have this firm commitment, or that they would not be ambitious, or that they would not be able to achieve it. Moreover, I am not in a position to judge independently of all conceivable chemicals or molecules whether it can be done faster at all and whether it makes any sense at all, so I am a little reluctant about that. But I think that colleagues are listening and perhaps they can come back to that in debates that Mr Moorlag has got going on. At least his call is clear. I've already answered the rental question to Mrs. Beckerman. I think there's gonna be an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u194	As I stated in my contribution, the Minister is not competent. I've fully acknowledged that, too. But he does have an interest, because reduction of nitrogen is often also a reduction of greenhouse gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u195	I'm going to make a procedural remark for a moment. Next week, we've cleared a whole day to debate nitrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u196	I am not going to say anything about nitrogen at content level, but I am going to say that the reduction of nitrogen is also accompanied by the reduction of greenhouse gases. We have a collegial board. It's called "the Council of Ministers." The Minister may see it as an incentive on my part to strive for synergy. I have said enough about this. The second point. With regard to rentals, the Minister said: I refer to the answer to Mrs Beckerman. We are facing a severe economic recession. There will need to be an economic stimulus package. In my view, this is about creating as much value as possible for society. And if we can achieve lower energy bills for the tenants, create more jobs and reduce CO2 emissions, should you not now go beyond the measures taken on the basis of the Urgendavonnis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u197	Let me put it this way. When we think about the situation after the emergency package 2, we will remember that we have to do all kinds of things to get the economy back on track as soon as the virus allows it. A logical thought, one of the building blocks in that can be: speeding up investments that you were already committed to. That could be investment in infrastructure. These could also be investments in industrial infrastructure, with hydrogen. These could be investments in housing. And it could also be investments in the Climate Agreement. I recognize that in general. Let me study on how all that should be. I am now thinking exactly about how to get through that period after the real period of support, and how to pull things back together. I think that's a sensible idea, but just give me a little time to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u198	Sure, because I think we can give the Minister some support and support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u199	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u200	And in the end, we also have to set frameworks. After the generic approach, the approach must be more selective and targeted. I am therefore very much in favour of maintaining employment in construction, combined with sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u201	Clear, clear. In previous crises, I think we did not pay sufficient attention to construction and construction volumes. There is no doubt that Mr Moorlag will refer to this. So in general, I agree with him. Mr Harbers is still asking about the specific measures in industry. These are very specific measures; that is not generic. These are really concrete companies that have made an offer to take non-compulsory but very concrete measures that prevent cost-effective emissions. That could be in the nitrous oxide, in the heat recovery, in steam exchange, and you name it all. So it's about that sort of thing. But these are very specific companies, which do not necessarily appreciate it if I say it all here. And there isn't a uniform timeline for all of them, and sometimes there are some uncertainties in that timeline, because it's about techniques. I have every confidence in it, so do the companies themselves. They agreed to that, too. In some cases, there is also a need for a State aid test. But I would like to say to Mr Harbers that I will return to this as soon as I have more clarity. In any case, it is very cost-effective and voluntary. It appealed to me that we could do so, with the help of industries. The greenhouse horticulture issue, I think, is about the ODE. That plays wider than just in greenhouse horticulture. In the food industry there are also companies that notice the shift of the ODE. That makes sense, because if you move ODE somewhere, there's a group happy, and another group isn't happy. But some of them are not very happy, and there are also things that could be of some concern. That's what I'm looking at, along with my colleague from LNV. It really seems to be Prince's Day before I can come back to it, either with a solution in one atmosphere or with a measure in another. The extension of the SDE and the postponement of that year. Mr Harbers asks: can that apply automatically here? "Automatic" seems to go too far, but where necessary, that is available and can be made that slider. Mrs Dik-Faber is right to say that we should take people with us. That's crucial. But there's another perspective on that, too. Because now it is not only simply impossible, but also really undesirable to send every Dutchman a message about how his home will be dealt with when. That simply cannot be done. We have an operation ahead of us that lasts a generation. If you used to talk about a generation, you'd talk about 25 years from now, but given demographic developments, you're talking about 30 years when you're talking about a generation. Three decades we take the time to tackle the entire housing stock. That's not what the Empire does. The Empire lays down conditions. The Empire ensures that this can be residentially neutral, in the average cases. The Empire has asked the municipalities to set up counters. But other than that, it's a municipal issue. It is also important for the nearest government to do so. And it makes sense that the local government hasn't done that yet. Until 2021 it is also in conversation with all kinds of experts and knowledge centers to find out what the ideal heat solution is for all those people in all those neighbourhoods. It's got to be done right. If you don't, you're gonna hunt people down, or they're not gonna warm up. So that's important work. Then they come to the neighbourhood, in a cadence, but over a period of 30 years, in people at the door with a package that is wider than just "this is your heat solution." It's also about questions like, "How do we do that?', "How do you control that?" And "how do we fund that?'. This includes financing arrangements. The municipality is the logical window for this. To be honest, I would have been rather worried if we had now put a letter on the bus with every Dutchman saying 'you are next in 2038'. That is not exactly what Mrs Dik-Faber is asking either, but I just want to say that it is a very long journey. We do not now have the pretence to tell every Dutchman that. A lot of people know that, too. They say, "Well, it's gonna be a while."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u202	Did you answer all of Mrs. Dik-Faber's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u203	No, not yet. She also asked about the campaign. That is quite a justified point in itself. In the past, in an earlier debate, she could also understandably be ironic about that campaign. In the meantime, I have noticed that Mrs Dik-Faber feels that the budget for this is too small. I can understand that, too. On the other hand, it is not the case that we want to tell every Dutchman through that campaign that he now needs to do something about his house. That's not the approach. That's what we want to do neighborhood by neighborhood. We have really opted for this in the Climate Agreement: a neighbourhood approach. All at once: that was the ideal solution. We didn't want to do it half and amateurish and we didn't want to bet on the wrong things. So the campaign isn't rigged to tell people what to do about their homes now. The campaign is perhaps not the most important tool for drawing people's attention to this. After all, we have chosen to focus information and the campaign on the moment of purchase of something. So if you're looking for a washing machine, you need to get on the screen which washing machine you can choose better than another and how much that saves. That's a more powerful way than telling people in general. So it's a carrier, not to tell people what to do about their house and not to tell them what kind of washing machine to come, because that's what other instruments are for. However, I have noticed that Mrs Dik-Faber is not convinced by me that the intensity of that campaign would be sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u204	Mr. Sienot, I'm going to Mrs. Dik-Faber first, because it's been here for a while. Yeah, I'll keep an eye on everything. You may stand there, but Mrs. Dik-Faber can take the other microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u205	I am not concerned that we are now going to send a letter to all people from the government saying "this and that is what is going to happen to your house," or "you can do this in your own situation." But I do see that there is a climate agreement that goes completely over people's heads and that the government is making a lousy attempt to take people, with a campaign that hardly anyone knows. And it just fails. If I ask people if they know about the Heat Fund, they don't know. We all know it, but people don't know it. We think it is a huge success story of the Climate Agreement that there is a Heat Fund and that people can get a loan to take isolation measures. But people don't know that. So I really see a discrepancy here between a reality in The Hague and the reality of people like our neighbours or family, as we all do. How are we going to get people into this energy transition?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u206	People don't know about the Heat Fund. With the people we come to because the neighbourhood approach affects them at that time, we should not leave residents unaware of the Heat Fund. That's different when it comes to someone sitting at home and now it's not their turn. The question is whether you want to focus the Heat Fund on that. You want to focus that on the people who say, "Oh, my God, I'm going to have a period with a lower energy bill, but for that time I have a lot of women and men in everywhere in my house and a lot of dust in my house and suddenly I have to put a lot of money in it. That earns itself back, but I can't put it on the table anyway." You want to enable such a person to do so, but you need to do so as an integral package, so that there is also funding from such a Heat Fund, for example. But there are also other arrangements conceivable. In all kinds of ways you want to take care of people at the time, but I don't think it helps to shoot hail and focus a very big campaign on the economical mixer. It's really about the big stuff. That's where we have to take people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u207	The minister makes it a little bit of a caricature. That's okay, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u208	No, that's not what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u209	The Minister just suggested that I would have asked for a large campaign budget, but I am not asking for that at all. I am concerned that we are going to translate the Climate Agreement into the everyday reality of people and that we are giving people an action perspective. To save energy you can put an expensive heat pump in your home, but you can also isolate your home. How are we gonna take people in there? That's just my story. How can we get into those living rooms like the Postcode Lottery, as I said in the past? They know people very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u210	And it does have a bigger budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u211	It's got a bigger budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u212	Sure. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u213	I'm not asking for a bigger budget; I'm just asking for effectiveness. Again, this whole transition falls or stands with support. I just don't see that the support is increasing, while people are at home a lot and are also willing to invest in their home right now. I can see that, too. So I think there are plenty of opportunities. Let's get 'em.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u214	Yes. I'm not much of a campaign strategist either. The biggest dialogue you have with people and which is by far the most decisive factor when it comes to your home, you don't do with a campaign. That dialogue is about the moment you say: the gas is really going off; there must be a different solution in the years to come, but we are starting now. You don't do that with a campaign. Maybe we agree with each other. That's a very special moment. That goes from kitchen table to good information up to and including funding. That's not what the campaign's about. The campaign isn't about buying the refrigerator or the mixer either, because that's what you do when you buy something. It's about the underlying awareness that something's going on. I am aware that Mrs Dik-Faber thinks that this is not very convincing, if I may put it that way. I will pass that on to the people who are thinking about such a campaign, but I do not have the illusion that a campaign is the most important contribution to support. For example, if you speak or go with those who consult with people in Purmerend door on the other heating of their home, including insulation, the hot water solution, the cooking solution and so on, you will see that there is no alternative but to gain support in this way. I refer to Purmerend, because when I came from there, I was very impressed by the person who does. That's, I think, pure support. There's no campaign against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u215	Good. But you take the point of...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u216	Dik Faber's words have nevertheless arrived, but I don't have the answer right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u217	But you did take her point, you just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u218	I always take all the points with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u219	Well, about the campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u220	I'm through the first term now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u221	Has there been a question left, Mr. Sienot?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u222	No, I have one more question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u223	Oh, come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u224	With your permission. You're always so strict!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u225	That's not so bad, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u226	Kordaat, and that's good. My point. I'm going to go further on this point, because there's just a lot of low-hanging fruit. Now we're gonna be pretending we're not gonna do anything for your house until we ring your doorbell. But we're ringing a bell at a lot of doors of people who aren't necessarily waiting for that. Now 50% of the Dutch are willing to get rid of the gas. They're excited about that. We always talk about the other 50%, but this 50% is there. That's low-hanging fruit. They start their search online, and then one big gribus of information begins where one knows no way out. They find all kinds of advisors they can't trust. What I want to give the Minister and ask him is: does he also see that we should take that low-hanging fruit? We can get into each other's hair over a campaign, but when we talk about effectiveness, it starts behind the screen, behind that keyboard, when people orientate themselves. That's where you need to reach them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u227	In any case, I think we should'serve' that 50%, let me put it this way. The other one, too, but this one's 50% sure. I am not convinced that they should always be advised to go along with individual solutions, because that can really be just deadlocks. In fact, that could be really damaging. You could lose support with that, too. I think that in many neighbourhoods the collective solution is the better one and that it is the municipality that has to direct it, because otherwise we are all going to drill holes to get rid of our heat pump or make noise on the rooftop chapel because there is a heat pump there. So I think collective solutions are often best. But that too should be seen; I agree with Mr Sienot. And where individual solutions are good... Look, I'm one of those people who will be hobbying on the web and I'll also come across all kinds of clear information from the government. But that is not Mr Sienot's experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u228	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u229	In conclusion, Madam President, as a liberal, I say to the other liberal: I do not think we are talking about whether it should be collective, but if someone chooses to get rid of the gas and make their own choice, then it is about finding the right information. And we can help with that a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u230	I think I can add something to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u231	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u232	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u233	Of course, I did that whole exercise on the Internet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u234	All of us here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u235	Suppose I need a new kettle, where do I come from? Then you just end up with commercial parties and certainly not with government websites. And if you get to government websites, it turns out that they're all very high about that... And then all that has to be climate and stuff, and then I just totally quit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u236	Does it say "climate"? That's weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u237	Yeah, that's really weird. Anyway, it doesn't really help you any further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u238	That wasn't my experience, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u239	Then I think: if you are looking for "boiler" and "replace" and adjacent words, then it would be nice to know that you need to contact your congregation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u240	So call Eric now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u241	Well, I really think that's very practical. Well, there's a phone number in there, which is pretty handy, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u242	Well, I'm not gonna do that job until after.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u243	Perhaps I will finish my question before Mr Wiebes answers in between. So I can imagine working with the VNG on this: is it very clear and clear where you will end up in all these municipalities and is the resident at least being reminded of what he might be thinking about before he joins the first commercial party? Fortunately, residents still trust their congregation, so let's just use it. We know that. We need to make things a little easier for them, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u244	At the same time, we can hope that 'commercial companies' too, Mrs Mulder, with a critical face, will lead their customers and citizens to a sensible solution. She'll agree with me, won't she? Nevertheless, I have heard her words well and I will try to google again to see if I can get to the good parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u245	Mr President, thank you for giving me the opportunity to say that I love all those companies that are enthusiastic about renewable energy solutions. But they're not all in that position yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u246	That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u247	If not all the staff have been trained, then you will be able to reach that old kettle and then the place will be replaced again, because it can last for a few more years. And it's cheaper, so it's not all that attractive. So before you know it, we're back with old solutions. And then I think: Minister, make the right arrangements with the sector so that they will be in that new position. Let them train their staff well. Now's the chance. Let's take that opportunity. I think that's something Mrs Faber would also like to see right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u248	Thank you, Mrs Agnes Mulder. That brings us to the end of the government's first term. Mrs. Dik-Faber, you have another question? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u249	There is a question I have left, and I think it is a matter of urgency. We have talked about acceptance and about bringing the citizens along. Now there are citizens who have joined forces in a cooperative. They have concrete projects and are in the starting blocks to work with solar panels to generate energy themselves. We've reserved grid capacity. Municipalities don't know by whom, how many and for how long. And it all happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u250	Yes, you asked that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u251	I will reply to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u252	Fine, then the Minister will return to that in the second term. Let us now move on to the second term of office. Mr Van der Lee on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying and explaining the adaptive coal measure. We received a letter, but it was very brief. Today, I understand a little better the way in which this measure is implemented. But in order to record that a little better, I have a motion. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Urgendavonnis obliges the State to achieve a structural CO reduction of 25% by 2020 compared to 1990;]] [[noting that it is also unclear by the COVID-19 recession whether the Urgenda objective of the supplementary policy package is being achieved in a timely and structural manner;]] [[Whereas, in 2021 or shortly thereafter, as a result of economic recovery, CO emissions may increase again rather than decrease further;]] [[Calls on the Government to take into account the additional reduction needed to implement the judgment in 2021, 2022 and the years thereafter when measuring the coal measure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-521]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u254	Then I read a operative part of a motion of 16 January 2018: "The government, in the yet to be drawn up integrated national climate and energy plan, also requests that proposals be included to introduce such incentives" "which thus stimulate fossil fuels "to be phased out, and to accelerate this as sustainable alternatives become more available." That motion was passed at that time, but it didn't work out in the INEK... Ah, look, I'll get an answer to that later. One more question, but the answer can be given at another time. The SDE funds, 670 million, have also been used to co-finance this package. That's how I understood it from the letter anyway. I was wondering if we could get an overview of how that money would be used. We called it "not pretty" yesterday; I don't think it can be done this way. But I do want to know exactly what that money is spent on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u255	Thank you, Mr. Van der Lee. Mr Sienot has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u256	Thank you, Madam President. At least today we are taking a significant step. As far as D66 is concerned, it will also be a structural step. We're gonna have a good look at it in the fall. I would like to ask the Minister if we can do this. receive a letter on the progress of the implementation of the measures. There's a lot of them and they're important. It's also good to know where it might be pinching and what we can do. I would also like to ask Urgenda and all the other organisations that have contributed to these fantastic solutions, above all, to continue to think along and send proposals, because that really brings us to that 1.5°C society. Personally, I would prefer us to meet at the opening of another beautiful new energy project or another beautiful innovative project, than to meet each other in court every time. So I hope that's how we're going down the road to the 1.5°C society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u257	Thank you, Mr. Sienot. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna try to join the positivity of D66. The first point is, of course, that Mrs Mulder also finds global warming a crisis for the first time. Although still in slow motion, it is still a crisis. That's profit. It is also a gain that the Minister admits that he started too late, and that deserves a praise in this context. That offers hope for the future. After all, a Biblical tinted statement reads: no saint without a past and no criminal without a future. Because he's been called to order by the court three times. I have a number of motions that might help him with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u259	I'd start with it if I were you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u260	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I will. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to make a maximum effort to reduce Dutch greenhouse gas emissions as quickly as possible even after reaching the 2020 Urgenda target,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to provide an additional package of measures to ensure that the 2020 greenhouse gas reduction target is not met,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, as of 2020, the Netherlands no longer has any sustainable reduction targets for greenhouse gas emissions;]] [[calls on the government to set strong intermediate targets for reducing Dutch greenhouse gas emissions for the coming years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-522]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-523]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-524]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u261	And then the last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in order to adapt climate policy rapidly and flexibly, it may be useful to report frequently on the emissions reduction achieved and the impact of climate action already taken;]] [[calls on the government to monitor more intensively the progress of the Dutch emission reduction and to report on this several times, but at least four times a year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-525]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u262	Then I've got ten seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u263	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. You'll have to take the motions and hand them over to the clerk. Mr Kops has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u264	Mr. Chairman. Honor to all who deserve credit. Clairvoyant Mr Sienot said in the first time that I would probably come in second time with a motion with a certain scope. And it is. If Mr Sienot so wishes, I can, of course, put his name under it now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw immediately from the Paris Climate Agreement, in accordance with Article 28 and all other (international) climate agreements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-526]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u265	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u266	Thank you, Mr. Kops. I now give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will not invent my own Bible texts or anything like that, but just read my motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the ban on coal-fired power generation, the reduction of emissions from coal-fired power plants and/or the closure of coal-fired power plants lead to job losses and further uncertainty for workers in this chain;]] [[Whereas all coal-fired power stations will eventually close down coking plants;]] [[Considers that people are entitled to training, work-by-work routes and, if necessary, to pay, in the case of coal spillover and transport (the coal chain);]] [[calls on the Government to make funds available to these workers in consultation with the trade unions and to come up with arrangements such as those made in the Westhaven Arrangement at the time of the closure of the Hemweg plant, based on the agreements in the Climate Agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Van Raan and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-527]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u268	I hope, of course, that the Minister will say that it will support policy, or that he will embrace the motion. I hope so, of course, from the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that point 1 of the Urgenda 40 point plan concerns the major renovation of rental houses;]] [[Whereas this renovation operation not only represents a major step in the reduction of CO emissions, but also provides additional jobs for tenants and a better housing and lower energy bill;]] [[Whereas this measure creates the necessary support for climate policy;]] [[calls on the government to launch a major renovation operation for the sustainability of housing, starting with the social housing sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Van Raan and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-528]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u269	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u270	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the answer. I would also like to thank Mr Van Raan for the fine quote about that hypocrite without a past, nor a criminal without a future. I immediately thought: that is not in the Bible, but where did it come from? I think it's a statement from Church Father Augustine from the fourth century. Thank you for that. We're gonna take it from this debate. It is good that on the point of the more fundamental considerations "what does this mean for the relationship between the powers?" to speak on after hearing from the Minister of Justice and Security in the autumn and in a letter. Finally. In the case of something that the judge has to do, there is always a risk that politics too may have a tendency to say: how can it be that this measure should be taken? It's the judge's job. It is a bit the erosion of politics if you have to say too quickly that it has to be from the judge or from Europe. I think it is very important to support the policy of cleaner and more economical, to say as much as possible that we want to defend it ourselves and that we consider it important ourselves. That is ultimately necessary for the support. That is why I believe that Mrs Dik-Faber also mentioned another: working on this basis of support for measures is extremely important for the future of this issue. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u272	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u273	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to the Minister for replying. Colleagues already responded that they thought it was special that you were so interested in the CDA election idea. Maybe. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister intends to encourage corporations to arrange large-scale sunshine on the roof of social housing;]] [[noting that the SDE+ is currently not easily accessible to housing corporations;]] [[noting that housing corporations will only receive a tax discount if they improve rental houses with at least three energy label steps;]] [[calls on the Government to urgently explore the possibilities of increasing access to the SDE+ and other instruments for housing corporations and to engage in discussions with the corporations in order to achieve more sunshine on roofs of social housing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-529]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u274	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u275	I call Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u276	I'm not very good at quoting Augustine, but maybe I am from Jan Köller from Borgsweer. He once noted that in a barrel of wine, in his opinion, there were more miracles than in a church full of saints. There was no need for a barrel of wine and no need for saints, but it took a room full of judges to get to this Urgendavonnis. Mr. Chairman. If you don't jump yourself in time, you're gonna get pushed. I said on that point that we must avoid it. We must abide by our own goals and standards. That applies to CO, that applies to nitrogen, and that applies in general. That's part of good and good governance. Mr. Chairman. I shall now move on to the reading of the motion, otherwise I will be in a mess with my speaking time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas additional investments are needed to meet the democratically defined emission targets and comply with the Urgenda ruling;]] [[Whereas the sustainability of housing reduces emissions and reduces the energy bill, but is also a desirable and necessary boost for the economy and the maintenance of jobs in the construction and installation sectors;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the construction sector and representative organisations of homeowners, tenants and landlords, to develop an acceleration approach and, in the context of the response to the recession caused by the corona crisis, to mobilise resources for this purpose;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag, Mr Beckerman, Mr Van Raan and Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-530]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u277	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u278	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union. Go ahead, Mrs. Fat-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister and I sometimes differ in opinion on the creation of support and a public campaign. I'm sorry about that. In terms of objectives, we agree, but I am sure we still have a lot of discussions and debates on how to achieve them. The Minister sent a letter to the Chamber the day before yesterday. I read in it that the campaign is being shaped in accordance with a growth model and that there are still thematic campaigns. Well, I guess that's what I've been hoping for. I hear the minister is, too. The campaign seems to score even better than the average government campaign. Anyway, I'm not gonna review that, but I'm gonna find some of that. Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions right now. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions. There's one question left. I would like to stress that today is also a beautiful day. We have produced a whole package of measures involving citizens and businesses. That is the way the government has to work: as an ally of citizens and businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u280	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. Then we have reached the end of the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u281	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u282	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Lee owes me a date on which I can carry out his motion, namely a letter on incentives. This will be Prince's Day. I already apologized. Mr Van der Lee wants an overview of exactly what the SDE+ funds are spent on. This, of course, is reflected in the various budgets. It's being set in motion there. Maybe this is exactly why he wants it to be central somewhere. I'm gonna try this. I would like to combine this with the letter of progress requested by Mr Sienot. I hope to be able to send a letter sometime in the autumn with that progress and resources. This is going to be one document. I hope the gentlemen can live with this. Mrs. Dik-Faber has paid attention to the reservations. No, it's not possible to reserve, because it's non-discriminatory. So we all have the same right. It is true that large parties obviously have more experience in this. They're coming in early. This can also mean that there is no room for other things. But there is a fixed period, which is the same for everyone, in which the capacity still available is retained. Then it will be released again. Then everyone will be treated the same. This is also transparent and non-discriminatory. Then I get to the motions. The motion in part No. 521.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u283	A quick question. Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u284	I have a question about this. I hear there's a reservation. The Minister also says this can be done. But it seems that projects by citizens, cooperatives, cannot take place. So I do have the following questions. Then how long is this reserved? Can a reservation be renewed if necessary? Who's gonna lay down the rules of the game?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u285	I'll admit I've come up with the rules of the game, but I don't have them right here. This may also require some clarification. I'll come back at some point in a letter that comes in... Let us say that the rules of the game must be clear before the summer. I am simply saying to Mrs Dik-Faber that I am sending the rules in writing in one way or another.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u286	We have another debate on climate and energy on 2 July. Would it be possible to send that information to the Chamber for that debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u287	Yes. Yeah, you can, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u288	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u289	It is good for all of us to see the rules of the game from time to time. Mr Van der Lee would like to confirm by motion what I have just promised him. I'll give you the motion in part no. 521 Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u290	Yes, pay attention, Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u291	There is something in it that I do think is important, because I do not want more coal to be used after 2023. So I think it is important that the following years are recorded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u292	Yes, but this motion does not state that we will never again produce coal-based until 2030. It says here that the verdict must be enforced. It's not about coal, it's about emissions. The motion calls on me to ensure that it does not go well in 2021 and 2022 and goes through the roof again in 2023. That is what this motion calls upon me to do. This does not directly relate to how many coals are fired. That's another matter. But the motion as it stands here, I can give judgment Chamber. This is also in line with the commitment I made. Mr Van Raan wishes to make a motion, the motion in part No. 522, ensure that we make a maximum effort. I understand he wants this. If Mr Van Raan were prepared to provide for this ceiling with the Climate Agreement, I would be happy to give a ruling to the Chamber. But I don't think he's thinking this. I don't want to be faint either, but I think I should advise her not to; unless Mr Van Raan is rushing down now to say that this will already be the case with the implementation of the Climate Agreement. Then I'll give her judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u293	Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u294	That's the problem. We know that the Climate Agreement does not lead to what is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u295	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u296	So I can't do that, because then I would agree with something that isn't going to achieve the goal and which isn't in line with that 1.5 C. It would be better for the Minister to give this motion judgment Chamber, so that he can feel free to do the maximum.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u297	I understand, but then the best way to do justice to Mr Van Raan's motion is to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u298	Yeah, I thought so. If you hadn't interrupted...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u299	Then the motion to part No. 523. It's sympathetic, but impossible, if you think about the motion. It says here that we have a goal for 2020 and we still need to take action if we do not achieve that goal. The measurement is at the end of 2020. However, that is no longer possible. This motion is therefore not possible. You don't know you didn't make it until the year's over. If you already believe that there is too little wind there, then there is no point in putting measures into effect, because they will not have any effect in calendar year 2020. Of course, that's a bit of a tragedy. I have already admitted that we started too late, but starting here now is too late. Then Mr Van Raan would imitate me in the beginning too late. We shouldn't have that. So I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u300	I would first like to deal with all Mr Van Raan's motions and then he will have the opportunity to make one comment on them. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u301	Then I come to the motion on part No. 524. Mr Van Raan asked about the intermediate targets. I'm gonna have to advise against that motion. The objective of the Climate Agreement is 2030. Then I come to the motion on part No. 525. Mr Van Raan asked for a report on emissions on several occasions a year. There is. That's what the CBS does. If he's making this so compelling, in the form of a motion, I have to assume he wants something else. Then I'll have to discourage the motion. The CBS provides for this in principle, with some delay, but several times a year. That would make it possible to judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u302	That was the last motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u303	Yes, those were Mr Van Raan's motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u304	Yes. Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u305	It is my destiny for the Minister to make four statements here, of course, while I can only make one comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u306	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u307	Then I have to choose carefully and do so at the motion in part No. 523. I am quite prepared to see if that can be formulated differently, but the essence is that the Minister himself, yesterday, indicated that he is likely not to be able to say with certainty that he is achieving the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u308	I can't say for sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u309	If you already know that you're probably not gonna make it to the target, nor can you say for sure that you're gonna make it to what you're doing right now, then you should actually do more. That is what this motion is about. So now we can be some kind of word artist...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u310	No, I'm trying to put it briefly, but it's definitely about the content. If I now come to the conclusion that I need to do more, the launching of measures for 2020 will no longer make such sense, because these measures will no longer have any effect in this calendar year. That's the tragedy of this. They're pretty serious answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u311	Okay, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u312	I do not want to let go of words on Mr Van Raan, but I would like to remind him of the lead time. The motion in part No. I advise against Mr Kops's 526. Then I come to the motion on part No. 527. That's too bad, because I was on the road with Mrs. Beckerman. Yes, I know, but it would be a historic agreement if we had, forever and up to and including the closure of all coal power stations, all government-funded arrangements, funded by all public funds. No, I can't do it like that. I have said that, within the framework of Urgenda, if a party decides to close the plant and could prevent that from happening in the arrangement with the government, we will, by analogy with the Hemweg arrangement, ensure that solutions and arrangements are put in place for those who can and want to take responsibility for it. This is true in the event that it may be, which is not the standard policy at the moment. This motion is wider on all sides. It is the government that pays and it goes on forever about all coal plants. I'm sorry, I can only discourage that motion. But my commitment to Mrs Beckerman still stands. The next motion by Mrs Beckerman, on item No. 528, I have already advised against it in the debate. So this was motion number eight. Number nine is the motion of Mulder and Beckerman in part number one. 529. I'll give that motion judgment Chamber, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u313	Mrs. Beckeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u314	Those people in the coal power stations and the coal chains are of course of interest to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u315	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u316	I was therefore wondering how I could change the operative part so that the motion could be judged Chamber. Would it not be possible to say 'if necessary, is the government asking for arrangements to be made for these workers in consultation with the trade unions'?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u317	First of all, I have just made a statement on the hypothetical closure of one plant in the context of Urgenda. Nor have I suggested in any way that the funds should all be made available by the government. That was not the case with the Hemweg either. If I can agree with the commitment I made, Mrs Beckerman has already made that commitment and does not need to be supported by a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u318	Finally, Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u319	The great thing about the Hemwegcentrale was that that arrangement was also in the Climate Agreement, because that is of course a kind of security that people can fall back on. I thought a motion like that might well confirm that. And if I change it so that it says "requests the government if necessary" so that is when it is necessary to take out "in consultation with the unions" and the piece of money, then I think you are there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u320	Mr President, I find it difficult to write the SP motions. I made a commitment and I think that is reassuring for Mrs Beckerman. I have also been tempted by her input into the debate to make that commitment, and I do not think there is any need for a motion for that. Then we have motion number...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u321	...nine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u322	That motion, in part No. 529, I've already given judgment to Chamber. The tenth motion, in part No. 530, I find it complicated, because it is very explicit not about my area. I cannot now ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs about this, so I cannot give advice on it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u323	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u324	I would therefore ask that the motion be submitted to the govern ment in question. They can react much more to it than I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u325	Or what?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u326	Otherwise, I'm gonna have to discourage her, but the motion might do the wrong thing, and that's what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u327	Mr. Moorlag, what are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u328	Very practical, a commitment is worth more than a motion. Does the Minister wish to make an effort within his peer-reviewed board?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u329	I also find it complicated to agree to the efforts of colleagues. It's just really a different wallet. I know that the cabinet speaks with one voice, but that is always the right mouth and not this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u330	What are you gonna do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u331	I'm gonna hold her up, because it would be a shame if the motion were rejected for procedural reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u332	Rejecting a motion for procedural reasons is neither a graceful construction. That puts me through the motions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u333	At the request of Mr Moorlag, I propose his motion (32813), No. 530). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u334	That concludes this debate. I thank the Minister. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament and, of course, the messengers, who have cleaned up hard so that we can do our job this week. I would also like to thank the clerks, the stenographies and the people who have followed the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-9.u335	We're going to vote on the motions next Tuesday.
