ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u1	At present the issue is the treatment of the legislative proposal Amendment of the Participation Act and some other laws relating to the elimination of discriminatory distinctions between second degree blood relatives and others who have a common household with a need for care (35174). I had already welcomed the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u2	I would draw Members' attention to the fact that Mrs Pouw-Verweij will be making her maiden speech today. After this maiden speech, I will address Mrs Pouw-Verweij and briefly suspend the sitting for congratulations. I give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. I am grateful to speak today about the present law on the elimination of discriminatory discrimination between second-degree relatives; by insiders also called the brother-sister law. Although I am aware that I am speaking today on behalf of the Forum for Democracy in the field of social affairs and employment, I would like to place this law within the broader framework of care. After all, you can take the doctor out of care, for example to sit in the First Chamber, but not the doctor's care. Older people's care has been broken down in the last seven years. In 2013, VVD, CDA, D66, GroenLinks and ChristenUnion adopted laws aimed at allowing older people to live longer at home. In theory a nice thought: after all, many elderly people themselves indicate that they want to stay at home for as long as possible. In practice, however, this turned out to be a lot more difficult. While no less than 800 nursing homes had to close their doors, the requirements for nursing homes were also increased. As a result, there was a virtually unstoppable gap between living alone at home and being admitted to a nursing home. The elderly who fall into this hole face many problems. We see problems in terms of well-being, food and plenty of getting out. Older people have an increased risk of malnutrition due to various factors, such as reduced taste, smell and appetite. For elderly people living alone, food also no longer has a social function, while in the nursing home it can motivate to eat anyway. With insufficient help these older people will not get out, because the threshold to take the rollator and take a walk is a lot higher only than with a nurturing one. We also see an increase in mental and emotional problems, such as loneliness and depression. The Elder Fund reports that more than half of all elderly people are lonely. And although home care can sometimes offer help, this care is very different from that in a nursing home. Where in a nursing home help or care can be asked for or made a chat, home care workers are bound by strict schedules. These grids are becoming fuller and busier, because home care is also being cut back. Finally, we see an increase in medical problems. Complaints such as loneliness and depression lead to physical complaints, such as palpitations. This will get older people into the emergency room. Although they are not ill enough to be admitted, they cannot go home either, which often requires long-term hospitalization. Every year, over 300,000 elderly people are admitted to hospital unnecessarily, leading to an additional 300 to 700 million. Markant detail: closing the nursing homes only yielded 70 million a year. The vision of the Forum for Democracy on care for the elderly must be clear: care for the elderly must be much better and targeted at people rather than systems. We call for the promotion of mixed forms of housing, for example through multigeneration housing or by letting students live in a nursing home. We also want to invest more money for a more creative implementation of neighbourhood care and home care to ensure sufficient hands on the bed. And last but not least, that brings me to the present Mr. Chairman. In our current health care system, having sufficient family care is essential to take care of elderly people who are no longer able to live independently at home, but who are also unable to live in a nursing home. The law we're discussing today is about people with a concern, who live with their brother or sister. Under the current scheme, they are not regarded as married persons and therefore retain the right to a benefit, irrespective of the income of the other. Because this discriminates against non-blood relatives living together in the same way, the Supreme Court has decided that the law must be amended. The Secretary of State proposes that the income of the other person should always be taken into account, so that the right to a benefit may lapse. Mr. Chairman. My group has three major objections to the amendment of the law as it stands. Firstly, there is a discouraging effect on carers, especially now that care is essential, given the inadequacy of our care for the elderly. Secondly, a household in which there is a heavy demand for care is not comparable to a normal household because there is dependence. Thirdly, as a result of this law, we expect a financial noose for those involved. I would like to explain these concerns in more detail. Our first objection: discouragement of essential care. As has just been mentioned, for the elderly there is a big gap between living alone at home and being admitted to a nursing home. Since home care has also been cut, carers have to jump into this hole to take care of vulnerable elderly people. The amount of care that is needed will only increase over time. The cabinet itself estimates that the number of vulnerable older people will increase to 1 million in 2030. More than a third of the self-employed 75-plussers are vulnerable. At 80-plussers, this is as much as half. As has been said, it is becoming increasingly difficult to get a place in a nursing home. Caring is therefore essential to care for this growing group of vulnerable elderly people. What does the Secretary of State think of this need for care? Does she agree with us that reducing or dropping a benefit has a deterrent effect on the provision of care? If so, does she have any idea how her colleagues at the VWS Department intend to deal with this concern in the future? Our second objection: dependency in the care relationship. Living with someone who cares 24 hours a day is hard. After all, there is no escape from it even if you want to take care of that person as a co-resident. Let us be clear: that is the group we are talking about today. A Wlz indication is only given to people who need care in the vicinity 24 hours a day to avoid serious harm. The Secretary of State himself states that the relationship between parents and children is considered exceptional. In this situation, there is a relationship of dependence. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State the following. In a household in which one of the two has such a high concern, there is also dependence. I would even say that this dependency is greater than between healthy adult children and their parents. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's views on this. If this law is not limited, but rather extended, so that all households in which there is a question of care are entitled to maintenance of a benefit, this should also apply to married persons, the Secretary of State states. This is strange to my group. When we get married, two people make all kinds of promises to each other and undertake duties. One of these obligations is the maintenance obligation and it dictates that they must take financial care of each other. This is not the case with any other form of coexistence. It therefore seems logical to us that married persons should be excluded from this law. This also applies to people with a social contract. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State why she feels that marriage cannot be excluded, while duties are so different. Our third and final objection: financial burden on carers. I mentioned earlier that it is virtually impossible not to provide care in a household in which the other has a serious concern. Many people will take on this form of cohabitation precisely because they want to provide care. This means that they will have lost time to provide this care. Time they can no longer use to earn income. As a result, it is very likely that they will give in financially at all by choosing this form of living together. Now we might think that if two people move in together, the rent and fixed charges of one of the two houses will be dropped and the benefit of one of the two will be best removed. However, it is forgotten that this benefit is not used purely for residential expenses, but also for other livelihoods, think of simple things such as food costs, health insurance or the own contribution for medicines. All these costs remain and would then end up on the plate of the other. If, in addition to the reduced ability to collect income, the cost of living also comes on the board of the caregiver, the financial noose becomes gigantic. As a result, such care will become something that only the rich can afford. Mr. Chairman. We recognize the safety net function of the assistance. We also understand that the ruling of the Supreme Court requires amendment of the law. However, the Central Board of Appeal indicates that an extension of the current law is desirable. Several bodies, such as the National Client Council, support this. Because of our objections to discouragement of essential care, the relationship of dependency and the financial burden on carers, this seems to us to be the obvious option. Finally, it seems to us that extra attention should be paid to the adaptation of the law in the context of the corona crisis. As mentioned above, this law concerns households in which the person receiving care has an indication of admission to a nursing home. On April 11, het Parool headlined: "In nursing homes, the blows fall. We are the trenches of the corona war." In our view, therefore, it is completely unacceptable to adopt a law which could lead to the inclusion of more elderly people in nursing homes. We would like to ask the Secretary of State whether she also considers the timing of this law inappropriate and whether she is prepared to postpone it. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's thoughts on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u4	Thank you, Mrs Pouw-Verweij. My heartfelt congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. After your secondary school in Nieuwegein, you studied medicine at the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam. Since your graduation in 2015, you have been affiliated with the VU as a doctoral researcher and have obtained your PhD in rheumatology and nuclear medicine. During your studies in Amsterdam you worked for five years as a nurse at Cordaan Thuiszorg, you were a research assistant at Astellas Pharma, junior medical trainee at Medical Center Alkmaar, medical and senior medical trainee at various host homes and hospitals, and student assistant at the VU Medical Center. In the meantime, you joined the Forum for Democracy, which was established in 2016, and was active in the youth organisation, among other things. Your experiences in healthcare, especially in home care, were also a motivation for you to be a candidate for the Amsterdam City Council in 2018 on behalf of Forum voor Democracy. In that campaign, you argued for more hands on the bed and more place on the Emergency Service in Amsterdam. During that election, you were in place ten and obtained three seats for the Forum for Democracy in Amsterdam. A year later you were elected, now in the Provincial States of Utrecht, the province where you now live again. On behalf of the Forum for Democracy, you are committed to communication, culture and heritage, living, living and urban development. Against Trouw, you were not surprised at the election victory of the Forum for Democracy and I quote: "I heard that people have had it all in many places lately. They see the need for it to be different." Three months after you were elected a member of the Provincial States of Utrecht, you were sworn in as a member of this Chamber. That care and well-being are at your heart, you have recently shown outside the Chamber in videos of your party about COVID-19 in which you are right behind the caregivers. Today, in this plenary debate, you have also expressed your motivation for care and well-being. Once again, welcome and we look forward to your further input. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that Members can congratulate you. I would ask you to stand up for the rostrum for the congratulations, and I would like to congratulate you first as President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u5	I give the floor to Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Pouw-Verweij on her beautiful maiden speech. The history of this bill goes back to September 2003, when the House of Representatives adopted the Noorman-Den Uyl/Bakker amendment in the debate on the then Work and Assistance Act. The level of assistance shall be determined, as is well known, on the basis of whether the person concerned is married, single or unmarried, with a common household. Under the WWB, a sibling living together with a sibling was treated as married persons, for whom a joint income and property test applies, and not as single persons, for whom a separate resource test applies. The amendment provided for an exception to this provision if there is a need for care in one of the second degree relatives. The cohabitation discount would not apply to them. The amendment introduced a distinction between second-degree cohabiting relatives and unmarried cohabiting non-blood relatives. It's a little complicated, but I think this is right. A young enthusiastic Secretary of State for Social Affairs, you all know him by now in a slightly different role, the amendment strongly advised against the argument that this new distinction 'leads to unequal treatment of all other unmarried cohabitants in the WWB, one of whom is in need of care'. All in all, the then State Secretary concluded that there is "a legally extremely vulnerable route." It wasn't supposed to benefit. The amendment received majority support. That amendment led to a more or less dormant existence until the Central Appeals Board in 2016 found that there is indeed discrimination and that the exception should therefore also apply to other unmarried cohabitants with a common household and a need for care. The Supreme Court, and here it is, confirmed the Central Council's view on the presence of discrimination in 2017, but the decision of the CRvB on the wider application of the exception was expressly annulled. According to the Supreme Court, the extension of the exception chosen by the Central Council is contrary to a principle of the Participation Act, namely that, in situations of a common household, the resources of the partner must be taken into account, irrespective of the degree of kinship. The Supreme Court states that, as an alternative, the deletion of the provision is also possible, but that this choice is up to the legislator. In view of the judgment of the Supreme Court, the only real legal way to eliminate the discrimination found is to delete the derogation. And that is exactly what the bill does, no more and no less. For the right political frame, it is important to note that this bill, which I fully understand, is not about family care or the cost-sharing standard. This is important for the quality of this debate. In fact, cost holders are not treated as married persons and are selfemployed persons in the assistance, even if there is a need for care. The group that does, are cohabiting relatives in the second degree who run a joint household and one of which has a need for care. It has to be considered primarily, it has already passed by the caregivers with an indication for long-term care, the so-called Wlz indication. This necessary care can be obtained at home or in an institution. These are also people who are permanently dependent on daily help. Mr. Chairman. Defining the proportionality of this bill is and remains a difficult matter. The answers of the current Secretary of State to questions from the Second and First Chambers, including my group, about the size of the target group offer little guidance. We know it's a very small group, but we don't know how small that small group is. Moreover, the Secretary of State cannot do so much about this lack of knowledge. Family bonds such as those between brother and sister or grandparent and grandchild are generally not administered. If that is the case, it is often non-systematic. In short, we have no information about the wealth and income position of people with a Wlz indication and a roommate. The trick of this is that we do not have a clear picture of the individual members of the target group. That puts questions in advance when it comes to the feasibility of this bill. How do we actually trace the blood relatives in the second degree who will be affected by this bill, my group asks. How do we even track them down? This is also at stake in the communication process. How do we guarantee that we will actually reach all the victims? Can the Secretary of State reflect on the relationship between the lack of target group data on the one hand and the intended effectiveness of the legislative proposal on the other? Where are the biggest bumps in feasibility? And how is she going to handle these bumps? How did she respond to the Peters/Van Dijk motion? Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group stresses the need for an empathic information pathway towards those involved. This is a vulnerable group of people with an acute need for care. How are we gonna tell them the story? How are we gonna explain it all? Of course, this is primarily a task for SVB and VNG, but does the Secretary of State see a role for himself in this sensitive process? How do we ensure that the government for the group of affected is also a close government, an understanding government, a tactful government? This is particularly true in cases where there are serious consequences. Fortunately, the Participation Act offers municipalities the policy space to tailor the assistance to the "conditions, opportunities and resources of stakeholders." This space allows customization for distressing situations. In the discussion on this bill, the Secretary of State continues to draw attention to the importance of individual tailor-made work. It refers to the established policy freedom for and of municipalities in the social domain. My group underlines the opportunities offered by the Participation Act to municipalities to conduct independent policies, including for the target group we are talking about today. The evaluation of the Participation Act of the SCP shows that municipalities implement this policy area in a variety of ways. Decentralisation of powers can go hand in hand with differentiation in approach. This is the result of a national government which grants a certain degree of autonomy to municipalities in the social domain. However, that raises the question of how to ensure that relatives who are in financial difficulties as a result of this proposal are given similar help. I told you, it's a vulnerable group who can't always stand up for themselves. Can the Secretary of State promise the Christian Union Group that it will ensure that no groups are excluded? We do not want blood relatives in the second degree to refrain from carrying out a joint household due to adverse consequences for their welfare benefits. Mrs. Pouw mentioned that in her maiden speech. The Council of State also expressed concern on this point. Can the Secretary of State clearly indicate how she intends to prevent this? Does she agree with my group that such consequences are highly undesirable and run counter to the independence and self-reliance of the group concerned? My group also draws attention to the recent report by the College of Human Rights on the position of people with disabilities. The concern of the college is that the deletion of the derogation is detrimental to the self-direction and independence of people with self-limitation. The cohabitation discount makes it less attractive for second grade relatives to form a household together. Can the Secretary of State respond to the position of the College? Does she share the concern about the impact of the bill on the participation of people with disabilities? Is the power test an obstacle to living independently? And will this lead to a greater appeal to professional care? Mr. Chairman. My group asks the Secretary of State if she has considered simply offering financial compensation to the second degree relatives for the elimination of the discriminatory distinction. It is a small group, so compensation will also be limited. Can't the government wear the financial penance rug here? What order of magnitude are we talking about? It is precisely because we are dealing with a target group that is struggling financially and socially, that the Christian Union Group is pleased that the House of Representatives has agreed by amendment that the transitional period has been extended from 12 months to 14 months. That gives extra time for customization, for a solid safety net, precisely given the impact that the bill can have. In all these considerations, it should be stressed that the approach of this bill is not of a financial nature. The group's too small for that, too. There's no austerity mark. And if there were, the proceeds would be negligible. The only reason is the ruling of the Supreme Court that the current distinction between relatives and non-kins is discriminatory. The alternative solution, which has already been suggested by a number of parties and which will come a few more times this afternoon, is to extend the existing exception to all joint households of non-blood relatives with a need for care. But this theoretical solution runs counter to the intention of the Participation Act. The Supreme Court also points that out in its ruling. After all, the assistance is the safety net and final part of the Dutch social security system. Joint income shall be involved in determining the level of assistance. We're talking about a partner test. Deviating from this guiding principle and abandoning the partner test really requires a thorough rethink of our assistance system. We're not gonna take care of that in the afternoon. This requires a fundamental discussion, which also affects other social provisions. Here, moreover, the primacy of the House of Representatives applies. The Supreme Court ruled that the exception for second-degree relatives is contrary to the prohibition of discrimination. The legislator acts accordingly by dropping the exception. The Council of State states that the chosen solution of the Cabinet fits into the system of the Participation Act. My group notes that the previous cabinet in the drafting of the Participation Act did not consider undoing the exception and deleting the partner test. In short, the Christian Union Group believes that we should not use the ruling of the Supreme Court to scale up the benefits of second-degree blood relatives in the draft law before us to an advantage for all composite households where there is a need for care. That is too fast and too little thought-out. This alternative route calls for an in-depth debate and a thorough preparation. That transcends this bill. It is now important to ensure that the removal of the distinction between second-degree blood relatives and non-family relatives reduces the adverse consequences for the first group and that we ensure a generous transition policy. On the first point, I would ask for a clear commitment from the Secretary of State. The second point, as has been said, is firmly anchored in the House of Representatives. I look forward to the answers of the Secretary of State to the questions of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ester. Mrs Sent, on behalf of the Labour Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u8	Thank you, chairman and messenger. Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate Mrs Pouw-Verweij on her beautiful maiden speech. I really liked the contribution. Everyone must be able to participate, through work in the social workshop, in the business community or in the government. This is important for us as a society, but especially for people themselves. Especially for people who, like all of us, want to move forward with and through their work in their lives but need a little more help than we do. Because work creates economic and financial independence, contributes to self-esteem and contributes to a strong economy. That was the starting point of the Participation Act and some other laws. Everyone has the right to assistance in line with the Participation Act. The level of this is partly determined by whether you are married or single. When these laws were introduced, it was decided not to treat parents and children as married persons. There is also an exception for second-degree relatives, i.e. siblings, grandparents and grandchildren. As an additional condition for a joint household of second-degree family members, one of the two must have a need for care. Think of entitlement to placement in an institution that provides care funded under the Long-Term Care Act, or if someone is unable to conduct his own household and is dependent on intensive care due to physical or intellectual limitations or long-term psychiatric problems. This exception for second-degree relatives is important because the standard of benefits for married persons is relatively lower than that for a single person. In addition, the property and other income of both persons are taken into account in the case of married persons. As a result, there may also be no or lower entitlement to assistance and one may have to contribute to the cost of the other's existence. Mrs Pouw-Verweij has explained very well what the philosophy behind it is. The reason for the legislative proposal lies in the case law. The highest administrative judge in welfare cases, the Central Board of Appeal, has held that there is an unlawful distinction and unequal treatment in the Participation Act of cohabitants in an existing need for care. Furthermore, the Supreme Court has held that there is no justification for a different treatment of the right to assistance of cohabiting brothers and sisters and other unmarried cohabitants, if one of them is caring. Following the rulings of the Central Board of Appeal and the Supreme Court, the Government has decided to remove the discriminatory distinction by removing the second degree of exclusion for relatives with a need for care. The bill follows the line of the Supreme Court. As a result, despite the existing need for care, married persons will be involved in the application of the law. In other words, the income and assets of both parties then play a part in determining the right to assistance, and the standard of assistance applies to married persons. Mr. Chairman. With the government, the PvdA considers that there is no justification for the treatment of second-degree blood relatives with respect to non-blood relatives. With the government, my group considers it undesirable to make a legal exception for cohabiting relatives only in cases where there is a need for care. Unlike the government, we support the line of the Central Board of Appeal to apply the legal exception also to non-family members in the second degree, i.e. wider. Not only the Central Board of Appeal has previously indicated that an extension of the current law, including for non-family members, is desirable in order to eliminate the discriminatory distinction. Several bodies such as the National Clients Council also prefer this. We share that preference. So our starting point is a different one from that of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u9	You state that you support the principle of the Central Appeals Board, but what do you do with the ruling of the Supreme Court, which in fact destroys that part? We in the First Chamber can't just ignore that for a second, can we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u10	As far as we are concerned, there are two ways of eliminating the discriminatory distinction. One way is to stop letting blood relatives in the second degree be an exception. Another is to allow that exception to apply to all cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u11	Then I'll join Mr. Ester's argument. At the moment there is no fundamental amendment to the Participation Act to regulate this, because the Supreme Court has also said that if you go that way, that would be contrary to the Participation Act. I am therefore looking forward to your answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u12	What is also relevant in this case is that these are people with a need for care. It does not therefore apply to households where there is no need for care. In this case, we think it is an important starting point to encourage people to take care of each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u13	Mrs. De Bruijn for a third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u14	The Welfare Act is an income provision. Indeed, it does not rely on any particular circumstances, such as care needs. Then you will also have to amend the Participation Act on that part, and that is not the case here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u15	No, we're sorry there's not another bill before us. Today we are assessing the legislative proposal that is now before us. Our starting point is a different one from that of the government. We find it unacceptable for people to decide, because of the financial consequences, to stop living together as a result of the legislative proposal before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u16	I was a little out of line. I thought the interruption was very intelligent. Your answer was also very intelligent, but still slightly less than the interruption itself. You're here to remove the closing piece under the Participation Act. The Participation Act is the crown jewel of the Labour Party, with all due respect, which we discussed last week. I love it. I like that law. But now you're going to do that. We cannot do that in the slipstream of a debate on a very specific subject. If you want to distance yourself from the Participation Act, you should. That's not up to me. But you're going to have to say that out loud.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u17	An evaluation of the Participation Act has taken place. I think it is highly desirable to make adjustments to this evaluation. What lies ahead of us in this case is an undesirable side effect of the current legislation. You can see that in two ways. You can say that the undesirable side effect is discriminatory, but that the discriminatory distinction can be eliminated by applying it only if there is a need for care for everyone. In this way, you encourage people to choose to live together, precisely in the current circumstances, because with all the corona measures, that is the least bad solution for them. We like to encourage this movement. We do not want to have the unintended side effect of creating barriers there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u18	I think that's very good. But I notice you're moving away from the Participation Act. Again, that's okay. But the Supreme Court says that the chosen solution of the cabinet fits perfectly into the system of the Participation Act. That doesn't apply to the alternative route you're sketching. You also waive a judgment of the highest court in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u19	The Central Appeals Board has indicated that an extension of the current law is desirable. The National Client Council has expressed a preference for this. I have also indicated in my speech why I think this is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u20	Mr Ester with a third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u21	You are absolving yourself of a judgment of the highest judge in this country. You do. As far as I'm concerned, you can do the same, but that's not an innocent game of company. We need to realize what we do when we choose that route in this country. We're setting aside the Supreme Court's ruling. That's not a little thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u22	The Supreme Court has made an important ruling. There is a discriminatory distinction. There are ways to solve that. I propose a way that is not ahead of us, but which is feasible and is also in line with the wish that we all hope to see each other. We find it unacceptable for people to decide, because of the financial consequences, to stop living together as a result of the legislative proposal before us, if there is a need for care. If people want to take care of each other, then you should encourage them instead of punishing them, my group believes. The fact that blood relatives are going to take care of each other and therefore not to live together fits precisely in the image of the participatory society and thus in the Participation Act. In addition, the implementation burden for municipalities is increasing as a result of the present legislative proposal. In addition to the additional checks and enforcement that the deletion of the exception for municipalities entails, there is also the fact that lectures bear the responsibility to look at distressing situations. In this context, I would like to ask for particular attention to be paid to the capacity of stakeholders who find themselves in a distressing situation. As described in "Knowing is not yet done" of the Scientific Council for Government Policy, such circumstances can put pressure on people's mental abilities. In short, it is very doubtful whether the so-called'shrinking cases' can find their way to the lectures. Finally, we must not ignore the special circumstances in which we currently live as a result of the corona pandemic. As a result, people now consciously choose to live together, so that they can take care of each other. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, this must be encouraged and not punished. Mr. Chairman. I therefore conclude with the only question I have for the Secretary of State: lift the discriminatory distinction by extending the law; reward people's willingness to take care of each other instead of punishing them. Let's look out for each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I call Mr Essers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by congratulating Mr Pouw-Verweij on her beautiful maiden speech. I come to another weighting of this bill, but without debate a parliament would not be necessary. So that only strengthens our concentration. This legislative proposal focuses on the principle of equality of Article 26 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (IVBPR). This principle requires equal treatment of equal cases and unequal cases in proportion to their inequality. If a Dutch court finds a situation contrary to the principle of equality, it is up to the legislator, therefore, to remove this inequality. In this case, the issue is whether unmarried cohabiting stakeholders with a need for care under the Participation Act should be considered as single or married. Article 3 (2) and (a) of the Act of Participation lay down the general rule that the unmarried person who has a joint household with another is regarded as married or as a spouse. There is a common household if two persons have their main residence in the same house and they show that they care for each other by contributing to the cost of the household or otherwise. In the case of cost-sharing, a common household is not used. Certain categories of interested parties are excluded from equality with married persons. Today's exception concerns stakeholders who have a joint household with a second degree relative if one of the relatives is in need of care. This means that in the case of a joint household between brother and sister, one of which has a need for care, the income and assets of the caring brother or sister are not taken into account for determining the extent of the assistance. This exception for blood relatives in the second degree has been incorporated into the law on the basis of the Noorman-den Uyl/Bakker amendment. The then cabinet dissuade the amendment because it is at odds with the principle of equality, since in similar joint households between third parties a care requirement is taken into account the partner's income and assets for assistance. The Central Appeals Board considered that this was contrary to the principle of equality, Article 26 IVBPR. According to the Council, the exception applicable to cohabiting relatives in the second degree should not be equivalent to married persons, also in a situation of other unmarried cohabitants with a need for care. The Supreme Court subsequently confirmed that there is indeed a conflict with Article 26 IVBPR, but that the way in which recovery is carried out is for the discretion of the legislator. According to the Supreme Court, the deletion of the exception is more appropriate. That's not just an opinion, like any other opinion. That is the opinion of our highest court. The extension of the exceptions is not derived from the system of the law and is contrary to the principle of the Participation Act in order to take into account the resources of the partner, irrespective of the degree of kinship, when assessing whether a person is entitled to a benefit in situations of a common household. What options does the legislator now have after this judgment of the Supreme Court? The first option is the approach applied by the vineyardier in the Bible. As the owner of the vineyard who were hired workers who had worked all day paid as much as the workers who had worked less hours and even only one hour, could it be said to the married cohabitants: why are you angry because we are good for brothers and sisters living together? The law makes this distinction, so no one is being treated unfairly. But this solution will not work in the present case. If a legal provision is contrary to an international treaty, this inequality must be eliminated. The Central Board of Appeal does so by making the exception of cohabiting siblings with a need for care also apply to the situation of other unmarried cohabitants with a need for care. The Government follows the Supreme Court's suggestion to eliminate any unjustified discrimination found by the Supreme Court. The majority of the House of Representatives also agrees. We agree with the government's choice. The elimination of discrimination by making the exception mentioned applicable also to others who have a common household in which there is a need for care would be at odds with the safety net function of the assistance which is reflected in the principle of the Participation Act in order to take into account the resources of the partner when assessing whether a person is entitled to a benefit in situations of a common household. Moreover, in other areas, there is a risk of conflict with the principle of equality. You can wait for further procedures. That is why we support this proposal in principle, but we have listened very carefully to colleagues and also to their concerns. We'll share it. The members of the CDA Group therefore believe that great care must be taken when implementing this bill. They have therefore taken note with approval of the amendment extension of the one-year transitional period to a two-year period. Mr Ester spoke in 14 months, but it is 24 months. But I may have misunderstood him. Moreover, in our opinion, the Peters/van Dijk motion adopted in the Lower House is an important condition for agreeing to this bill. This motion envisages the possibility provided for in Article 18 (1) of the Participation Act for colleges of B and W to adapt the assistance to the possibilities, circumstances and resources of individual interested parties in situations of distress, such as those likely to come into financial difficulties and thus to a nursing home, including situations which may arise as a result of the removal of this discriminatory exception. This motion calls on the government to agree with municipalities and to agree with them in the next two years to "get a picture of the people who are eligible for this hardness clause, to actually speak to them, to examine where there are financial problems, to resolve them with tailor-made solutions where possible and to keep the Chamber informed of these agreements and progress." With our agreement, we have read in the reply that the Government confirms that it will implement this motion and also points to the possibility that, in case of need for additional care, the care office will assess whether additional arrangements can be used to meet personal needs, for example through a full package at home or a personalised budget, in which the funding of the care is separate from the right of interested party to any assistance allowance. There is also still the possibility of individual special assistance. Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. We ask the Secretary of State to state in detail how it is going to implement this motion and to tell us that within the two-year transitional period it will inform us in detail about its results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u25	Thank you, Mr. Essers. I call Mr Van Gurp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u26	Mr. Chairman. Of course, she may leave the room quietly, but before she left the room, I would like to congratulate Mrs Pouw-Verweij in person, because she made her maiden speech, but also because I think it was an extremely beautiful and substantive maiden speech. I have listened to this with great pleasure. Mr. Chairman. You can never do it all by yourself in life. You shouldn't expect and want the government to take everything from you. Between these two extremes, of a rabid individualism and state domination, we have built a subtle system in the Netherlands. Resolving capacity and citizens' involvement are encouraged. This is secured by a robust system of public arrangements. We should be proud of that. It's a system with a subtle balance. A balance is never stable, of course. The balance between the role of concerned citizens and the role of the government is always moving and there is always the risk that it will go one way or the other. On the basis of two examples from the debate on decentralisation in care, I wonder whether we have not lost sight of the self-solving potential of citizens, with all the problems for the people, but also for the municipalities, which this entails. On the other hand, we see that a heavy burden on the public care system causes the system to become overloaded when there is a crisis, as we have seen in recent months. So that balance is not self-evidently given in a clear way. Don't worry: I know very well that we are not going to talk about the healthcare system in full, but I am going to outline the context, because I think that context is important for the debate we are having with each other. This debate is about the position of brothers and sisters living together, one of whom has a long-term need for care. Others have already mentioned it: in the current legislation, those living together are not subject to a joint resource test. This is the way it was dealt with by amendment in 2004. It has existed for more than ten years and at some point there has been a professional case, where it has been said: why them and not us? A bit of the workers in Mr. Essers' vineyard. At that time, the Central Board of Appeal said that this arrangement should actually apply to everyone if they live together. And then there went into cassation and the Supreme Court said: well, we don't know it yet, it could be, but it might be even more obvious to say that it doesn't apply to anyone, given the safety net character of the Participation Act. In other words and simply put: equally bad is equal. I would add that the Supreme Court did not categorically say that this is the only way it can be resolved. That's suggested here and there. The Supreme Court has said that freedom of choice is up to the legislator, but in line with the Act of Participation, this is the most reason. That's the position. That direction of thought is also embraced by the government. That brings us to this bill, in our view: equally bad is equal. The argument is the safety net character of the Participation Act. Then I'll get to the analysis. What is it and what do we think? I would like to start by saying that GroenLinks attaches great importance to the principle of independent justice. So if the judge in the highest instance taps on you, you're gonna have to add to that. That is what we think when it comes to Urgenda, that is what we think when it comes to the PAS, and that is what we think if it is a statement that might be less convenient for us. So we're not gonna say nothing about it, just keep going. No, it is clear that the current derogation cannot function in this way. That has not yet been given the direction in which you will lift her up. You're not gonna let her apply to anyone, or anyone in a similar situation, with which she's no longer discriminatory? That's a political choice. In making that choice, we are talking about a balance between two fundamental principles in our social system. One is the Participation Network and its safety net clause, the other is that we want to encourage people to take care of each other, that we want to encourage care and that we want to relieve the occupational care system, the institutional care system, as much as possible. They're both true. It's what you choose. That choice is no different, that is a choice in which values play a role. Mr. Chairman. My question to the Secretary of State is whether the cabinet has made this choice as fundamental as it is. And if so, why did the weighting fall out the way it did? The argumentation of the documents and also of this debate so far goes no further than: the Act of Participation is the safety net character. Have you weighed that safety net character of the Participation Act against other government policy choices, options and directions? We are very curious about that. This brings us to where GroenLinks puts the balance sheet. In this balancing of principles, GroenLinks chooses the side of those who choose to live together in charity and commitment, with one of them requiring heavier care. In doing so, you do as much as possible justice to a fundamental principle in our rule of law, namely the ability of caregivers to live an independent life and not to rely more on a care system than is necessary. In our view, it does not really matter what the precise relationship between these two persons is. In this sense, generalising the current provision for second-degree blood relatives to anyone living in a care relationship with someone in need of long-term care would be an excellent development. In short, our arguments are as follows. The choice is first and foremost an ethical choice. Where do you stand in life? In politics and in this Chamber, this is something that should be discussed more often. Secondly, we believe that this is the best way to do justice to the active citizenship of those concerned. Thirdly, this way you relieve the institutional care system, which is also important. Fourthly, we believe that this choice is most in line with what we also discussed last week, namely the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities. Fifthly, I have to use a difficult word, which I always try to avoid. There is also an international treaty on social and economic rights, which sets the bar very high for retrogressive measures, i.e. measures in the social system that work towards a deterioration for someone in need of care. The bar for that is incredibly high. You actually have to have zero alternative if you want to take a retrogressive measure and there is an alternative. Mr. Chairman. These five arguments lead GroenLinks to the conclusion that it is not really a question of roads between two alternatives, but that there is really only one way to go, and that is just the other way than the way the government chooses anyway. I would like to hear a reflection from the Secretary of State on the argument of retrogressive measures in particular, so say about the international conventions other than those on discrimination, because we agree on that. Finally, the support in the Lower House was minimal. Yes, all coalition parties voted for it, but I would add that all other parties voted against it. This is not something for which you have a lot of motions possible in this Chamber, because it is either a or b. In the House of Representatives b was also presented and all parties against a chose b. Now we don't all have to do exactly the same in this Chamber as our partymates across the street. That's not what you're gonna hear me calling for. However, it is an interesting situation which at least indicates that from left to right and from big to small there are parties who insist on taking the other path. You will understand that our request is for the Secretary of State to consider this very carefully. I'm curious to hear your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u27	Thank you, Mr. Van Gurp. I call Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u28	Mr. Chairman. Even though she is gone for a while, I would like to congratulate Mrs Pouw-Verweij on her maiden speech, which showed her intense commitment to the concern. I thank her for that. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the legislative proposal to remove the discriminatory distinction between second-degree relatives and others who have a common household with a need for care. The abolition of the discriminatory provision in Article 3 (2) (a) of the Act of Participation will give effect to decisions of both the Central Board of Appeal and the Supreme Court. In the opinion of the Central Appeals Board, unequal treatment is prohibited by Article 26 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. In fact, in the legal history, there is no substantive basis for a justified difference in the treatment of cohabiting relatives in the second degree and other non-blood relatives in which one of them has a need for care. The Supreme Court has also reached this judgment. By the then Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, our current Prime Minister Mark Rutte, when considering what was then called the Work and Assistance Act, it was stated that there is no justification for the unequal treatment resulting from the accepted Noorman-den Uyl amendment. According to the Central Appeals Council, the argument put forward by the law to make an exception for blood relatives in the second degree because there would be only a small group of people who have no income and a pressing social problem. The existence of a relatively small group is not in itself a justification for unequal treatment of equal cases. Furthermore, it is not easy to see why the second-degree relatives who have a joint household because of the need for care of one of them would have a more pressing social problem than non-kins in the same situation, according to the Supreme Court. Mr. Chairman. I have reviewed the Acts of the Work and Assistance Act of that time in the First Chamber, but as far as I have been able to verify, the said discriminatory distinction has not been raised in this Chamber. That is an omission for this Chamber, which claims to have a high regard for the assessment of legislation on constitutional quality. Admittedly, it was at that time a comprehensive legislative proposal, which was mainly dealt with here. This subject, which concerned only a small group, may have escaped the attention of this Chamber. The lesson I myself learn from this, as far as I was not already aware, is to remain extra critical of the assessment of amended legislative proposals. But I'm going back to the review of the repair proposal that's now before us. Like at the time the Secretary of State and also the Dutch Parliamentary Group of the VVD, who voted against the Noorman-Den Uyl amendment, the VVD sees no objective arguments for making an exception for cohabiting relatives in the second line. The legislator will have to eliminate this discriminatory distinction. The debate is now on whether this discriminatory distinction should be removed by deleting the disputed exception or by extending the family-to-family clause. The VVD Group believes that, in a broad application, we are talking about all those who form a common household and who have a need for care, including married people. We do not see any justification for treating married people differently from unmarried cohabitants living together as married. A wider application is also contrary to other legal principles. The Supreme Court concludes, on the basis of the judgment of the Central Board of Appeal, which therefore proposed that the exception for second-degree relatives also be applied to others in a similar situation, that this solution is not clearly derived from the system of the law. "According to the Supreme Court, the choice of the Central Board of Appeal is clearly contrary to the principles of the Participation Act." According to the Supreme Court, it is then up to the legislator to choose between the alternatives offered. With the present legislative proposal, the government's choice is therefore to delete the discriminatory provision, thereby respecting the principle of the Participation Act. The VVD attaches great importance to that. Indeed, the Participation Act regulates assistance as a financial safety net to ensure an income on the minimum subsistence level for people who are temporarily or permanently unable to work. In the case of a benefit, account must be taken of the partner's resources and assets in the context of a joint management system. If this principle is abandoned in a situation where one of the partners is in need of care, the foundation will be removed from the safety net principle of assistance and a very large group will suddenly have access to the assistance without checking whether there are sufficient other means of subsistence. The Supreme Court also acknowledges this by stating that it would act contrary to the principles of the Participation Act. The House of Representatives supports the government's proposal and has therefore not decided on a broad application and has also stayed away from the discussion as to what this would mean for the principles of the Participation Act. We in the First Chamber are not in a position to deal with this substantially differently. We can only accept or reject the law. Then the question remains as to what the consequences would be if this Chamber were not to adopt this bill. Because, of course, I also hear the introduction of colleagues here today. Mr. Chairman. Minister Donker Curtius motivated the existence of the First Chamber in 1848 as follows. "The task of the First Chamber is not to establish good, but to prevent evil." All senators' reflections on how one wants to compensate carers for lost income because they lovingly care for their partner, a brother, a sister or a friend, are humane, but fall into the category "want to do good." However, that is not what is expected of us now. Although it is an unwritten rule, the First Chamber is expected to review the proposals for legislative quality. And in the words of Dark Curtius, we must prevent evil. In my group's view, it is a bad thing that this bill is rejected by this Chamber. We will then allow the unequal treatment prohibited to continue indefinitely. As guardian of the state of law, can this Chamber not allow this to happen a second time, as at the time, in the treatment of the Work and Assistance Act? Nor would it do our reputation good if, as a result, the judge felt compelled to intervene. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to address the possible constitutional implications of not adopting this bill. Finally, Mr President, the right of transition. It provides that existing cases may continue to benefit from the current derogation for a period of 24 months. Can the Secretary of State indicate how it intends to ensure that municipalities make good use of this time to use all available instruments to best support those involved? I am not just referring to income support, but above all municipalities must also ensure that the possibilities under the health care laws are optimally used, such as, for example, a care package at home or a pgb. It has already been mentioned today so that care for the seriously ill relative in the home situation can be continued wherever possible. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u29	Thank you, Mrs De Bruijn. Mr Schalk of the SGP Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u30	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I too would, of course, like to begin by congratulating Mrs Pouw-Verweij. I assume that Mr Van Pareren will convey it. Mr. Chairman. I want to start my contribution with a mystery from the book The gift of Asjer Lev, by Chaim Potok. I'll read you a few lines. For those who accidentally carry the book: in this edition the page is 268. "I think I'll tell you a riddle," says the rebbe. "I just remembered one and I think I have some time. Would you like to hear a riddle?" "Yes," says Avroemel eagerly. "An old Jew once walked on a road to a city, when the road suddenly split and went in two different directions. Along the side of the road stood a little boy and the old Jew asked him which way to take. The boy said: 'This road is very short, but also very long. The other road is very long, but also very short.' And then the little boy ran away and left the old Jew all alone. What do you think the little boy meant and what road should the old Jew take to the city?" There's a short silence. Mr. Chairman. In my term, I do not have to say much about the dilemma that lies ahead: a ruling by the Supreme Court in which the heavy term "discriminatory distinction" is included means that the government cannot but seek a solution, or a legislative amendment. The so-called discrimination can only be solved by eliminating discrimination. There are two ways to do that. The first route is the route chosen by the Central Board of Appeal. The Council considered that the exception applicable to second-degree relatives should also be applied in the situation of other unmarried cohabitants living together. May I call that the long way, or if you like: turn left? The Supreme Court states that this distinction can also be resolved by deleting the second degree exception for relatives. That's the shortcut, let's say turn right. Next, the Supreme Court does not make a choice, but explains why the choice of the Central Board of Appeal does not fit in with the Participation Act: because this choice is not clearly derived from the system of those laws, the cases governed by them and the underlying principles or the legal history. Next, in view of the Court's reluctance to act, the Supreme Court leaves, in principle, to the legislator the choice between the alternatives referred to above to eliminate the discriminatory exceptions in the given state-law relationship. That's where the government sits, in the person of the Secretary of State. Should she choose the long way, which is short? Or does she choose the shortcut that's long? Mr. Chairman. It's up to us to get the Secretary of State on the road. My group is putting forward a number of points which are crucial to the weighting. First of all, the interpersonal side. In my group's view, it is not advisable, in the case of care for relatives, to equate the position of second-degree relatives with all kinds of friendships. In every serious event in a community, we look first at our husbands, our children and our close family, and then at friends and acquaintances. We don't do that because those last ones are worth less, but because the blood bond apparently demands something from us. You don't let your brother suffer, but with the distant ones, you sometimes make choices. That's a biblical road, too. Certainly, we are called to love our neighbors as ourselves. But first of all, of course, our family is one of them. The first argument in the Bible asks the question: am I my brother's keeper? The answer is yes. And to mention you more, of course, I would like to quote not only from a book today, but also from the Bible...................................................................................................................................................... Mr. Chairman. In this light, from nature and from biblical doctrine, it is not appropriate to settle those who are morally bound to their own immediate family. That seems to be the shortest way, but it is long, because it would allow the calculating citizen to turn away from his first calling to support and assist brother or sister. Of course, this also applies to other relationships, for example friends or acquaintances who jump for each other, but that is not entirely equal. As a result, today's dilemma remains: what is the path to be chosen? The government chooses the shortcut through this bill. In my group's view, however, this is an incorrect and long road. If it turns out that this shortcut is cut off by this First Chamber, for example because the bill is not accepted, then the long road remains, as it has been pointed out by the Central Board of Appeal, namely to include all others in the exception now applicable to the second degree relatives. That is a somewhat longer road, because that means a novelle and perhaps a few other changes to the legislation, for example in the Participation Act itself. That road is long, yet short, because it leads to results. Chaim Potok writes a few more rules, after he has asked the question which way the old Jew should take. "There is a short silence. I just told you. 'The long road that is short,' says Avroemel. There's gonna be another silence. The rebbe and my father are both watching Avroemel. "Tell me why," asks the rebbe. 'Cause the short road that's long can lead him to the river or a mountain, and the man who might not be able to cross, even though the road is short. But the long way takes him to the city, even though it's long. My daddy once told me that a long way that is sure is better than a short way that isn't.'" Mr. Chairman. In my contribution, I have only one question to ask the Secretary of State: which way does she choose? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u31	I would like to ask Mr Schalk to continue his resemblance. Suppose now, you have two brothers. One brother has been lucky in life; he had a high income and has built up a great wealth. The other brother has no high income and no high wealth, but a need for care. If this bill is passed, should the rich brother say: then I no longer have to be my brothers keeper, because that is going to mean that his welfare allowance is falling? That doesn't have anything to do with the relationship between those two brothers, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u32	Of course, I'm thinking the other way around. I thought he'd say the poor brother's gonna take care of the rich brother. Because then, of course, things are completely different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u33	That rich brother doesn't need to be taken care of. Poor brother's in need of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u34	In your story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u35	Yeah, in my story. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Het is dus maar net welk perspectief je kiest.]] If there is a common household and if there is sufficient capital, sufficient income, then is it a starting point of the welfare law to take that into account? That's what makes care affordable, isn't it? If we turn it around and say it should also apply to other unmarried people living together, we will make that concern a lot more expensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u36	Sure. In the special case now presented by the rich and poor brother, could it be that you say: What does it mean for the well-being and feelings of the younger brother, who becomes totally dependent on his rich brother? Besides, I don't think that rich brother's even gonna think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u37	Mr Essers, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u38	That is why I find the Peters/Van Dijk motion, which was adopted in the House of Representatives, so sympathetic. Because they want to protect people who really need it, because they simply have insufficient income and therefore have to go to a health care institution. Then you're much more focused than simply saying "we don't look at the ability of cohabitants and care needs" anymore. That motion makes it possible to act proportionally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u39	Sure, but that motion also makes it clear that there are all kinds of positions imaginable. In the example mentioned by Mr Essers, I understand that we will immediately ask, together with all of us, whether it is still necessary to step in. But those are exceptional situations. In the ordinary, normal environment it's about me choosing my starting point not with the ability of people, but with the interpersonal relationship and with the moral duty that I feel, it's also in line with the Bible..... to take care of your next of kin. The government now provides a safety net for those who need care. Because there is now someone who has a good or perhaps a better income, that person who has more moral obligation than is the case between two friends or friends, in my humble opinion, is actually suddenly "captured" I would say, but that is a heavy word that is affected in his ability and the person who had a benefit does not get it anymore. Because there is another relationship between brother and sister, brother and brother or sister and sister, my group weighs this in a different way than a relationship between friend, friend and so on. This is a weighting that you could also indicate differently, especially if you are going to create or think of situations where the money does not have to play a role.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u40	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I call Mrs Stienen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u41	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the D66 Group, I would also like to congratulate Mrs Pouw-Verweij on her special, beautiful and intuitive maiden speech. And what a resume! I congratulate the Group of the Forum for Democracy on such a wonderful lady. Today we are discussing an amendment to the Participation Act and other laws that eliminates the discriminatory distinction between second-degree relatives. I had to look that up: that are brothers and sisters, grandchildren and grandparents and others who have a common household where there is a need for care. For the D66 Group, it is important that we talk about a long-term need for care as described in the explanatory memorandum on page 4 and not about a situation of informal care or normal care for each other. We'd like to hear how the Secretary of State sees this. Mr. Chairman. Let's consider the background to this change of law. Others have done the same, but this is very important for my group. In 2016, the Centrale Raad van Beroep ruled that, on the basis of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights in a specific case in the municipality of Eindhoven, there was discrimination against other unmarried cohabitants with a need for care due to the exceptions for second-degree relatives with a need for care in the Participation Act. According to the Central Board of Appeal, despite the existence of a joint household, a broader category of interested parties should also be excluded from equality with married persons. The College of Mayors and Aldermen of the Municipality of Eindhoven has brought an appeal in cassation under Article 80 of the Participation Act. The judgment of the Central Appeals Board was suspended. I do not want to repeat the whole explanatory statement here, but we are at the heart of today's judgment of the Supreme Court, which in December 2017 ruled that the distinction between second-degree relatives and non-family relatives is indeed discriminatory. The Supreme Court also held that the Central Board of Appeal wrongly held that the exception applicable to second-degree relatives with a need for care should also be applied in the situation of other unmarried cohabitants who have a common household, because this is contrary to the principles of the Participation Act. That is why this phrase is relevant to my group in the ruling of the Supreme Court. I quote: 'There is no further reason why, in the case of second-degree relatives, who have a common household because of the need for care of one of them, there would be a more pressing social problem than in the case of non-kins in the same situation'. Apart from the legal history, the Supreme Court has not been able to find any justification for the difference in treatment at issue here. My group supports the conclusion reached by the Supreme Court. I quote again: 'On the other hand, the choice of the Central Board of Appeal is clearly contrary to the principle set out in 2.3.6 of the Participation Act in order to assess whether a person is entitled to a benefit in situations of joint management to take into account the resources of the partner, regardless of the degree of kinship'. However, in its ruling, the Supreme Court states that the choice between the abovementioned alternatives in the given constitutional relations is in principle reserved to the legislator. And that's why we're here today. On the one hand, my group naturally wishes to respect the ruling of the Supreme Court. The members of the D66 Group also recognise that the nature of the assistance scheme is a safety net and that the system of the Participation Act must fit in with this. My group reads the ruling of the Supreme Court in such a way that the current situation is indeed contrary to the prohibition of discrimination and that the solution lies in removing the exception. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State also agrees that the approach adopted in the proposal fits into the system of the Participation Act. However, my group shares the concern of the Council of State that this proposal may have the effect that people will refrain from carrying out a joint household if this can have adverse effects on welfare benefits. Because, for example, the care to be provided is still needed, it may be possible to opt for an early inclusion in a Wlz institution. My group believes that this could be counterproductive. We would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. The D66 Group assumes that this amendment affects a small group of people in a vulnerable situation. And that raises the question of "sustainable," which we have heard before this afternoon, how fair it really is to reduce two sisters, who are not yet entitled to an AOW pension, but perhaps at an age which has been living together in one house for years, to their benefit if they are in or out of the Participation Act and one of them has a long-term need for care. My group therefore needs to reassure the Secretary of State that this change of law leaves room for tailor-made work by municipalities if there are distressing situations. Mr. Chairman. The answer given by the Secretary of State shows that it is difficult to identify how many people are affected by this change of law. The Secretary of State says in the reply: "The government further points out that, if it is already in practice, the number of cases potentially affected by this bill is very small'. Can the Secretary of State indicate when it will be able to map these numbers? I realize, while I am proposing this, that this is technical language again. At D66, of course, we are well aware that it is about people in very vulnerable positions. Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, my group also needs to clarify the difference between common housekeeping and cost sharing. For the change we are discussing today concerns'second-degree relatives and others who have a common household where there is a need for care'. When we talk about the concept of 'joint household', this must be distinguished from the cost sharing, so we understand. How should my group read this difference in the context of the present legislative amendment? Is our estimate that if two or more persons share a home and there is only the possibility of sharing the costs, this change in law does not affect second degree relatives if they live together with a caregiver and are already covered by the cost sharing? Can the Secretary of State imagine that it is rather difficult for people in this situation to understand exactly what this is about? Would she like to explain this one more time? Can it therefore indicate the size of the group involved in the cost sharing situation? Mr. Chairman. We received on May 12th last. a letter from the organisation Each (in) and the National Poverty Coalition with great concern about the effects of this legislative change. I quote a key sentence of their argument: 'The argument for eliminating discrimination by deleting the exception, rather than applying it more broadly, essentially reflects the problem: people with disabilities do not fit within the framework of the Participation Act'. My group would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State to this letter and the quoted statement. Can the Secretary of State also take into account in her response what was the consideration for her not to extend the existing situation to other joint households where there is a need for care? Is there a financial or principled consideration behind this? When it comes to transitional rights, transitional arrangements and customization, my group welcomes the amendments adopted and the motion by Raemakers and Peters, and Peters and Jasper Van Dijk in the House of Representatives. This extends the transitional regime from 12 months to 24 months and allows tailor-made work. This gives the government more time to map the numbers and the affected households time to prepare themselves financially. Can the Secretary of State indicate how the implementation of these amendments will be organised? Who will be responsible for this? How's the Secretary of State gonna monitor this? Will it come forward with an evaluation of this transitional arrangement? As I said earlier, it is important for the D66 Group that customisation is possible if there are distressing financial situations arising from the change we are discussing today. We know that the B and W colleges can rely on Article 18 (1) of the Participation Act. This article contains a hardness clause allowing municipalities to tailor assistance to the potential, resources and circumstances of the interested party in distressing situations. It is important to us that both the B and W colleges and those involved know the existence of this article. My group asks how the Secretary of State is going to provide clear, clear and intuitive services or in the words of Mr Ester "empathic" communication to stakeholders on the possibility of recourse to Article 18 (1) of the Participation Act. In the aforementioned letter from Each (in) and the National Poverty Coalition, the signatories refer to this extended transition period and the deployment of municipalities as "laps resources." How does the Secretary of State view this appreciation? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the D66 Group is concerned about how this amendment relates to the UN Convention on Persons with Disabilities. The Poverty Coalition also pointed this out in its letter of 12 May. My group would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State to the assessment of Each and the National Poverty Coalition that this bill may lead to a deterioration of the income position and livelihood of people with a need for care resulting from a restriction. In the recent report The position of people with a disability from a young age, the College of Human Rights notes that it prevents a person's network from being less large than those who would like. If people really want to participate fully in society, it can help if they live in the same house with a blood relative in the second degree. The deletion of the exception could reduce the possibility of more self-direction. Does the Secretary of State share the concerns of the College of Human Rights? Finally, Mr President. The D66 Group, of course, wishes to respect statements by the Supreme Court, the highest judge in this country. From the principle of the rule of law, it is clear to my group why the government is bringing forward this legislative amendment. At the same time, my group is concerned about the consequences of this change of law for people in a vulnerable position. My group is therefore interested in the answers of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u42	Thank you, Mrs Stienen. I call Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u43	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Pouw-Verweij on her substantively strong speech. I assume that Mr Van Pareren is happy to pass that on to his colleague. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing an exceptional legislative proposal, which focuses on the elimination of the discriminatory distinction between second-degree blood relatives and other non-blood relatives who have a common household where there is a need for care. The Noorman-Den Uyl/Bakker amendment adopted at the time must be reversed. A legal exception was made for second-degree relatives and non-kins who have a common household, with the care needs of the primary care provider, in order to be able to provide the care that would otherwise have to be provided by a professional care provider, without taking into account the resources of the partner. This deviating determination of relatives in the second degree would discriminate against non-family members, as determined by the Central Board of Appeal and the Supreme Court. The government believes that the most real option is to remove this exception for relatives instead of maintaining it and to introduce it for the non-family. It bases this view on the fact that this would not be in line with the principle of the Participation Act in order to assess whether a person is eligible for a benefit. Mr. Chairman. The government completely ignores the fact that it is a completely real legal option to align the discriminatory aspect between relatives and non-family members, so that cohabitants, with a common household, where the need for care is generally considered as a part of it, can be treated equally. This is a political choice and also an ethical choice by the government and not a legal one. It's not about anyone or anyone. I thought Mr van Gurp van GroenLinks said it strikingly: it is an ethical issue and also a question of charity, love for the neighbor. The objective of the participatory society or society was to achieve austerity. Because of increasing costs, this government wants to limit the welfare state by transferring more and more tasks to the individual citizen. How strange it is that, from the point of view of participation, caring for a family member or close friend will be financially punished. Care for your neighbor or loved one should be facilitated from within society rather than being slowed down. Does the Secretary of State agree with 50PLUS that it should not be a financial disadvantage for someone who takes care of another person? The bill leads to a worse situation, because removing the exception makes it harder to take care of your family or neighbor. The wider transitional period and the efforts that municipalities can make to prevent distressing situations are lap agents, according to the letter of Eachen(in) of 12 May, together with the National Clients Council, Mind, Federation Opvanging en MantelzorgNL. I quote Mrs Stienen from the letter of 12 May: 'Despite the amendments and motions adopted, the possibility of caring for your own family, second-degree relatives or close relatives is severely restricted. The argument for eliminating discrimination by deleting the exception rather than applying it more broadly essentially reflects the problem: people with disabilities do not fit within the framework of the Participation Act." It can't be any clearer. In the letter of 12 May, reference is made to the requirement to review this bill in accordance with the UN Convention on the Handicap of the College of Human Rights, in the light of the rulings of the Central Board of Appeal and the Supreme Court cited above. International conventions are above national law. Has the Minister tested this bill against this UN treaty? Is it true that the abolition of the currently discriminatoryly qualified distinction between relatives and non-family members creates a new discriminatory distinction? After all, the distinction between the group of people on welfare benefits fulfilling the need for care and the group without welfare benefits, the first group is facing a financial decline. People without assistance can move in together to take care of each other. People with welfare benefits are financially punished if they start taking care of someone and are living together for that reason. How can this be consistent with the health care provider's security of existence? And does this deterioration in the income position of both the caregiver and the caregiver not lead to an indirect conflict with the principles of the UN Convention? I'd like a response from the Minister. 50PLUS considers that the argument not to extend the target group to non-family members because this would not fit in with the character of the Participation Act is a complete fallacy. The real reason is a political ideology, which affects certain categories of society and which makes it impossible for purely financial reasons to live together with a common household, where one takes care of the other. The Council of State also pointed out the concern over the abandonment of care. My group follows the Central Board of Appeal and thus expands the group. Expanding the group involves a care needs of people who want to take care of each other at home. They provide a need for care. Stop giving up care. Stop this punishment for caring. Stop, I'll say it anyway. This fine on care. We are talking about a participatory society. This proposal goes against participation and coexistence. Participation is also taking care of each other at home. Living together is also living together and caring together. Let this care bonus, if I may use that word here, stand up by expanding this group. In fact, we are having a real debate on the participatory society for the first time here today. What's caring for each other? Care should be central, in this case also between grandparents and grandchildren. I can talk about it. For 50PLUS, this is a matter of civilisation. The abandonment of care, as the Council of State recalled, it has also been mentioned earlier this afternoon.... is very worrying. Finally, it's up to me to get it off my chest. I've been working in the House of Representatives lately. It is still bizarre that there is a separation of spirits in the House of Representatives, and Mr Van Gurp also mentioned it as going right through political relations. On the one hand, an engine block, a term I invented there, which other groups have always stuck on, in front of the entire opposition, from left to right. Well, that's telling, isn't it? Politically or legally, it's also a matter of ethics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u44	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Mr Janssen, on behalf of the SP, has the floor to ask Members to comply with the agreed deadline for entering the time limits prior to the debate, as we had agreed, because otherwise I find it difficult to meet the wishes of the Chamber not to change the agenda after Friday. So I would like to make a friendly request to register the time limits before 12.00 noon on Wednesday, wherever possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u45	Thank you, Mr President. I will pass on your words to Mr Kox. He's been able to learn about it himself. After I registered him, the request came as to whether I wanted to take over the debate from him. I am happy to do so, but not until I have congratulated Mrs Pouw-Verweij for a beautiful maiden speech with a story from the heart that is also taken from my heart. Mr. Chairman. In 2002, the Noorman-Den Uyl/Bakker amendment led to the exclusion of second-degree relatives if there is a need for care. This created a distinction with others who share a common household and in which one of the partners has a need for care. That was almost 20 years ago. A case in March 2016 eventually led to the judgment of the Central Board of Appeal that this distinction is discriminatory, because it is contrary to Article 26 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Article 3 (2), introductory wording and point (a) of the Participation Act should not apply. The Supreme Court also confirmed this discriminatory character in 2017. However, the Supreme Court has also indicated that where the Central Board of Appeal used an explanation that the operation of the system should be extended, it could also be restricted in effect. I have heard a number of colleagues say that the Supreme Court supported the choice of the cabinet or similar words. The Supreme Court didn't say that. The Supreme Court has merely indicated that the choice of the Central Board of Appeal could not be supported and that there was another possibility. The Supreme Court has also said that the judge must be cautious. So there has been no support for the choice that is now before us. It was a choice between broadening and limiting. In the constitutional context, that is reserved for the legislator, according to the Supreme Court. I noticed that this text was printed in bold again in a reply, probably so that we would understand it for sure, but I can reassure the Secretary of State that we can follow it without that bold text. Mr. Chairman. The SP also believes that statements by the Supreme Court should be followed up, but that is something other than that we are signing up to the solution that the Cabinet is coming up with. We don't sign at the cross. In principle, therefore, it is reserved for the legislator. That is why we are here today to discuss with each other the choice made by the cabinet, the limitation of the functioning which excludes second-degree relatives. The cabinet has therefore chosen to limit and not broaden. That is a choice, but it is not the choice of the SP and certainly not at this time of corona crisis, in which such a huge appeal is made to the care that people provide to their neighbors, lovingly and with great attention. As far as the SP is concerned, this law is a wrong signal at the moment. Does the Secretary of State share this view? What does she think of the timing? In addition to caring for your neighbors at this time, these people will receive the announcement from the Cabinet that you may lose your welfare allowance in 24 months if you are now entitled to it as a second-degree blood relative. Then all those beautiful words about the heroes in the care, to which I expressly also charge all those who care for their neighbors, are empty and meaningless. Not flowers, but punishment for caring for your neighbors. Mr. Chairman. It almost seems to be about welfare benefits, but the core of this discussion for the SP is that it is about a need for care that exists among people. In the written reply, the Secretary of State repeatedly refers to the scope and purpose of the Participation Act, but if the scope of the Participation Act is contrary to loving care for a neighbor, then you have to do something about that law and not punish the caretakers. They have other things on their mind, especially now. We are now living three and a half years after the ruling of the Central Board of Appeal and two and a half years after the ruling of the Supreme Court. In the meantime, how has this ruling been handled, I ask the Secretary of State. Can she outline what has happened in practice over the past two years? How was that ruling of the Supreme Court translated into practice? Has there been discrimination or has there been wider action? Mr. Chairman. The SP finds it incomprehensible that the cabinet has not reached a more humane and social choice by extending its operation rather than limiting it. The current crisis shows once again that care by a close friend in his own environment is invaluable. This also applies to more legislative proposals that were invented and tabled before the new reality hit us. Does the Secretary of State at the present time have any doubt at all whether limiting the possibilities of care for the family is the right path? I'd like a reflection from the Secretary of State. As far as the SP is concerned, the Secretary of State, also heard the contributions of a number of colleagues, should withdraw this bill and seek a different interpretation for the ruling of the Supreme Court. That would be our choice, and that would also be our consideration that we would like to give to the Secretary of State. I very much like the reference made by Mr Schalk. We live in times that lead us off flattened paths. It hurts sometimes, and that can be very annoying. But new realities also require new measures and a new interpretation of existing laws and rules. There is also broad understanding of when this happens. There is now not only a great deal of demand from the head of politicians, but above all from their hearts. Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the answer from the Secretary of State, but I hope she herself will come to the understanding today that this law is not what society needs at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u46	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I trust you'll get out with your colleague Kox. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I shall then suspend this debate until after the debate on the implementation of Mr Kox's motion. on achieving a reduction target in order to structurally reduce child poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-9.u47	That's until after dinner break.
