ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u1	We shall now proceed with the discussion of the infrastructure and water resources budget. We're gonna see where the rulers are, because they're gonna have to listen to your story, Mr. Schonis. I see several MPs. Mrs. Postma's coming in. Mr Laçin is waving at me. Mr Remco Dijkstra is also coming in. Mr Wassenberg is already there. Mr Gijs van Dijk, too. I'm just describing what's going on in this room. It's beautiful autumn weather, but everyone's inside. I'm just saying this before I get angry e-mails asking where the MPs are. I see Mr Amhaouch and Mr Graus walking together, two Limburgers. Mrs. Van Eijs is here. Look, it's the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u2	I now give the floor to Mr Schonis on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. Mr. Graus said it right at the beginning this morning: spokesmen with the Infrastructure and Water State portfolio have the best portfolio of all. I can only confirm that, of course, because we are talking about everything that drives, drives, walks or bikes. And then I should normally add that I have to leave the flying to Mr Paternotte, but because Mr Paternotte now has other obligations, I can also talk about aviation today. So today I really have the wallet "to land, to sea and to air." Now Mr Paternotte knows what he's giving away, because because of the corona outbreak there's not much to tell about aviation. In fact, a lot of people have been duped because their flight vacation had to be cancelled this year. That is why I can announce here that Mr Paternotte and I will table an initiative law. The purpose of that law is to better protect consumer rights from bankruptcy in the aviation sector. That is what we will be discussing at a later date. Mr. Chairman. I therefore confine myself today to the things that track, drive and sail. Then Mr Jessica van Eijs will take over from me and deal with some environmental issues. I'll start with car mobility. When I was standing here last year, we had to put the Minister quite behind us about placing signs that indicate charging points along the highway. I've heard and seen that the first sign has been placed. Of course, I'm very happy about that. It is placed in my own Zeeland. Of course, I love that. Of course, that has nothing to do with it, I think the Minister would like to do me a personal favor. Or yes, and I'd like to thank her for that, of course. Zeeland likes to run first, but in what time, Minister, are we going to place these signs all over the Netherlands? Do you have a timeline for that? Mr. Chairman. Sometimes the Minister can get things done very quickly. That turned out yesterday, because suddenly there was the route decision for the widening of the A27 at Amelisweerd. It's been a while this morning. We didn't drive so fast on the highway. Farmers were protesting yesterday in The Hague. The building's stopped. And what does the Minister do? At the first opportunity she has, she signs a route decision for one new motorway. Look, last year this was announced, but in a letter about a very coherent package, which is now in the form of the nitrogen law in the House of Representatives. Does the Minister agree with D66 that she has at least been a little premature by adopting that route decision already? Is this really a matter of careful decision-making? What are the consequences of taking this decision on the available nitrogen space for, for example, the huge housing inventory in the Utrecht region? D66 fears that this minister, as a true Mrs Pac-Man, will swallow up all the nitrogen space in Utrecht and that the region will unfortunately close for the coming years. Mr. Chairman. Speaking of car mobility, it will not have escaped anyone's notice that corona also has a major impact on mobility. Mr Dijkstra mentioned it this morning. The number of traffic jams has fallen enormously, not least because the whole of the Netherlands has to work at home. If about 10% of the motorists will also be able to leave the car behind when the corona crisis is over, then we can keep the Netherlands virtually file-free. That's why D66 pleads for a right to work at home. But of course we need more to encourage people to think differently about their travel behaviour. In this country we find it the most normal thing in the world that we pay for every call minute, every liter of water and every cube of natural gas that, or for every kilowatt-hour of electricity we use at home. But when it comes to own car, the principle of "honestly paying for use" suddenly doesn't seem to apply anymore. D66 wants a fairer system for paying for our car mobility. You pay for the car that drives, not the car that stands still. By paying per kilometre driven instead of paying by means of a general tax in the form of the motor vehicle tax, the Marb, which also changes by province, we make the system fairer and keep the costs easy for everyone. Fairer also means that we will reward clean and sustainable choices. The billing by the Ministry of Finance shows that a number of variants of road charging reduce CO and nitrogen emissions by as much as a quarter. A quarter less nitrogen emissions! That's the only way we're gonna be able to deal with this housing issue. It is not for nothing that we have agreed in the Climate Agreement to introduce a form of payment to use. Can the Minister promise that she will keep the agreement under the Climate Agreement and that we will be on course to introduce road pricing in 2025? Is it currently taking all the necessary preparations to enable the next cabinet to take a decision on this matter in formation? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to an event at the beginning of last year, the consequences of which we are still experiencing today. Then, of course, I'm referring to the disaster with the MSC Zoe. The disaster with the MSC Zoe showed how difficult it is to control a container ship of that magnitude. 800 tons of cargo is still untraceable. The Safety Research Council, the OVV, reported to us that it is too risky for container ships to navigate the southern sailing route in a northwesterly storm. This applies to both large and small container ships. Like chairman Dijsselbloem of the OVV, D66 concludes that the status of the Wadden area as a special nature reserve means that we have a duty of care. We must do everything in our power to prevent this disaster from happening again. On behalf of D66, I will hand over an action plan to the Minister, and I have already made it clear here that there are seven points, concrete actions, in order to avoid a future disaster of this magnitude. And then, in the way of Game of Thrones: "Winter is coming," and with that also the stormy season. So we don't have time to waste. Finally, I come to the question of the transport of goods, the transport of goods, by rail. That has already been mentioned, namely the modal shift, i.e. the shift of transport by road to transport by rail. The transport of goods by rail brings with it less CO emissions, it is certainly as safe as road transport, and you wonder: why is rail freight no longer being chosen? Is it the lack of connection with Germany via the Betuwe route, is it the tariffs that rail freight carriers have to pay, or what is the difference? And while we are talking about this subject, I have often had to advise on the transport of dangerous substances on the railways in my work before I became a Member of Parliament. The rail system was the most difficult part of the introduction of the Basic Transport Network. The municipalities along designated routes are faced with building restrictions. Railway manager ProRail appears to be able to steer only limitedly on the routes which the trains are allowed to operate with dangerous substances. Moreover, the control of whether the risk ceilings are met and the justification for them are always ex post. The same applies to noise production ceilings for railway noise, and we are waiting until today for a review framework for vibration nuisance. Mr Ziengs and Mr Amhaouch referred to this earlier. For the transport of passengers by rail, the State Secretary presented the Future Picture OV 2040 last year. Such a vision is currently lacking for rail freight transport. Is the Secretary of State prepared to draw up an image of the future of rail freight transport, a vision of the future in which the bottlenecks I have just identified are taken into account, and which outlines a route for how the government will improve in the coming years? I'd like to hear it from the Secretary of State. Yes, Mr President, that brings me to the end of my speech, because, as you have noticed, I am suddenly dealing with environmental issues. And that is what my colleague Jessica van Eijs is about, so I would ask you to give her the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u4	Yes, but Mr Gijs van Dijk has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u5	Yes, I have a small question, because Mr Schonis himself is from Zeeland, about the injustice of Zeeland-Flanders. I am sure Mr Schonis himself knows that very well; he probably knows the stories even better than I do. Mr Laçin of the SP and I have made an amendment to make the tunnel toll free for the coming year, also in the light of next year, because then there will be elections again and then we will solve it for the longer term. Can we expect Mr Schonis on our side?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u6	Look, Mr. Van Dijk, I think I know this best from most people here in the room, because I also find out in person what it means for a region: every time you want "to the other side," as we say there, pay €5, so a tenner back and forth. And yet, when we talk about this, I would like a long-term sustainable and lasting solution. I find it very sympathetic, whether it seems very sympathetic to you, and you are also linking it to the elections that you are now saying: I am going to abolish that toll for a year, and I am asking 30 million for that. But now I have a question for you, Mr. Van Dijk. Then what do you say to me and to all the other Zeeuws next year? Because, yes, you can say that there is something on the formation table, but 200 to 300 million is left in the middle exactly how much it costs, but about that order of magnitude we have the money in a fund so that the N.V. Westerschelde tunnel is debt-free because that's what we're talking about, of course, doing nothing for the rest. And, of course, there are a lot of regions in this country that want investment, such as for the Lely line, which Mr Amhaouch and indeed Mr Laçin talked about this morning. We're gonna have to pay for that, too. I guess we'd better go for a ride, which I've just made a plea for. Because if the whole of the Netherlands has bill rides, we can talk about abolishing the toll rates, so you don't have to pay double, instead of me saying, quite gratuitously, a year's free toll in Zeeland, and then we'll see again. That's not a story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u7	It's not a story. And there's gonna be another investigation from D66. Well, you can put a staple through that and then you have such a pile of investigations about the injustice that's taking place there, so I guess we don't have to do that anymore. It's a matter of political choices. The Labour Party chooses the region and has included in the election programme, probably like the SP and a number of other parties, to make that tunnel toll free. That's a conscious choice. That's what we're paying for. It's not gratuitous. It is a first step and also a gesture towards Zeeuws-Vlaanderen, to ensure that we solve it for the longer term. So, instead of falling into political games, we would very much like to do so with this amendment, too, to the coalition: think about it carefully. We have the debate again tomorrow. Then we'll hear it from the cabinet, too. Let's see what we can do tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u8	That was a call, but you can respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u9	I didn't hear a question, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u10	Okay. Your last question, Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u11	Yeah, I'm sorry. We're debating so much fun, but we're also limited. Mr. Schonis at the end mentioned the Lelyline between nose and lip. We moved in there together. We've written motions about it. In D66's election program, it's a little cryptically defined: we're going to investigate it, see possibilities. But can Mr Schonis make the position of D66 clear, even for the people who are watching? How do you stand on it? Is it, uh, we're gonna do it? Of course you can create a number of conditions. Is that the direction? Or is it: we're going to investigate and there's still a lot of question marks, so the odds are fifty-fifty? I therefore ask for a piece of conviction from Mr Schonis about the Lely line to the north.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u12	Our electoral programme is also a concept. There's another amendment to that, I know. I have also wholeheartedly supported that. It says even more clearly that D66 chooses the Lelyline. The Lelyline is a good idea. I haven't spent my entire life with you for nothing. It connects territories with each other. It strengthens the economy of the whole of the Netherlands, not just the north. As far as D66 is concerned, we are definitely for the Lelyline.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u13	There you go! Thank you, Mr. Schonis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u14	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u15	I now give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have the honour to speak on behalf of D66 about the environment and the circular economy. The corona crisis has shown that the circular economy is still very vulnerable in its start-up phase. We saw it in the textile collection and in plastic recycling. Let us take advantage of this crisis to bring about the change in the system that is needed. Now that we're home a lot, we've mucked out our wardrobe massively, but the collectors don't know what to do with this huge pile of textiles. Our textile collection system is based on resale of clothing to, for example, Africa, but that is getting stuck. They don't want the textile anymore. And if you'll excuse them, such a woolly jersey in a warm climate. But also and perhaps more fundamental is that we have gone to the fast fashion mass. This means a lot more clothing and textiles, and incredibly often of poor quality. Clothes are falling apart before you can resell them. We need to get to slow fashion. This is a structurally sustainable solution. I therefore ask the Secretary of State: how can we support this transition to slow fashion? But in the meantime, for 20 years there is still textile in our wardrobes or wardrobes. The Netherlands does not have its own recycling infrastructure. That is why D66 welcomes the European commitment to a comprehensive producer responsibility for textiles. But D66 wants this to be a smartly expanded producer responsibility, of which we use the proceeds to set up that recycling infrastructure. Because clothing is still being burned. That's a huge shame. For example, counterfeit products impounded are burned, including stacks of counterfeit branded clothing. As with plastics, we cannot wait until the financial system is circular and the market itself regulates it. We must also enforce the demand for recycling. That is also the commitment of the Netherlands in Europe. The Secretary of State recently made a nice denim deal, including agreements on the application of recycling. But what about the pile of textiles we have now? The Secretary of State wanted to establish the link between the textile collection and the construction industry. I ask her: what did this get? How do we prevent these raw materials from being burned? And isn't burning too easy now, for example, with those confiscated counterfeit clothing? How, I ask the Secretary of State, can we achieve a sustainable recycling infrastructure? Can we use the extensive producer responsibility for this? Plastic recyclers also used to ring the bell during this crisis, because virgin plastics are far too cheap because of the low oil price. They cannot lose the carefully collected and processed recycling. That is why D66 is also pleased with the Van Raan motion adopted to make new plastics less cheap. But when there's a tax on new plastic, D66 says again: make it smart. Do not use the funds collected for cashing, because then the importance of new plastics will remain intact, but use them to make plastic truly circular and to force innovation to be so soon that non-recyclable plastic can be banned. We have a Plastic Pact now, and that's nice. The front runners are showing themselves. Those who remain behind are those who do not participate or only participate in name. 60% of the participants haven't provided any data, but we don't know who. Black lists are always difficult I know, but is it not possible to publish a green list? What other options for stimulating the recycled plastic market, in addition to a levy, are being examined by the State Secretary? In an earlier letter she indicated that she would organise a consultation with the Acceleration House, the participants in the Plastic Pact and a number of others in connection with corona. I wonder what came out of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u17	Mr. Graus. A short question, please, because we really have to continue the debate on corona at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u18	Certainly, Madam President, I have every sympathy and respect for that. The D66 Secretary of State is responsible for that import charge. I now hear the story of my colleague from D66. Iceland, for example, shipped waste to us to bring it here to renewable energy. It was a win-win situation, but because of that import charge Iceland, for example, can no longer ship waste to the Netherlands. They have already had to deposit 10 million kilos there, in their own country. I read an article about that; I have it with me. Iceland is only a small country, with a few hundred thousand inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u19	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u20	My question is: how is that consistent with the story that keeps D66 here? Of course, we must also help people who cannot do it all by themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u21	A brief answer, too, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u22	The import charge is not a prohibition. It is still possible to bring waste to the Netherlands and have it processed in the low quality way that incineration is. Only, it costs more money. It is no longer free to dump and burn your waste here and to spread the remains over the Dutch people via the chimney. Because that's what happens. If the waste from, for example, Iceland or England is burned here, we will have a deteriorating air quality here. It's still possible, only you have to pay for it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u23	The last question, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u24	It will no longer be feasible and affordable. My colleague knows that, too. You can say that it is not a ban, but if it is no longer feasible and affordable, it will not happen again. In addition, it was converted into energy here. That should appeal to D66. So I don't think it's compatible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u25	Incineration of waste is one of the most low-grade ways of treating waste, or raw materials. Much better is to recycle it and reuse it in a high-quality way. That's why all countries have to make sure that recycling capacity is there, instead of thinking: oh, it's cheap in that country, so that's where we send it and that's where they burn it. I do not think that we should make it cheap, feasible, easy and affordable to burn stuff from other countries here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u26	Mrs Van Eijs is committed to recycling. That's very good. Recycling must be cheaper and there must be more deposit money. But does Mrs Van Eijs agree with me that I have not yet heard in her speech that prevention is much better than cure? Does she agree that we should focus on fewer plastic and less packaging? When you get them, you have to recycle them, but I didn't hear that "less."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u27	You're absolutely right about that. That is one of the things that is higher on the R ladder, as we call it: to avoid making certain products at all. That's very important. Unfortunately, I had a maximum speaking time, but I hope to ask and discuss this more with the Secretary of State during the general consultation Circular economy. That's where it's gonna come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u28	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u29	I was talking about plastic and textiles. These are good examples that indicate that the road to the circular economy is still long. The end point seems to be covered in nebula from time to time. Therefore, the formulation of measurable targets is essential. We are therefore eagerly looking forward to the publication of these targets in 2021. In the meantime, it is important to continue to take steps. An important player is the Acceleration House. Since February 2019, the Acceleration House has helped 150 companies with complex questions, created 500 matches and built a community of 5,000 members. Very nice, but I understand that companies are also facing obstacles and shortcomings in regulation and that they are not being picked up within the Acceleration House. Can't the Acceleration House play a role in that, too? Maybe not as a fixer, but as a collection point and a relay to the Ministry. How does the Secretary of State view this? Of course, we welcome the resources allocated to the circular economy, but we do have a question about these resources. Is the EUR 40 million for the coming years for the continuation of the current programme, or are there any changes in course of action expected? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to talk about the environment. We still see far too often that the environment is falling apart. This is all the more urgent in times when economic prosperity is not going well. The discussions we had about deep puddles, about pfas and about the graphite rains at Tata clearly indicate that a system change is needed here too. As a result of yesterday's news about the residents of Tata Steel, I would like to ask the Secretary of State: can she promise to look very closely at all the permits together with the province? Because it really seems like people living in the neighborhood get 50% more lung cancer and that there is a connection with the steel production of Tata Steel. So it's a much-needed system change. In part, we know how. For example, the Chicken report gives clear indications of how the system around soil quality can be adapted. And we also talked earlier about discharges of dust, about very worrying substances. Both have no place in a truly circular economy. But changing our economic system and our supervision and enforcement takes a lot of time. In the meantime, we want to make a proposal which we believe will be an improvement in the short term. For example, we read that 68% of the controls are administrative or announced controls at BRZO+ companies. Mr. Chairman. That reminds me of a potemkin village. Of course, everything looks spic and span when you announce you're coming to check. Is the Minister prepared to see if many more controls can be unannounced rather than announced? It is only a step on a long road, but we would like to take it anyway, while we are working on a reform of the system. Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. Our ambitions in the area of circular economy and environment are high and we are aiming for total system change, but at the same time we see that we are already working on these ambitions against problems. With this cabinet, good steps have been taken to solve these problems. We hope that the new cabinet will have enough leverage with this budget to continue to work towards our common ambition in the coming years: the Netherlands will be completely circular in 2050. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u30	Thank you, Mrs Van Eijs. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The consequences of the corona crisis are enormous. For many people, daily life has changed fundamentally. It affects society very much and affects the economy. The question is, here at IenW what the cabinet will do with this crisis time. Is the cabinet going to sit it out and leave it at that, or are we going to use this moment to make some necessary investments that are desperately needed for the future of the mobility of the Netherlands? Does the cabinet still have the ambition to invest, for example, in the North/South line? To invest in the Lelyline? To invest in a number of international train connections? You can prepare all that now. We can now wait for a formation to take place. That may take a long time, but that's all time we can't miss. So I call on the Cabinet to work on the necessary investments in the mobility of the future, which we see in the programme and to ensure that we can start next year. I know, for example, that they are almost ready in Amsterdam to start extending the North/South line. It affects not only our mobility, but also our enormous task in housing. There will be a lot of extra building in the coming years. It's nice to live somewhere, but if you can't get there, it gets complicated. How is this to be taken together, the huge housing inventory that we have and the mobility call that goes with it? As far as the Labour Party is concerned, we are already working on this necessary investment. We have earmarked EUR 10 billion in the growth fund for infrastructure and development. That goes from the Lelyline to international connections and RandstadRail. I am very curious to know what the Minister and the Secretary of State think about that. I come to a call from Jeroen Dijsselbloem in his role as chairman of the Research Council for Security. He said in a technical briefing that we had as a chamber with him: another disaster could happen tomorrow with a container ship. I know it's felt that way in the Wadden region. We have seen the consequences of this on a daily basis and the consequences for the longer term for nature. So I would like to know what the cabinet's plan is on this point. I saw D66 with all kinds of proposals. We have them, too. I also know that the Christian Union has proposals for this. Above all, we want to know from the Minister: what is happening now and what can we expect this winter to take the necessary measures to ensure that ships sail safely in a very sensitive area? We should fight injustice in every possible way. The word injustice comes right up when you're talking about Zeeland-Flanders. The people there have to pay a toll for the tunnel they're driving. That's stronger in corona time. Then the Belgian border was closed and there was no alternative at all. Not only did it have economic consequences, it has several studies that have been shown in recent years, so we know that, but it also has social consequences for Zeeland-Flanders, in the sense that you make the choice: I'm not going to go across the street, but choose to stay here. I would also like the social consequences to be taken into account. That is why we have made a very reasonable proposal with the SP. Not to be gratuitous and not to play political games, but to take a first step for the coming year, in the light of corona and its social consequences. Our ambition, which is also stated in our programme, is simply to regulate this for the future longer term for Zeeland-Flanders and to remove the injustice that has been felt for so long. The truck drivers also feel what it's like to have to work in corona time. They suffer that if they have to stop somewhere after a long working day, they will not be able to use sanitary facilities. We have seen more reports on this. What's the Minister gonna do about this? I think they just have a point. They don't have a choice. They should be in a parking lot. It's a normal right that you should have to use the plumbing and not have to do it somewhere in the bushes. Despite the great ambition to maintain more, it is still a wild west in the parking spaces in the Netherlands. We still see a lot of truck drivers driving around for weeks, also in the Netherlands, and sleeping in their cabin. That has enormous social consequences. What is the Minister going to do about this and is he willing to look with the ILT at firm enforcement? In neighbouring countries, the Netherlands is referred to as a weak enforcer. That's why a lot of foreign drivers come here, because it's a safe house. This affects not only the drivers, but also a lot of people in residential areas. What is the government's ambition in this respect? I said it at the beginning: it's a special time. We have a corona crisis with social consequences and health consequences. But I call on the Cabinet not to sit still in the next few months, but to come up with a plan to invest in projects. This leads to better mobility in the future, and it also leads to very important jobs, which we need because a lot of jobs are currently disappearing in a number of sectors that are hard hit. But the construction needs a lot of people, so let's bet on that. I call upon the Cabinet to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u32	Thank you, Mr. Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u33	I see Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u34	Yeah, me too. Mr Van Raan has a very short question, as always.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u35	Always, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u36	I assume it's about flying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u37	It's about flying, indeed. It is heartwarming to read the PvdA election programme. Reduced aviation, nicely in line with the CO ceiling, falling in line with the 1.5 ̊C scenario. This actually means, if you calculate all of this, we have done so and probably several parties have come to the same understanding, which is very nice that this involves a shrinkage of aviation. Is the PvdA ready to say so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u38	That's what I expected. I am pleased that Mr Van Raan has taken a good look at that wonderful programme of my party, our plan for a fairer and more decent Netherlands. That's good. In this plan, we are indeed aware of the effects on the climate. We really believe that more ambition should be shown in this area and that aviation should finally be part of it. So Mr Van Raan is right: the climate agreements also apply to aviation. We also believe that the kerosene tax should also apply to aviation. This means that Mr Van Raan has probably also seen that we say that we should, for example, use a standstill when it comes to adding Lelystad Airport. We cannot make that choice now, firstly because we are in corona time, but secondly because we want to talk fundamentally first about the future that we see for aviation. Can you clean it up? Can it be more sustainable? Can you keep it down? So I guess we'll find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u39	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Mobility brings people together and is also very important for our economy. However, many forms of mobility are also at the expense of the quality of our living environment. We must take this into account, in the light of our health, climate and road safety. In order to keep the Netherlands mobile, we need to make mobility cleaner and smarter, promote sustainable and efficient mobility and prevent unnecessary mobility. Because of the need, we have seen in the past period that less and more scattered travel and homework can be done, contrary to what was often thought. If we hold on to some of this after the corona crisis, it will appear that with relatively small shifts we can reduce the peak load on our infrastructure. I would very much like to know how the Minister and the Secretary of State view that. What is their ambition to have a chance in the coming year of the crisis? I also ask the Cabinet how it would like to encourage it as an attractive travel option. The Christian Union sees infrastructure primarily as a means of getting to where you want to be, so not as an end in itself. Therefore, the Christian Union welcomes the transformation of the Infrastructure Fund into the Mobility Fund and also the adoption of our amendment to change the objective of the Fund and to shift the focus from the construction of new infrastructure to facilitating the accessibility of the whole of the Netherlands, through safe, innovative and sustainable mobility. The focus has been on accessibility and offers real opportunities to invest in sustainable and innovative solutions. I am calling today for attention to be paid to road safety around schools. The challenge is great. Between 2015 and 2018, research by RTL and the University of Groningen shows that as many as 10,000 accidents took place near schools. That's almost ten a day. The Ministry has allocated a great deal of money to address road safety, with the support of the Christian Union. The Christian Union wants us to explicitly spend some of this money on road safety around schools, because the school environment is far from safe. More than two thirds of parents with school children experience the traffic situation around school as unsafe. Often this item is on the local agenda, but municipalities have to choose what they invest and not what they invest in. Road safety around schools may not become the child of the account. So I ask the Minister to make explicit resources available for this within the Strategic Road Safety Plan. Mr. Chairman. Together with Safe Traffic Netherlands and municipalities in the country, the Christian Union has collected the network on what the government can still mean for the road safety of schools. This has resulted in a plan with six action points to improve road safety. I would like to pass that on to the Minister, the Secretary of State and colleagues. I would like to mention a few points of action. We would very much like to encourage through game technology that walking and cycling to school will become the norm. We want to talk to app builders for extra school areas and school streets to choose the safest route. My question to the Minister is: what is the status of these agreements? And we want awareness campaigns about the role of smartphones and about group pressure, especially for young people. I would like a response from the Minister to these proposals in the plan. And is she willing to start a pilot on game technology? Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to draw attention to a toll-free Westerschelde tunnel. Colleagues also talked about it. We know that the burdens are high and rest heavily on the shoulders of the Zeeuws. Several proposals have already been made by colleagues. Research is okay, but a lot is already known. We in the Christian Union would therefore like to go a step further. We would like to see an investigation into how the abolition of tolls can be made financially possible. We also want to include the possibilities of introducing mileage pricing. I would like a response from the Minister on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u41	Mr Gijs van Dijk has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u42	Yeah, what would that be? Maybe we can do business today or tomorrow. We have an amendment that seems reasonable to us not to fall into our own and coalition opposition. I am very curious to know what the Christian Union thinks about this and whether we can really come up with something about it. We are also prepared to amend the amendment. It can be done in all kinds of ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u43	Of course, I would have expected this question from Mr Van Dijk. I very much agree with the reactions of my colleagues. You can't do something for one year. That is why today the Christian Union is making a proposal aimed at achieving a sustainable solution in the long term, identifying how we can make the abolition of tolls financially possible and looking at how mileage pricing could play a role in this. We do see a solution here. I see a financial challenge, because when we look at the budget, we see that there are huge deficits and very large deficits in the management and maintenance of all our works of art. Where should we spend the money or not? That is, of course, a political choice, but I think we should look at a constructive solution in order to finance it. Mileage pricing could perhaps play a role in this. Hence our proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u44	Last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u45	I'm glad to hear that. In my view, we should look at how we are going to finance this for the longer term and what mileage pricing fits in with it. We have deliberately opted for funding from the corona resources, which come from the general funds, because we believe that Zeeland-Flanders has been hit pretty hard by corona and the social consequences due to the closure of the Belgian borders, are also considerable. Hence the coverage of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u46	I understand. Maybe just a brief reaction. The argument for linking these regions and ensuring that they are easily accessible is taken from the heart by the Christian Union. I think we're here for the same purpose. The question is what is the best solution. Let us discuss this with the Minister tomorrow, I would like to say. I'm very curious about the reaction. Mr. Chairman. I'll continue with public transport. This spring, we presented a ten-point plan to make public transport accessible. Last week, the Secretary of State said to embrace those plans and to make arrangements with drivers in the country to record them. I would very much like us to be able to deal with this legislation as soon as possible, so that it is quickly clear what passengers are entitled to. I will conclude with two specific questions to the Secretary of State in the field of cross-border rail transport. We should not miss the boat as the Netherlands when it comes to Brussels money. That must not be left on the shelf, because we need that very much. I ask the Secretary of State what her commitment is to the TEN-T funds, the Green Deal and also the European Recovery Fund. The second question I have is: is the Secretary of State prepared to organise a rail summit with Belgium and Germany to finally solve these bottlenecks for cross-border rail transport? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u47	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. Then we'll continue with Mrs. Dik-Faber and then I'll come to you, Mr. Wassenberg. Yeah, I see everything. I call Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u48	Mr. Chairman. I want to start going back to 2015. The Secretary of State and I were both there when the climate agreement was concluded in Paris. That was a memorable moment. Meanwhile, here in the Netherlands we have a real Climate Law and a Climate Agreement and there is a European Green Deal. There are also Sustainable Development Goals, of which I have adopted two: sustainable production and consumption and clean seas and oceans. Mr. Chairman. I notice that caring for our environment, God's creation, as we say, our common home, is becoming more and more people's heart. People give that in practice hands and feet, whether they're at home, on the road or at work, everything they buy and what they do. The Christian Union wants the government to create the framework conditions by which people can shape their lives within the limits of the earth and pass the earth on cleaner to subsequent generations. From this commitment I have a number of questions for the cabinet. First of all zero emission. Zero-emission transport becomes the new normal. Now only one charging point is required for new utility construction, and the construction of empty pipes for only one in five parking spaces. In a few years' time, the ground will have to be broken open in all these places to install additional charging points and pipes, even though we already know they are coming. These interventions come on top of all the work on existing parking spaces where there is no loading infrastructure yet. Is the Secretary of State prepared to consult with her colleague to strengthen the requirements for loading infrastructure for new utility construction in the Building Decision? Then there's the electric partial transport. The sub-car, especially the electric car, helps to reduce street viewing, closing land exploitation, less resource use and less CO emissions. The electric car, however, faces many obstacles. Co-operatives cannot use the discount on electric driving because they are not private individuals. Also, insurers have not yet been set up on new insurance models in which mobility behaviour is ensured, not the car. The goal of 700,000 share car users from the Green Deal has been achieved in the meantime. Of course, that's very nice news. For the Christian Union, however, this is not a reason for a pass on the spot, but rather a reason to move forward. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether she sees this as well and how she intends to encourage the use of the electric car. By the way, how are we doing with the marking of clean fuel charging points? The logo is there, but what's taking so long? That's a question for the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a subject that I have talked about countless times and for which the Secretary of State also has a warm heart; I know that from her. That's textile recycling. The pay model of the clothing industry cannot be sustained. My colleague Mrs Van Eijs has already said a few things about this. More and more clothing is being produced at ever lower prices. Its costs are passed on to the worker and the environment. Since 2000 we buy more than twice as much clothing, but our clothes only last half as long before we throw it away. And then the quality is so sadingly bad that there can be no recycling. We are dealing with fast fashion: clothing has become a disposable item. Who's gonna turn the trend? The textile industry has a lot of fine words, but little action. That's hard; I understand that too. After all, textile chains, retailers and manufacturers all look at each other. That is why the government is needed to draw up rules of the game. The Christian Union wants the extensive producer responsibility to be real, with collection targets, rising standards for percentages of recycling per type of dust and differentiated transition contributions. As far as we are concerned, the Secretary of State is already working on regulations, so that they can be introduced quickly if the textile industry does not deliver. As far as we are concerned, a logical decision is the first quarter of 2021, one year after the circular textile policy programme. I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. Just as for textiles, other raw materials also apply that virgin materials are actually too cheap. It is the main reason why sorting and recycling such as plastics and beverage cartons is so difficult to get off the ground. We also know this Secretary of State from the raw materials roundabout. What opportunities does it see to turn the Netherlands into Europe's raw material roundabout, or at least that the Netherlands is an important part of that raw material roundabout in Europe? After all, we are now exporting our plastics and drinks cartons, first to China and then to Turkey, and we all know what happened there. The Christian Union would like us to have recycling capacity in our own country as well. Then fix it. The circular economy is not only about reduction, re-use and recycling, but also about repair. Last year I tabled an amendment on this subject with Mrs Van Eijs, which makes one tonne available annually for repair work. Now the Repair Café can only make use of this amount for two years, under pressure from the continuity of the activities and the only additional employee has since been dismissed. Does the Secretary of State see opportunities for more perspective, in line with the amendment? Is the 40 million for the circular economy especially for steps higher on the R ladder, so first repair and reuse, and then recycling? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. I can agree with Mrs Postma's words about the seaman's houses. We were at the petition together. Finally, the EIA. The Christian Union would like to see the Commission's room for manoeuvre for the m.e.r. is extended. At present, the committee can only react by law at the request of the person who wants to take action. We consider a broader role to be desirable, as actively signaling that an EIA procedure must be completed or an independent test carried out at the request of the House of Representatives. Does the Cabinet also see the added value of such a legislative extension? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u49	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Wassenberg, who was really excited.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u50	Mr. Chairman. You saw well that I was eagerly impatient to make my contribution. It is also because I do not have every day the opportunity to debate with these rulers and this excellent selection of Members of Parliament. Hence my impatience. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the last budget of what used to be called the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment. Only the term Environment has been deleted from its name by the greenest cabinet ever. After three and a half years of policy, we can also see why this has happened: the environment has turned into a very small amount of the underprivileged child. Too often the environment loses out in the various weighing of interests, for example when it comes to asphalt. That turned out again yesterday, when the Minister pushed through that bizarre broadening of the A27 at Amelisweerd. That's where valuable nature is destroyed, nature that's going to be compensated on paper. But an old forest that is cut down has great ecological value, has a lot of biodiversity, it takes decades, sometimes longer, before new nature has the same quality. And yes, you don't compensate with a circular bicycle bridge. The last few years have been mainly for more asphalt, for polder with business interests, for more environmental scandals. The granulate scandal, revealed by Zembla, is a recent example of this. I am not going to explain our vision again today, we have done so in recent years. Last weekend, our election program came true. This also expresses our systemic criticism, even at the time of the covid pandemic. Zoonoses are more topical than ever, but I am keeping it very specific today. I am, of course, addressing the cabinet, but also my fellow chamber members. For some of us, this is the last budget. As Mr Laçin said, this is his last IenW budget. It seems to me that this is a good time for the Chamber to clean up, to settle some of the issues that you all undoubtedly thought: we need to settle this, this last budget is a good time for that. Then I start with something that seems very small, but which is a big problem: balloons. If I buy a bag of balloons and I empty them out on the street, I get a fine. But I fill those balloons with helium and let them up, after which they end up in nature, in the ditch, in the sea, they eat animals that cause them to die, then suddenly it's okay. But you can't explain that, can you? Those are the same balloons, but the damage is much greater. That's not right. Doesn't the Secretary of State think this is crazy? I also ask my colleagues: is it not strange that you should not throw away a balloon in the street, but should you leave it on and be allowed to enter nature, where that balloon does a lot of damage? We can arrange that as a room. Why don't we put the intake of balloons along the same measuring bar as throwing out balloons in the street? I'll be coming in tomorrow in the second term with a motion on that. Then there's something weird about it, another topic we've talked about before. What do you do with worn-out tires? If you shred them and you smash them into nature, that is of course forbidden. But if you shred them and pour the grains onto an artificial turf field, then those grains can still end up in nature, then suddenly it's okay. That's really weird, especially since there are alternatives. The Party for Animals would like us to phase out artificial grass or at least artificial grass with rubber carband scatter. I would also like to comment on this, because I would like to table a motion on this tomorrow. Then there is international legislation on sulphur emissions from sea-going vessels. That is a very good step, but if the ships then do not discharge the sulphur by air but by water, then the environment will not get anywhere. The ocean is already seriously souring. I would like to ask my fellow chamber members and the Minister: let us at the International Maritime Organisation call for an end to these so-called 'open loop scrubbers'; excuse that ugly term. Mr. Chairman. Garbage. The cabinet focuses on few ambitious recycling targets. The number of packages continues to increase. Every year, 100 million packagings are added. Why not set an annual reduction target for packaging? So not only are we going to bet on recycling, which is very important, but we are going to bet less packaging every year, because prevention is better than cure. Unnecessary packaging, packaging that you can avoid, you also have to avoid, because you see what happens to it. If you don't mind in this corona time, I like to walk. I live in South Limburg, so I go into nature in South Limburg: beautiful forests, but more and more polluted. After a while in nature I used to come, pre corona, always with a bag full of crap at home, mess I had all gathered to throw away at home. But it's really frightening what you see in corona time. The bag I'm taking is already full after half an hour, which I used to do for an hour and a half. Much more is being poured into nature. The cabinet has taken a hard-won step in the field of deposit money. Genuine compliments for that, but you can see that this is going to lead to evasion. There'll be other packages, all kinds of weird packages to make sure they're not covered by deposit money. Or suddenly dairy is added to the drinks, making it suddenly a dairy drink and there is no deposit money on it. That makes it all clumsy and more complex. Why don't we keep it simple and extend it to all kinds of plastic, aluminum and tetrapack? Dairy, juice, soft drinks: deposit money on everything. I'd like a response. Another thing that goes without saying: how to deal with bad air from the emission of smoke. That's what happens at biomass plants. That is a big problem, but we will be discussing it with the Minister of EZK next week. But woodstick is also a cause of bad air. On a small scale, but spread throughout the country and in the middle of residential areas. It's a cause of health damage. During covid, a lung disease is an extra big problem, but I don't see any movement in the cabinet to deal with heaters. Why don't we formulate targets to reduce the number of heaters and the number of heating hours? The PBL shows that it works well in Germany. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. This is the last IenW budget of this cabinet. I have mentioned a number of specific points, some of which have been going on for years. I ask the cabinet and I also ask my colleagues: let us take care of these matters now and not throw them over the fence at a next Chamber and a next cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u51	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. Mr. Graus, come over here with your phone. Oh, no, you can't do that with corona. But you can't. Right? You're just gonna play something in the middle of the hall? Mr Van Raan, on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Shrink. Where it goes with aviation is clear. You know, the Animal Party has been advocating this for years, and in this debate we will also make a number of concrete proposals to achieve this. When I asked a KLM driver at a hearing a few years ago how the company was going to prepare for this inevitable shrinkage in aviation, the answer was: we are not doing that. This attitude of the KLM summit has cost the company dearly. By the way, the shrinkage of aviation was faster than expected, because of corona. Topman Pieter Elbers, who for years refused to prepare his company for the inevitable shrinkage of his sector, was not fired and had no idea to proactively take his 2019 bonus off the agenda. But he quotes his statement'sorry about the unrest'. It is an illustration of the old abnormal, in which both the sector and the government are stuck. Mr. Chairman. This old abnormal makes it possible that the number of flight movements has exceeded all limits of climate, living environment and safety of humans and animals. An unsustainable situation that we should not want to go back to. But the bad news is that the government parties still do not want to let go of the old abnormal of the aviation sector. Let me give you a few lows, many lows. The ink of the Climate Agreement was not dry in 2019 or this minister was proud to defend a growth of Schiphol. There were errors in the E.R., nitrogen calculations, bird reports, sound effects, nature permits. I read a striking description in the column of Sybrand Frietema of the Friesch Dagblad: "Citizens make the calculations in the evenings from the government reports where expensive research agencies have hidden them in during the day." This is part of the decision-making process whereby this cabinet, I really blame the cabinet for this, is constantly affecting the democratic fabric. Mr Dijkstra of the VVD dared to call that 'careful'. Does the Minister actually know this, I wonder? Mr. Chairman. Other lows. Acting unfairly. The government put on the table 744 million euros of tax money, which is now worth only a third, with a lot of bombs and illegal money. Maintaining tax havens. Schiphol remains a tax haven with an embarrassingly low tax. Thanks to a blank cheque for the KLM, of which the Minister of Finance, but also this Minister of IenW, cannot explain how they are ever going to make it back with the revenue model that aviation currently has, billions of taxpayers' money are disappearing in the bottomless aviation well. But, Mr. Chairman, there is also good news. On the horizon there is a bright future with fewer planes and more trains. Because citizens will no longer be able to sleep through ship-holes, as if this could happen because of the noise. Citizens are pulling their hands together. Last week there was a beautiful civilian table organized for and by citizens. I ask the Minister if she sees any opportunities to further support such initiatives. Mr. Chairman. Then it's concrete. The Dieren Party proposes, among other things, to radically reduce the number of flights in the Netherlands, to cancel Lelystad Airport immediately, to close Rotterdam The Hague Airport and transform it into a city park, to close Eelde Airport, to drastically end Maastricht's nuisance, to put an end to Schiphol tax haven and to make frequent flyers pay more. The proceeds can then be invested in the transition towards sustainable transport and retraining of staff. Mr. Chairman. All signals are green for a shrinkage of aviation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u53	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u54	Mr. Chairman. In 1983, as a 9-year-old boy, I experienced a funeral for the first time. A 7-year-old girl, two classes under me, was killed in a road accident. The village where I live, Elspeet, was in turmoil last week. A 2-year-old little boy died in a road accident. It turned out to be the grandson of those people who lost their daughter in 1983. Mr. Chairman. In my working period at Rijkswaterstaat I saw a lot of reports about road accidents on the N50, on the N18, on the A50, and so on. Each time you saw that if the road layout had been something else, it might have ended differently. Mr. Chairman. For me there is the motivation to say when I became a Member of Parliament: road safety is a spearhead for me. The SGP chooses to protect life, because every year we cannot live with 600 road deaths and thousands of road victims. I would like to congratulate the Minister, because she has taken good steps in recent years. But we have to note that the figures are still not positive. That is why my question is whether, during these last months of its term of office, perhaps it will be another year or so, that provinces and municipalities will be able to keep up with the implementation programmes to tackle regional bottlenecks and that there will be sufficient structural funding for this. Mr. Chairman. I also had a piece on parcel delivery, but Mr Dijkstra of the VVD has said such beautiful things about it that I join in one-on-one and thus also win a minute, not for myself but especially for you. I will continue with the maintenance, because the maintenance of bridges, viaducts and locks continues to cause concern. Truck drivers are too often faced with unpleasant surprises. Think of the closure of the A44 for heavy goods traffic. In the first months of this year, however, inland waterway freighters had 140 brakes on the Meuse Corridor alone. Until 2025, there is a budget deficit of 1 billion euros or even higher and more than 1 billion euros for delayed maintenance. At the same time, industry in the infra sector is looking forward to projects in connection with corona. My question is whether the Minister sees opportunity and opportunities to bring forward maintenance of locks and bridges. If so, what is needed in the organisation at the Ministry and at the Rijkswaterstaat and perhaps also in the market? Mr. Chairman. For the period after 2025, the directors have significantly reduced the investment space by transferring from budget to management and maintenance and to Rijkswaterstaat. Yes, it is very clear that that maintenance domain needs that budget: keep for building. But still, how is the cabinet going to ensure that there is sufficient investment space in the future? Because we can't stand still. Mr. Chairman. Last Friday I was visiting a contractor, De Jong Zuurmond in Beesd. That's a wonderful company. Such a man starts with a trigger and now, a whole number of years on, has built up a company with about 500 employees, innovative. That is such an entrepreneur that I and I believe the Minister and many others love. They were busy and they continued to innovate, but they had a concern, because they do a lot in maintenance contracts. That day-to-day maintenance doesn't make much money. The earning model is in small new construction, renovation and modifications of the network, but they indicated that the trend seems to be to decouple the contracts in this respect. With more renovation perhaps also just that little piece of new construction disappears and it actually becomes very shaky in everyday maintenance. That's what I'm worried about with this company and with similar companies. My question to the Minister is whether she recognises and recognizes this concern and whether she wants to ensure that SMEs stay on the ground, because I think we really need these kinds of companies to keep the Netherlands running. This is not only possible with large contractors or even with foreign parties. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the Growth Fund and the Mobility Fund. The Amsterdam region has presented a plan to extend the North/South line and would like to claim EUR 3 billion or EUR 4 billion from the Growth Fund. I get that; let me say that here too, but this does raise questions. Is it true that this proposal was submitted by the Ministry of IenW in the first round of the Growth Fund? I read that in the paper. If it's in there, I'd like to know that as a Member of Parliament, too. My question to the directors is what this relationship is between the Mobility Fund and the Growth Fund. There was just an interruption debate between Mr Dijkstra of the VVD and myself. Do they consider it desirable that decisions on major infrastructure projects should be taken at two tables with different keys? What should not happen is that Amsterdam will receive 3 billion for an extended North/South line, while Zeeuwen will continue to pay a toll for years to come for a North/South line, the Westerschelde tunnel. It runs in the same direction, a bit further in the Netherlands. A few months ago, apart from the coalition parties, there was broad support for the toll-free operation of the Westerschelde tunnel. It hung on one voice. Seagulls have had to pay tolls for the Zeeland Bridge. They had to buy tickets for the ferry services and now have to pay a toll for that new tunnel until 2023. The SGP believes that this has taken long enough and I actually hear that this is the case widely in the Chamber. So I say, together with the province, draw up a plan to make the tunnel much more toll-free and pull the wallet for this as a Reich. I've seen the SP and PvdA amendments. I think that is a very sympathetic amendment. I have to say that I think the coverage is a little thin, but I understand that there is something to talk about. So let's do that between now and tomorrow night, but if we can find some cover with each other that's a little decent, I'll support that amendment. Let me say that right away; that saves a question. I would also like to talk about inland waterway transport, because it must be able to carry on. We hope to get back to that in the MIRT debate. But for now, a question about the berths. Schippers increasingly see signs with "forbidden mooring due to lack of maintenance" while each berth counts. A number of berths disappear every year, while very few are added. My question is whether the Minister wants to show how the number of berths is developing. Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of this cabinet period, an SGP/VVD motion was adopted for better accessibility of smaller cities with the O.V. In this respect, I find it quite remarkable that the intercity connection Amersfoort-Amsterdam is being deleted. It's going in the wrong direction, I say. My question is: what is the government doing for better train connections with those smaller cities? The SGP advocates a station at Barneveld-Noord on the line Amersfoort-Apeldoorn. In my opinion, it should not be necessary to drive all the way from Eden via Amersfoort to get to Apeldoorn, while the track is just there. Mr. Chairman. The Chamber has adopted a motion from my hand asking the government to support the maritime sector as much as possible because it is in very heavy corona weather. My question is whether the Minister intends to do her best to bring forward investment in the Rijksrederij in order to water the sector under the boat. It's really necessary. So my question is: does it want to clarify quickly about the fleet replacement programme and do it want to focus on the maximum involvement of national industry, as other European Member States do? Mr. Chairman. Then bio-long. This can play an important role in the sustainability of freight transport. There is now a temporary arrangement, but it will end next year. The main problem is that, like natural gas, it has been subject to an increase in excise duties. That doesn't make the business case favorable. My question is: what are the rulers going to do to ensure that bio-lng gets a boost after 2021? And then there's transport poverty. Households and small businesses see fuel and parking costs rise, while they have no money for an electric car. Or they're facing stricter demands for environmental zones, when they don't have money for another car. How do government leaders intend to prevent sustainable transport poverty? The last point concerns the interruption I had with the CDA about the coach industry. To make a long story short: Minister Wiebes says to me "it's all right." But I spoke to them again and the proposal is very simple and then the customization is in it. My proposal is: make the TVL really suitable for the average company, 42% instead of 33% TVL, and then make a one-off contribution for those sustainable buses Euro-5 and -6. Then you get the top of the market out, too. So with that concrete proposal, the TVL to 42% and the Euro-5 and -6-buses a one-off contribution, we are really helping the sector out. The KNV says so and the entrepreneurs say so themselves. My question is whether the Secretary of State wishes to deal specifically with this very specific proposal. I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u55	Thank you. What a violent story you started with about the crashed child, Mr. Stoffer. I wish the family a great deal of strength. Mrs. Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u56	Mr. Chairman. Still coming back to the A27. I had hoped that Mr Stoffer would refer to this in his own speech. We are talking about careful decision-making. Mr Stoffer said to me: we have been working on this project for so long; then we must take a decision now. In the meantime, the Commission has adopted a proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound power level of motor vehicles and their trailers. in the last two opinions asked rather fundamental questions about the project. There's an alternative "inside the bin." That can be done much faster. So that would actually save time and there is the risk that the route decision that is now in place will eventually be rejected by the Council of State on nitrogen grounds. So my question to Mr Stoffer is really: if we now take care as a condition, then we must have the Commission for the m.e.r. Do you not want to have a good look at the proposed route decision again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u57	I can be long and short about it. I've been watching that A27 late last night, and my answer is no. It's been extensively studied for 12 years. I used to have a boss who said: studying is really good; it may also come out that you don't have to do something, but it's come out that you really need to do what you need to do. All the people here have been in traffic for years. That is of course less now, but if you see the KiM report that we talked about earlier, you will see that in 2025 we are in the situation of 2019 with all the planned investments in it. This project will not be completed until 2027. We really need it. It is really necessary to keep that turning disc of the Netherlands running. There's a lot of care in it. Suppose Mrs. Kröger is right, it'll fall to the judge. I don't think so, but if she is, then she's lucky, and then you should just start over and fix it. It's a long story, but the answer is very simple: no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u58	Mrs Kröger, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u59	If we, as MPs, are going to say 'then it will fall on the courts', then I do not think we are actually doing the due diligence that we should have in this country. The Commission for the m.e.r. Question the proposed decision very seriously, and so much is unclear about nitrogen. "The Commission's delay for the m.e.r."We'll talk about weeks. In doing so, we can spare ourselves the fact that an entire project is being fired by the Council of State for two years and that we need to start all over again. If Mr Stoffer of the SGP is in favour of careful administration, then I really do not understand why he is taking this intermediate step, which the Commission is in favour of. self recommended, does not support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u60	If there is one country where infrastructure is carefully built and where there is an incredible amount of participation, then it is the Netherlands. You get a little nasty every now and then. There has been 12 years of study and, right after 12, 13 years, we are finally starting construction at such a crucial point. No, it's been looked at extensively. In this respect, I wholeheartedly support the route decision that has been signed. I think it is necessary to move the Netherlands forward. I get the point. That's your political approach, but mine's really different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u61	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Today we are discussing the budget of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State for the coming year. That's worth over 16 billion. Let me begin with a few general observations. First of all... The Netherlands is getting fuller: from about 15 million people in 1990 to almost 17,5 million now. And if the cartel parties are to blame for VVD, CDA, Labour Party, D66 and so on, a further 1 million people will be added in the coming years. It goes on and on and on. This, of course, goes on in the problems with our infrastructure. But I will get to that in a moment, because there is a second general observation that I would like to begin with. And that is that we are completely out of control in all environmental and climate measures. The limited space we still have in our country is filled with wind turbines and solar fields. As far as there is land left to build houses, housing is obsessed with all kinds of nitrogen measures. For example, the two main points on which the Forum for Democracy disagrees with the established order, with the established parties, are deeply linked to all these practical, concrete problems with regard to infrastructure that Dutch people face every day and which we are discussing today. Mr. Chairman. With over 500 inhabitants per square kilometre, the Netherlands is among the most densely populated countries in the world. To our great regret it does not appear that this will be reduced in the coming years. As has been said, immigration is continuing because of the pro-immigration policy of VVD, CDA and so on. And that has all kinds of consequences. It has consequences for our cultural identity, it has consequences for security and it leads to learning disadvantages in education, but of course it also leads to housing shortage. The increase in the population also makes it increasingly difficult to get from a to b in the Netherlands in a safe and smooth way. Assuming that the very harmful lockdown we're in is finally lifted at some point and that we can just go back to work and visit friends or go to the theatre or restaurant, we'll see that we're in traffic more and more often or in the trains hut. Those who thought that now, at this time when things are quieter on the road, we could just keep driving on the highway after all many people working at home have come out cheated. Mid-March this year, VVD Minister Cora van Nieuwenhuizen reduced the maximum speed from 130 km/h to 100 km/h. An inhumanly slow speed to move with. You will have voted for the VVD as a motorist anyway! During the campaign Rutte called the VVD the "vroomvroom party." Turns out it's the tuftuf party. Car bullying has been lifted to a new level. "A rotten measure" called Rutte that speed reduction at the time, but it would be necessary to get the construction back on track. In the meantime, it has been calculated that the nitrogen gain by restricting our freedom and setting a maximum speed of 100 km/h is totally, but completely, negligible. It saves about 15 grams of nitrogen per hectare per year, which is less than one dog turd contains. Why, after it has been shown that it is completely pointless, has this pacific measure not been reversed immediately? In any case, the reversal of the speed reduction is one of the first measures we will take after 17 March. Back to 130, anytime, anywhere you can. And it should be a bit louder, where that is possible. "Maximum speed according to German model," we formulate it in our election programme. Research also shows that as the maximum speed is more credible, given, for example, the width of the road, the average speed is also closer to the limit, and the maximum speed is less often exceeded. There are also indications that differences in speed between drivers will be reduced, which will improve the flow. In the meantime, despite these facts, the number of road checks continues to increase. It is common money-laundering and, moreover, incompatible with human dignity. That is why I ask the Minister if she can provide an overview of all the traffic checks currently in operation in the Netherlands, indicating how much money is collected and what their impact has been on road safety, on the basis of the number of road accidents and victims before and after the introduction of these traffic checks. It is on this basis that we want all route checks to be reconsidered. And only those road checks which actually make a very clear, very significant contribution to road safety could possibly be maintained, but all others could not. In our view, it is contrary to human dignity and freedom to impose route control on people. We're not fucking sheep, which you can take away from individual driving freedom in this way! The VVD has finally decided not to stand up for the motorist, as the new VVD-election programme shows. Earlier, the party said it would fight against the policy of milking the driver as a milk cow, but there is nothing left of it. Apart from the fact that the party suddenly accepts the high taxes, there is even a plea for paying a mileage tax, i.e.: road pricing. I can't believe the VVD made such a move to the left, and today FvD is apparently the only party that really stands up for the interests of the motorist. We also call for substantial and sensible investment in our infrastructure, right now. The Netherlands is heading for an enormous economic crisis due to Rutte and De Jonge's stupid and non-rational corona policy. More and more people are losing their jobs and there are fewer and fewer vacancies. According to a recent report, half of all SMEs would even fall. Smart investment can provide a huge boost to employment in the short term. Staff member Stoffer mentioned just a few examples: maintenance of bridges and locks. So if we do these investments now, it can not only create jobs, but also strengthen the earning capacity of the Netherlands in the longer term. This contrasts with the billions wasted on the energy transition, which are also called "investments" by this cabinet, but which never recoup. As we know, we want to invest in the points that Stoffer mentioned about locks and bridges, which is an excellent idea, but also in an airport in the North Sea, for example. That is an example of a fantastic investment, which would really help us. But our VVD minister wants to realize a completely different idea in the North Sea, namely a lot of wind turbines, which ruins the view, scatters birds and loses a lot of tax money, while we do not win that huge space, which is now occupied by the airport around Hoofddorp, if we move Schiphol. We also want to invest in other forms of mobility: hyperloops, good connections to abroad, high-speed trains and super-fast fiber so that you have super-fast internet throughout the Netherlands and can work more flexibly. It's all investments that we could really have. Moreover, in several regions, accessibility is still inadequate. That is why we also have a number of other specific points that we would like to make in this debate. Firstly, the construction of the A8 and the A9 must be speeded up in order to improve the accessibility of the Zaanstreek and IJmond regions. The Westerschelde tunnel must be made toll-free. That offers huge opportunities for Zeeland. In Overijssel, we want the N35 to be upgraded to a fully-fledged highway, so drivers can drive smoothly and safely to Zwolle and Enschede. For the northern regions, we advocate a Lely line, a high-speed line from Amsterdam via Flevoland to Groningen. These are all concrete and feasible plans, which are also affordable if we stop the pointless climate plans. Stop pestering motorists. Invest heavily and wisely in projects that we really do have. Speed up improving the accessibility of the region. But stop mass immigration. A voice at Forum is the only real voice for mobility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u63	I have a question for Mr Baudet. How do you look at charging? That's not entirely clear to me. Are you for or against charging?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u64	No, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u65	That was short. Last question, Mr. Schonis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u66	That was indeed a short answer. I've been looking at your website for a while. Here's what's going on. In terms of sustainability and innovation, you say: "In view of the further growth of national car ownership and the changing need for use, car ownership is no longer the relevant factor for taxation. We therefore want to drive a bill." You write that on your own website. Well, that's striking, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u67	Moving insight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u68	Moving insight? So you're against charging, but you're advertising that you're still ahead?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u69	Well, advertising, advertising... I don't know exactly what you mean by "advertising," but it's moving insight. I'm not in favour of charging.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u70	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Baudet on at least taking part in a budget debate on IenW. Over the last four years, we have had to lack his presence in the committee where these many subjects have naturally passed. But that doesn't matter... I would like to avoid accusing Mr Baudet of seagull behavior. You know it: the gull flies over, drops something and flies on again. I would therefore like to know whether he can also indicate some form of cover for all the points he has inserted. 'Cause they're really beautiful projects. They are also toys and preferences that have been suggested to our party, but we also always look at the feasibility and affordability. Has Mr Baudet taken this into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u71	Yes. Most of the examples, plans and proposals I mention are investments. So they're gonna earn themselves back. But you can also finance it quite easily now if you stop mass immigration and the climate plans, where almost all of our prosperity is going at the moment. So that's no problem at all. We keep repeating that. This cabinet has filed a climate law. It's going to cost us about 1,000 billion over the next 30 years. Massive and continuous immigration costs more than 10 billion a year. That's where all our prosperity is headed now. If we stop doing this, we will have ample scope for this type of project.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u72	Finally, Mr Ziengs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u73	I think this is indeed the last interruption I am allowed to do. Mr Baudet is now flying high. He gives all kinds of examples where you can compare one with the other. My question was very specific. If it is really about that IenW budget, then we have in that budget what it costs and what it delivers, in the end. Mr Baudet takes something out of the air and then says: that is what we are going to earn. Does he now also have concrete examples of how we are actually going to achieve the funding, but also the recovery, on all those points he mentions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u74	For example, that airport in the North Sea that we want to build is not currently included in the budget of Infrastructure and Water State. So I can't take it out either, because it's not in there. But if we had written that budget and been at the helm, it would have been there. This coverage would have come from other posts, all of which are now being cut off from all kinds of subsidies for renewable electricity, wind turbines, solar fields and so on. You can only make a different plan for a budget if you look at the whole government budget. You can't just do that in that ministry. Of course, that's a beating in the margins. You have to come up with a big, different plan, and I presented it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u75	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament and the governors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-7.u76	Thursday from about 5 p.m., the Minister and the Secretary of State will respond on behalf of the government.
