ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law of members Bishop and Kwint amending the Law on Primary Education, the Law on Centres of Expertise, the Law on Secondary Education and the Law on Education and Vocational Education in connection with the abolition of the Teacher Register and the Registry Portal (35145). I would like to welcome the initiators and the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media. Thank you for joining us. The latter is present today at the legal process as an advisor to the Chamber. That's why he crawled all the way into the corner of box-K. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The response will be discussed at a later date in consultation with the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u2	I would like to give the floor to Mrs Westerveld as the first speaker on the side of the Chamber. It will speak on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and has six minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u3	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the floor and thank you to the authors for this bill. Although some legislative proposals seem small, it always seems to be a lot of work. I remember sitting there with Mr Kwint a while ago. I also remember a few years ago when we said to each other: well, all we have to do is add a sentence. But then it turns out that writing such a bill deserves a very thorough approach and that there is often a lot of work in it. So thank you very much for that. Mr. Chairman. I was reading about the proposal and read in the Volkskrant: MPs are plotting the neck blow for the teacher register. That was the headline of the article. I can also see Mr Bishop shaking his head for a moment, because I saw a quote from him in that article that the 'legally impure' is that there is now a register in the law that is actually out of operation. I thought of myself that I can guess from whom the term "neckstroke" comes. Mr. Chairman. I read in another article that Mr Bishop said: this is top-notch gossip. That is a statement I can also make, because the register has a rather long and complex history. Maybe it's okay if we just go back. The register used to be a wish of the trade union movement, also partly of the General Education Association, a trade union where I myself worked for many years. The idea behind it was to turn teacherhood into a protected profession. This could then be done with the help of a register. Even in reports of the predecessors of what is now the AOb, you come across this wish. The starting point behind it is also simple. In the opinion of a large number of teachers and also unions, politicians, educational directors and educational publishers have a very big finger on the content of the lesson. Teacher organisations have found that, as far as I know, the board should create the right working environment and that within the right conditions, the teacher could do his job well. Lesson modules, change of course, etc. are a matter for the teachers, the teachers' team, has always been said, and the confidence and control must be restored to the teachers. I think that a large part of this Chamber really agrees with that. One of the conditions for access to the teacher register was therefore that there should be a completed teacher training. In order to remain in the register, teachers had to stay in front of the classroom and also keep track of their profession. This can be done, for example, by taking courses, but also by developing course modules yourself. These are ways of keeping up with the knowledge and keeping it in that register. In short, we have started with all kinds of good intentions with the introduction of that register. We can see that in other professional associations there is sometimes already a register, for example in the care sector. So you can see who's qualified. But this was missing and still missing when it comes to the teacher's profession. Mr. Chairman. Everyone in this Chamber will believe that the profession of teacher is a very responsible job and that it must be exercised by people who have the right qualifications and who also keep up with their profession. The idea behind a register was also that there would be some kind of professional pride. After all, you don't just get in. I told you before, you must have completed an education and you must continue to do your job. The idea was also that teacher would become a protected profession, which not everyone should just call themselves a teacher. I would like to ask the authors if they have looked into this background. Do they see with me that the origin of the idea of the register was a number of substantive, good reasons? I would also like to ask them how they see their proposal in the light of the strengthening of the teacher's profession and its status. Perhaps they can comment on how they see it in the answers. In the meantime, of course, a lot has happened in the process, from the wish there was to the execution and the moment when we stand. For example, the previous cabinet, especially Secretary of State Dekker, had the idea that a register could also be very useful to settle teachers. Their performance could be better monitored. You could fire teachers sooner. Of course, that's not the idea at all that there was at the unions. As a result there was a lot of unrest and a lot of strangling, I can say. In the meantime, we are on the point that the teacher register has been in the refrigerator for a few years and that we are actually not doing so much with it. That was also the reason for the proposers to say that perhaps we should abolish it altogether. But we have also ended up in a different time, namely a time when we have a huge shortage of teachers. I have just looked back at what my predecessor, Mr Grashoff, said about this. Ironically, during the debate in 2016, he tabled a motion, together with the PvdA, in which he said: there is a teacher shortage coming and a plan of approach should be made to counter teacher shortages. In the meantime, of course, we are at a time when schools, and we too, find that there is a huge shortage of teachers. Perhaps the plan came into being then, but at least the approach did not work very well. My colleague said at the time: we should make sure that we work towards solving the shortage of teachers before entering a register. GroenLinks can therefore very well support the ideas of Mr Kwint and Mr Bishop, who say: perhaps we should delete the teacher register, especially with all the problems that exist in education today. However, we would also like to ask the authors how they intend to ensure, after the deletion of the register, that the importance of good qualified teachers is not overlooked. Even in this time of scarcity, we must want to see qualified teachers standing in front of the classroom, who also have time to keep up with their skills. For the members of the GroenLinks Group, it is also important that teachers have control over their profession. Whether it is about the content of the teaching material, the means used or the way in which teaching material is offered: as far as we are concerned, knowledge and experience of the teacher himself are crucial. They should be leading. In order to regulate this control, the professional status has been created. As a result, teachers can talk about professional content, didactics, pedagogy and the assessment of student performance. However, the deletion of the register with this legislative proposal also removes the provisions on professional status. My question to the authors of this proposal is how they view this side effect, which also removes the professional status. Do they not agree with us that it is important for a teacher to be able to talk about how the lessons are completed and offered? How will this right be sufficiently guaranteed after deletion? This certainly applies to the time between their deletion and possible new legal frameworks, which are likely to be delayed. It is precisely the professional status that gives the teacher the space to organise the education according to his own understanding. This is something that the teacher not only deserves as a professional, but also something that is important in keeping the profession attractive, which is incredibly important at this time of flowing teachers and a huge shortage of teachers. We would like to ask the authors how they view this. In previous replies to the written input, the applicants referred to the professional status as inextricably linked to the teacher register. They say that because of the fundamental reorientation of the whole it cannot be maintained. But to what extent should there be a reorientation to the idea that the teacher should have control over the education he teaches? Is it not important to maintain the legal basis for this? Mr President, I shall conclude. I had a number of questions for the proposers. Once again, I would like to thank my fellow Members for the hard work they have done. I am very curious about the answers to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u4	Thank you. Then there is Mrs van den Hul from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My group also congratulates the authors on being here. It always deserves appreciation when MPs defend an initiative law. It is indeed an achievement to turn a political idea into a concrete proposal that must be made all the way through the Council of State and the Second and First Chamber in order to hopefully finish in the Official Journal. I now speak from my own experience when I say that Members of Parliament must do such a job with limited support, because they must do so without the official support of an entire ministry being at their service. Now that we are standing here, the two initiators, but certainly also their employees, deserve a great compliment, regardless of whether or not that Official Journal is finally reached. It is quite extraordinary to see two MPs sitting next to each other tonight who are only one letter apart from each other in their party name, but let me put it this way: otherwise, they are not the most obvious allies. The initiative we are debating today is a special legislative proposal. Legislation is usually about rules imposed on citizens or institutions, but in this case it is about a legislative proposal that seeks to delete legislation, namely the already suspended teacher register. As Mrs Westerveld has just rightly said, that register is already in the refrigerator in practice. And indeed, with the current shortage of teachers, there are perhaps more urgent concerns at school, namely whether there are enough teachers in the classroom. Teachers should be happy today if all students receive sufficient lessons and are sufficiently prepared for what follows. But the fact that we do not have to dance to a register as if it were a golden calf will be recognized by all. However, there is a desire that teachers do not fall out of the sky after school. Our society and our labour market are changing, and that means that those who have acquired their educational competence are not yet sufficiently skilled until the end of time. Retraining remains desirable as long as it is reasonably possible. That's part of the professional development of teachers. Do the initiators share this vision? If so, we can, in our opinion, carry the register for the grave. After all, we do so in the knowledge that we must look for other ways to encourage teachers to maintain their skills. Fortunately, there are all kinds of beautiful initiatives in development for and through the field, such as the Teachers' Collective, and a majority of the Chamber has already voted in favour of maintaining the Teachers' DevelopmentFunds LOF. As far as professionalisation is concerned, I do have a question for the Minister in his role as an advisor. To what extent does he see possibilities to make it practical for individual teachers to be able to follow further training and further training? It is precisely in this time of great shortages that it is important to make the professional teacher as attractive as possible, and that of course includes professional development. Only happy and well-educated teachers bring out the best in their students. In daily practice, this shoe appears to be wringing and not all teachers get enough room for this. Does the Minister share this concern and where does he see opportunities to better facilitate teachers in this? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I would still like to talk about the professional status. Mrs Westerveld mentioned it as well. According to the explanatory memorandum, the initiators see the obligation for schools to draw up a professional statute as closely linked to the teacher register. And they believe that if the register is abolished, the professional status could not be maintained or should remain. My group does not share that view. In the professional statute agreements are made on respecting the professional space of teachers. It regulates, inter alia, teachers' control over the content of the teaching material, the means used and the way in which the teaching material is offered. My group would therefore like to maintain this power. That is why I tabled an amendment together with my colleague Mr Westerveld. We look forward to the reflection on this by both the proposers and the minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u6	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. You are the author of today's only amendment. Mr Futselaar of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u7	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the initiative law of Mr Bishop and Mr Kwint on the abolition of the teacher register. First of all, as most speakers do, I would like to thank the initiators for their work and I am glad that we can now talk about removing from the law and thus finally abolishing the teacher register. Because we can say that the teacher register does not belong on the list of the most successful innovations in education in recent decades, a list that is not very long anyway. After previous success numbers of former Secretary of State Sander Dekker as the Education Co-operative and the not particularly well-behaved Education 2032, the SP, together with the SGP today, proposes to refer the teacher register to the Boulevard of Broken Dekker-Dreams. That term doesn't belong to me, as you might estimate. In 2016, the draft law establishing the teacher register was adopted. There were two reasons for entering the teacher register: not all teachers met the required competence requirements and the teacher's maintenance of their competence was insufficient. The bill established the professional area of teachers and the teacher register. In itself raising the quality and strengthening the position of the teacher in that register is not a bad idea. However, at that time it was forgotten to include a very important condition for the success of that teacher register, namely the teachers themselves. This turned out to be a recurring theme in the educational heritage of the previous cabinet. My colleague Jasper van Dijk mentioned in his treatment as one of the key criticisms of the SP Group on that bill that the organisations belonging to the Education Co-operation were in favour, but that the teachers were at best hopelessly divided between the teacher register. Just look at the reactions to social media at the time. Over and over again he asked the cabinet and the coalition parties: come up with evidence that there is support for this register! That went so far that even at one point the spokesman of the Labour Party clearly claimed that at the Teacher's Night she had spoken two teachers, who were in favour of the teacher register and that that was sufficient reason to assume support, rather than simply doing sufficient research. In the end, we see that the new cabinet has little confidence in the teacher register, the law has been put in the refrigerator and is now in the government agreement: in order to make the teacher register a success, it will have to be from, before and by the teacher. Then there is a strange situation, because what exactly does it mean when a law is put in the fridge? He has been hired by the Upper House, he has been hired by the Lower House. I would also like to ask the Minister as an advisor. Does this not create a very strange and, in fact, fundamentally undesirable state-of-the-art situation? Do you think it would be wise for the Minister to have that bill with this teacher's register, which was so much resistance in the field, as a basis for a teacher's register that would soon have to be from, before and by the teacher? Isn't it wiser to just say: okay, we'll delete these; we may have a desire for a register, but we'd better rebuild that and then let teachers take care of that work from the field? We all know that there are initiatives at the moment to organise the teachers' profession from the bottom up, which we very much welcome. Does the Minister not think that it would greatly help to support this important step for teachers if such an organisation could eventually create an actual register instead of having to carry out the hated register of the previous cabinet? Then there's the professional status. In the written round of questions, my group also wondered why the proposers also wanted to abolish the professional status. That is precisely the means by which teachers have control over their professional space. Of course we understand that it makes sense to say: if you delete a law, you delete the whole law and then you start with a clean slate when it comes to the professionalization of teachers, but you also have to stick to controlling professional space over teachers and being education. How do the proposers see this? Do we not threaten to throw away the baby with the bath water with this measure? Mr. Chairman. I'll leave it at that. In general, the SP welcomes this initiative law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u8	Well, that's a remarkable development. Mr Rudmer Heerema of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u9	Mr. Chairman. I thank the initiators for writing this law. Mr Kwint is sitting here with some regularity these days, so he seems to be having a lot of fun writing own-initiative laws. I'm curious to see the next step he's going to take in this. But I will also be honest: as far as I am concerned, this initiative law was not tabled. It is very important for Dutch education that teachers organise themselves in a self-conscious, professional profession. I believe that all the parties in this Chamber agree with that. That is why we have opted in the coalition agreement for a well-functioning professional organisation. In recent years, a lot of time has been devoted to creating a good professional organisation, but we have had to conclude that this has not been enough. That is why we have taken the steps with regard to educational cooperation and the teacher register has been put in the refrigerator. I'm sorry to hear that. That's a pity for my party. But this doesn't mean we have to throw away everything we've done so far. An infrastructure has been set up for a modern register. We should also remember that many teachers volunteered. It therefore has no function at all to break it out of the law now, because we have to deal with the good carefully. It'll have to be from, before and by the teacher. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, this is precisely the text in the coalition agreement, which contains four signatures, because it offers us an opportunity to strengthen the profession and to include competence. We all know that there are developments going on around the Teachers' Collective. Why would we bother a brooding chicken like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u10	I think it's really amazing what's going on right now. Chamberwide and especially wide in the profession, the teacher register has been so incredibly destroyed. Mr. Heerema is talking about breeding chickens. There's no more henhouse. That collapsed. Why am I hearing a plea here to keep the ruins of that henhouse still standing, while it was put in the refrigerator by the same cabinet, which is part of the VVD? Why was it put in the fridge? Because it doesn't work because there was no support. Well, I'm hearing about it again. What exactly do you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u11	At the moment, a Teachers' collective is working, from, by and by teachers, to build something that they think should be met by a register and the profession. I think it would be wise to leave the basis we have in the law. I have tried to explain to you that the VVD is in favour of a teacher register and the professionalisation of the profession, as we see in the BIG register, for example. In other professions it is also very normal to have such a register. I think it's wise to do that. I don't share your view that it's a ruin. I saw another not insignificant player in the field, like the AOb, passing by. He says: we are not in favour of this initiative law. There seems to be quite a few teachers involved. So I don't share that it would be one big ruin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u12	I share the VVD's view that the register was and remains necessary, but the whole process as it has happened... You mention the AOb, who had a huge hand in it. The AOb is not known for the representativeness of the field. That's one of the players, one of the usual suspects I'd say, who ruined the whole process. I think it is very unwise of you to call this particular party representative, because it is not. I also find it very unwise to want to keep this up after the whole invigorating process we have seen. It smells like the VVD's afraid of losing face. I'd like to recommend something. That loss of face is only real if you continue to do so, because there is no such support and there is no such support. It's contaminated. I'd like to call the VVD: stop it. Stop it and we won't talk about it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u13	We have taken a step in relation to educational cooperation. That was the step we wanted to take. Putting the teacher register in the refrigerator, as a number of colleagues have also pointed out, was the most feasible step for us. We don't want to go any further. We are in favour of keeping that teacher register in the law in this way. Let me come back to the AOb as representative of education. I'm not a fan of the AOb either, but I do find it interesting to see that there are a lot of teachers who seem to have an opinion on that and who have also sent it to us. That's why I mentioned the AOb here. Not as the representative of education, but as an organisation to which a number of teachers are affiliated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u14	Mr Heerema mentions a few things that he now qualifies as positive: we have brought the Education Co-operation to an end and teacher collective has been established, which is under development. Those are all things that the VVD strongly opposed, against that happening. So I cannot understand why Mr Heerema is now using this as an explanation of the position he is taking now. What has happened in Mr. Heerema that he is hugging this now? Why, to give one example, did he not vote in favour of facilitating that profession, of that teacher collective? The VVD voted against that and now it is an argument to say that we are really on the way to working on that register of, for and on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u15	I'm fine with the fact that there are teachers who picked up the glove to work on from, for and through. In my opinion, as a Chamber, the VVD has also voted in favour of taking steps with regard to educational co-operation. To be honest, I find it a little faint from Mr Van Meenen of D66. We had an exchange of views on this in the general discussions on this subject. Our opinions differ, but we have finally reached one position. You agreed, and I finally agreed. To use that as a kind of wedge, you don't adore, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u16	That's not what I'm here for. I am standing here to understand and also to make clear what is actually the history of this. The things you mention, I've fought for them. I fought, together with the CDA by the way, to put an end to educational cooperation. I fought to destroy the teachers' register because it was a freak. I also fought for it, along with you, that our coalition agreement states that there will be a teacher's register from, before and through. I still support that, and I don't think there's anyone here to fight that. My question is what is in the law that stands if there is a register of, for and by the teachers. How does that relate in the eyes of the VVD to what is now in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u17	What I would like to give to Mr Van Meenen is that, as a coalition and also as parties in the Chamber, we have put forward a course in relation to the Education Cooperation. I believe that, with all the differences we had and the efforts we had, we have reached agreement on how we would deal with that and continue to do so. One of the agreements was that the teacher register would remain in the law, albeit in the refrigerator, and that if it could be used we could start using it again. You can now try to go further than the agreements we have made on this, but I would find that very unfair of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u18	As far as I know, I'm not breaking any appointments here. I am simply asking questions to Mr Heerema, because there must also be a ratio for what we do with each other. I ask him, driven purely from the VVD: if we have agreed that we will go to a register of, before and by the teacher, how does that relate in the eyes of the VVD to the text that is now in the law? Because that's not a register of, for and by the teacher, is it? That's a register of, for and by the government. What will stand in the eyes of Mr. Herma if we achieve our goal of what is now in the law? That is a very factual question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u19	In my opinion, there can be a lot of that, namely when the profession has organised itself from the bottom up in such a way that there is support for something that it can agree with and with which we have a certain picture, so that we can actually shape 'of, for and through'. I am therefore quite prepared to consider how, in the long term, we can make that teacher register as portable as possible for, for example, the people who are now working on the Teachers' Collective. But that is, as far as I am concerned, future music, because we have to first see what will come out of that exercise in relation to the Teachers' Collective.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u20	I would like to try to keep it away from the past and from coalition agreements. I want to focus purely on the content. I understand Mr. Heerema's story to some extent. He's attached to professionalization. Things are being built now. But if something new is being built and maybe something new is blossoming, it can be a lot of trouble if it has to blossom in the shadow of that old teacher register. Does Mr. Herma see that with me? Things rarely grow in the shadows anyway. Now it is said: we must see whether the things they come with fit and whether we recognize them. Then you also suggest a little bit: it is nice what you come up with, but it must fit in with what we had already built. Then you're not actually working on making something 'through and for teachers', but then you're actually saying: this is the infrastructure we had, and it should fit in with what we had prepared. I am afraid that is more encouraging than encouraging the initiatives that are now being taken. Can Mr. Heerema see anything in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u21	I was just considering interrupting during Mr Futselaar's term of office, but I thought that we would probably meet in my term as well. I do not have the idea that what is now in the law and in the fridge is some obstacle for the teachers who are currently working on 'from, for and through'. I don't really understand why, if developments are going on, the Chamber should then intervene in a trial. That's also a little further up in my line. One of my questions is, for example, whether the legal basis for the Teachers' Collective falls away if this initiative law were to be adopted. I don't know. I think so. And that would also be a shame for the teachers who are now developing? Then they couldn't go on. So I see where Mr Futselaar is going with this. I understand what he's saying, but I don't think there's any obstacle at the moment from the situation we're in right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u22	I see at least one major obstacle, namely the incredibly toxic reputation that the teacher register has acquired, left or right, and whatever you think of it. That process has been far from beautiful; let me put it this way. That fact gets in the way the moment it is there and it hangs over the market, albeit in the fridge. Well, I hope there's not a fridge hanging over a market, because I'm also spokesperson NVWA and it seems very unsafe to me if there was a fridge hanging over a market. But this is disrupting such a process. A brooding chicken should not be distracted with... a fox hanging above the market. Let me put it this way, confusing metaphors. I am so afraid that the legacy of the past, with all the burdens attached to it, especially in the sector, will greatly disrupt the process. Doesn't Mr. Heerema understand that fear?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u23	I really don't see it that way. I don't have the impression that this obstruction is so heavy. When we finally arrive at a teacher's register, that name "teacher's register" still exists. Mr Futselaar talks about 'contamination'. Apparently, it will always be there in the future, and that would be crazy if we all strive for a teacher register of, for and by teachers? So, honestly, I don't have that fear. In my opinion, very nice things are happening at the moment from the Teachers' Collective in relation to a teacher register.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u24	Mr President, I will come back...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u25	I see it, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u26	... because I did a little digging.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u27	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u28	It's always good to take a look at the facts. Mr Heerema suggested just now that we have come to an agreement that the Education Co-operation would be lifted. How did the Education Cooperation come to an end? I filed a motion in 2017 stating that the Board of Education Co-operation should be transferred to teachers. As a result of that motion, which was adopted with all the votes in favour, one party except for the other, I will soon reveal which party that is; the minister was not in favour of the Minister then decided to pull the plug from the Education Cooperation. Or, stronger, the Education Cooperation has decided that itself. That is quite different from what Mr Heerema is suggesting here, namely that we have come to an agreement with each other. Because the only party that opposed that transfer to the teachers was the VVD. So how can Mr Heerema insist that the lifting of the Education Co-operation was the basis for the agreement that we would maintain that teacher register here in the way it stands now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u29	On the basis of the general consultation we have had on, among other things, the Education Cooperation and the opening I have offered to go along with it. As far as I am concerned, the fact that we are not voting in favour of a motion is not the time for us to get together. We have had all kinds of other discussions about this, as you know. If you take only the motions submitted in the Chamber as a manual, then I think we are failing entire processes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u30	Rounding up. I do not support the fact that as parties I do not even know at what stage of the formation we were in that we made the agreement with each other that the Education Co-operation would be lifted. That just came like a thunderbolt in the clear sky, because the Education Cooperation itself stopped. The AOb just pulled the plug. So that wasn't an agreement between us at all. Does Mr Heerema agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u31	I have a different picture of that; I can't make anything else out of it. Mr. Chairman. The VVD will vote against this initiative law, which is also the wish of a number of organisations in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u32	Thank you, Mr. Rudmer Heerema. I call Mr Bertema of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the initiators for their work. In the bill, colleagues Kwint of the Socialist Party and colleague Bishop of the Political Reformed Party did a lot of work; thank you for that. This bill aims to remove the provisions on the teacher register which have been incorporated into the various education laws by the Professional Teacher Act. The same applies to the provisions on professional status, also in view of the lack of clarity within secondary vocational education and training as to the relationship between the professional status already in existence in that sector. Mr. Chairman. According to the initiators, after an exceptionally invigorating period with far more falls than rising, Mrs Westerveld has just outlined history as a step-by-step path for the development of an organized profession. We fully share that view. I must say that we were at first very much in favour of the introduction of a teacher register, absolutely. The starting point was and remains that a self-respecting professional group of highly skilled knowledge workers who have a distinctive position in many areas of society deserve their own organisation, such as doctors, lawyers and so on. The most important thing is that such an organisation works independently of employers, although in cooperation. But the ownership and direction must be explicitly with those teachers themselves. Independently too, very important, of the many stakeholders and domes that populate the Dutch educational polder and who often are a problem because of their decades of existence have identified far too much with the wrong interests. That starting point, from, before and by the teachers, has not been fulfilled and ended in a tribal struggle, and that is extremely unfortunate. The register looked like shit. It had little or nothing to do with the original design of "from, for and by the teachers." The intended closure became the cause of the failure of the teacher register. The government itself has also come to the conclusion that a restart is necessary and that the profession itself is encouraged to establish a strong, self-conscious profession. We think that's a nice development. But the loss of educational cooperation and the teacher register cannot and cannot be the end of the ambition to achieve a responsible and representative organisation. That is where the questions begin for the initiators and for our advisor today, the Minister. We support the idea of putting all the plans in the refrigerator for the time being. The register has become too contaminated. I've just argued that in the interrupting debate with Mr. Heerema. That register really got infected. It has raised so much resistance that it would be absurd to march on stoic as the VVD now intends. I am afraid that is also true for other coalition parties. But we do have a dilemma with that. What's next? Do we still recognise the need for a robust representative professional organisation? I'd say so. What does the Minister, our advisor, think of that? What do the initiators say about this? The main players are, of course, the teachers themselves. What do they think? To clarify this, I would like to appeal to the teachers: you cannot do without a robust own organisation; stand up for that, take initiative, organize yourself. In the Teachers' collective that has arisen now, we may have a good chance. Mr. Chairman. We share the view of the initiators that it is very unwise to retain the teacher register in advance as it took shape in the 2017 Professional Teacher Act. We also find it undesirable that the teacher register is already largely enshrined in those education laws, while it is of course already clear that the intended mandatory register will be inoperative for a long, foreseeable period of time. The register may be in the refrigerator, but the cabinet still adheres to the obligations of the school authorities to provide teachers' data and to draw up a professional statute. That leads to a lot of confusion. We are not, by definition, convinced of the usefulness of removing the professional status, also because the professional status is still in force. With this status, teachers have at least something of free control over subject matter, didactics and pedagogy. Mrs Westerveld also spoke about this. My question to the initiators is: can you support and at the same time convince us why the professional status should be removed? That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u34	Thank you. I call Mr Van Meenen from the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u35	Mr. Chairman. Compliments to Mr Bishop and Mr Kwint, who have chosen the difficult path of an initiative law. Congratulations in particular to Mr Kwint. It's the second time he's done this in a short time. I see ambitions in this regard to join the SP in Cabinets in the near future. That votes for me...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u36	Sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u37	No, not at all. I don't think so. That cheers me up. Mr. Chairman. We're talking about the teacher register. This morning we had a written input on abolishing the calculation test, and now we are working on a tail of abolishing the teacher register. For let us be, it is two things that my colleague Rog and I have fought very hard for. Mr Rog is not here today. I wouldn't say: unfortunately he's being replaced. On the contrary, it is of course a good thing that he is being replaced by Mrs Kuik. But we fought very hard together for that. In fact, I dare say that Rog and I destroyed the teachers' register, as well as the Education Cooperation. That's what happened with a lot of opposition from both Cabinets. We just forgot to clean up the remains. That's what these two gentlemen will do for us for a while, at least that's what they're planning. But let us not be under any illusions: it is already dead. It's not like that's gonna happen today or with this law. It just happened. I'm committed to making that clear. Mr. Chairman. I have just mentioned the two measures we have been fighting for, the abolition of the calculation test and the abolition of the teacher register. We did not do this because we disagree with the aims of these two measures, namely the professionalisation of the teacher and children who can count well, but because this objective does not justify the means. In fact, those resources do not work to achieve that goal. Both are The Hague's plans that nip the space and the confidence of education in the bud. They are well-meaning, but they do not help education any further; quite the contrary. That is why the CDA and D66 have made every effort not to make the teacher register mandatory and to end the Education Co-operation, which could not count on the trust and support of the teachers and therefore not of us. Mr. Chairman. D66 is for a teacher register, with the hard condition, also included in the government agreement: from, before and by the teachers. We got that in black and white in the coalition agreement. As far as we are concerned, there will only be a teacher's register once the profession has formed itself in such a way that it can take control of itself. Not everything is about a register, but about the broad professionalisation of the profession. Until then, the text in the law is a dead letter. Can the initiators explain exactly what problem this legislative amendment actually solves? There are hopeful signals about the formation of professional groups. For example, in foundational education there is the Teachers' Collective and in the MBO the BVMBO. D66 has successfully advocated financial support for these initiatives in the start-up phase. Do the initiators share the view that these initiatives can play an important role in the professionalisation of the profession? In addition, at the initiative of D66 and the CDA, EUR 1 million has become available for TeachersDevelopingFunds. The initiators argue that the teacher register hangs like a dark cloud above the educational field and prevents the development of an organised profession. What do the initiators base this on? Has the Teachers' Collective, which is currently closest to a professional group, indeed indicated that the teacher register as it stands now in the law, is in the way of further development? I look forward to the answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u38	I was inspired by the interrupting debate between Mr Heerema and Mr Van Meenen. It also referred to the coalition agreement. Mr Van Meenen is doing that again. The coalition agreement states: "To make the teacher register a success." Now it appears that the coalition is not using the same definition. I wonder what Mr Van Meenen wants. Then what does he see under "the teacher register"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u39	The debate was not about whether there should be a teacher register of, before and by the teachers, because that is what we simply agreed. I do not see where there is a difference of opinion between D66 and the VVD. It was much more about me fighting the reasoning Mr Heerema used to explain why it is still a good idea to keep it that way. This was, for example, the point that his party was also in favour of the abolition of educational cooperation, etc. It just isn't. Actually, I just wanted to point that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u40	I was there, and I got that. No, what I mean is that Mr Heerema actually wants to vote against the proposers' proposal and that he says: we have a teacher's register and we should just go ahead with it; it's only in the refrigerator. Mr Van Meenen says here: we must abolish this register of teachers and we must start again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u41	That, anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u42	I was wondering how he saw that in the light of the coalition agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u43	My thesis is that the teacher register as we know it is dead. Now the question is: are we going to bury it or is it already so dead that it doesn't really matter anymore and we should put our energy into something else? That is an open question to me. I would never have come up with this idea, and I think it's a little opportunistic, because we're solving something here that's actually not a problem at all. That's the other side of the coin. I believe that you have also pointed this out in your own contribution. The point is, we're on our way to another teacher register. The little debate with Mr Heerema was about what that means, if you like it as much as he does, which I do not, but that doesn't say anything about what I'm going to do in the end. Could this law, as it is now, fulfil what we have written in the coalition agreement, namely: from, before and by the teacher? I have reservations about that. I do not think we can do that with this legal text, but I could also reason: we will see that by then, and then we will write the law so that we make it fit immediately. There are also useful elements in the current law, as you yourself pointed out, so you could also choose to leave that alone. In practice, it doesn't matter at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u44	In his speech, which I can support to a large extent, Mr Van Meenen is answering his own question. He asks: what will solve this proposal? We have one government party that says the teachers' register is dead and the other says it's not dead. But we have a law that includes the teacher register. Then Mr Van Meenen can say that it is a dead letter, but I do not remember Thorbecke, say, having designed a refrigerator in his system. It's the law! It may have been chosen not to implement it, but it is the law, so if the question arises who is right, Mr Van Meenen or Mr Heerema, then that is Mr Heerema, because it is in the law. Does Mr Van Meenen not see that problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u45	No, I don't see that, apart from Thorbecke having no fridge or fridge in his time, or whatever you want to call it, but that aside. It's a fact that it's gone in this cabinet period. Suppose there's a next cabinet that we're not in and there's some government teacher's register coming up. Then it comes, and then we're gonna go back to that fight. That is not something the gentlemen's proposal is going to help at all. They are now brushing away something that is actually dead, just not buried yet, so I think it's lost energy and a little populist, in the sense that it constantly gives rise to the suggestion that this ends the teacher register as we know it. No, that ended a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u46	When I come across something dead in my house, I find brushing away a very good idea, I say in general terms. Mr Van Meenen describes precisely the problem: if there is to be a next cabinet, then the register will still be there, because it is in the law. If you're saying that the teacher register in this form, not for and by teachers, is undesirable, isn't it only logical that you also say that we're going to adapt the law to that reality? The alternative is that you adapt reality to the law, and that is not what a majority in this Chamber wants, in my opinion, so adjust the law to reality. That is the proposal before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u47	Yeah, I know, but the reality is it's dead, at least in this period. And if there's a cabinet that wants to do what's in the law now, that won't be with us in a new cabinet. Elections are there to change things or leave things like that. It's an illusion to think that if you delete it now, it can never get into the law again. That's what I thought in 2016!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u48	Very good. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u49	There is much to be asked for imagination through the metaphors of the refrigerator, the excavation and carrying to the grave, and they also run a bit through each other. I don't understand it so well anymore. D66 says it's no problem, it's already dead. I would think that D66 is always in favour of the deletion of dead letters, but apparently that is not necessarily the case. Then D66 says: what happens in the next period, we have to see again. Then it's not dead, is it? Then you actually indicate that it is not in operation at the moment, but can indeed be revitalised at another time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u50	No, but my point is as follows. Suppose in a next cabinet the VVD adheres to the rules as they are now in the law. If we delete it now, they'll be back in in a year and a half. That's what I'm talking about. So it is an illusion to think that you avoid the problem that there are certain parties that actually say that there should be a teacher register that is actually maintained by the government by deleting this dead letter now. It can be re-entered at any time by a majority in this Chamber. That's how it works here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u51	It is true that there is always a need for a First Chamber and that a legislative process is then needed again. So I don't really understand why D66 doesn't say what would make much more sense to me: it's already dead, so make sure it gets out of that law. 'Cause if you don't, you're gonna get some kind of confusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u52	I say that because there are also parties that say... That is also quite difficult to foresee, because until recently the proposers did not foresee that either. Maybe they still haven't foreseen it. But there are also elements in the law that do have value. They are just not so much about the register, but about the professional status, for example. On the one hand, I get messages from the unions saying: stop this, stop this initiative law! On the other hand, I get the employers on the e-mail, who say: keep going! Then I think: what is Mr Kwint doing here? Is he trying to be mostly employers? I'd be surprised. At least that wasn't my intention. So I think it requires more care than just saying: we have a law here, and scrap it all, regardless of the consequences. I want teachers to have the best possible position. There are elements in this. Mr Bertema has also pointed out that they do give something of a position to teachers. So... Well, that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u53	But that's exactly why we're having this debate, isn't it? Finally, I would like to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u54	Exactly, exactly!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u55	You can tell me what it's worth saving and what really needs to disappear. Isn't that how you serve legal certainty for everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u56	That's right. That is why the outcome is still open to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u57	It is going to be a very foggy debate. Look, the position of Mr. Lordema's VVD was loud and clear. They are voting against this initiative law. But Mr. Van Meenen from D66 really keeps a wonderful story. By the way, I liked the fact that he still suspected the SGP and the SP of populism. Does that bother you too? But something surprises me. You talk very nicely about the remains and so on, but it seems that even D66 is going to vote against this initiative law and still want to maintain the dark shadow of the whole process that we have behind us. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u58	There's no one who's fought against that "hailless thing" as hard as I am. I have bullied everyone, including my own minister, if I may call it that. I took the lead with Mr. Rog. We killed the thing, I'm just saying. And now, after all the work has been done, the gentlemen come to say: we come to wipe things up a bit. And then I'm gonna have to cheer that they're gonna do that. We can put our energy into something else. And so it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u59	"That's the way it is." We're in the middle of politics here. You bring it very nicely, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u60	But the people in the country must also understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u61	Mr Van Meenen, Mr Beertema has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u62	Oh, excuse me!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u63	Mr. Van Meenen from D66 brings it very nicely. When he was tearing down that educational cooperative, I thought he was a hero. You were right to do that. But what's happening now increasingly has the smell of a political game. We'll soon hear about the CDA, your comrades in combat, who destroyed the Education Cooperation. Please note my words: she's going to tell the same kind of story as you, because there's just been an appointment made in the coalition, in which the VVD has gone first, to save Sander Dekker's legacy in the form of that Teaching Co-operation, the teacher register. I've really thought about why that is. I don't understand politics. Why do you want to leave such a mess as a legacy, and then force an entire coalition to maintain it? So I don't understand politics. Psychologically, I don't understand it either, because what do you want with such a mess as inheritance? I really don't understand anything anymore. I smell very strongly the smell of a political game. Maybe Mr. Van Meenen has a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u64	Well, you know me well enough to know that I don't play political games at all. I have just been very strict, if I may put it this way, to interrupt Mr Heerema. I'm just saying exactly how... That's what I'm doing here. To be honest, I think there's some sort of straw doll in here. "Look, we also want to show you something about the teacher register. You know what? We pretend that there is still a very vital teacher register, and we are going to kill it here with our own initiative law." I think this is a political game, and Mr Beertema is also involved in it, as I say to him through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u65	Okay, let's close this up. It could all be. I understand the irritation of D66 that these two colleagues here are going to take credit. I would say to D66: get over it, stay rational, do not let political narcissism prevail; just stay rational and vote for the initiative law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u66	It's all gonna happen. We're just working on the first term right now. Maybe I can finish my story, Mr. Chairman. Mr Bertema calls "no." Look, that's the PVV, isn't it? Freedom of speech, but not for everyone. Mr. Chairman. In addition to the register, the initiative law proposes to delete the professional status from the law. This statute is a guarantee for teachers against governments, for example, to define their own space, to be respected, to promote their own development, and to establish their own control over content and method and the pedagogical-eductic approach. The AOb also indicates that it would like to keep this part. I'd like a response from the initiators on this. The initiators want education to be free to work on professionalisation. In what way is this freedom being restricted at the moment? I would like to know from the initiators whether professionalisation and the attractiveness of the profession are sufficiently guaranteed, and if so in what way. Can the Minister explain how the inspection currently supervises professionalisation and how the professional status is implemented in practice? Is a school going to be in trouble if there is a thorough competence file and there is work on quality improvement and professionalisation, but no professional status is maintained? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u67	Thank you. Then Mr Van der Staaij, of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u68	Mr. Chairman. Everyone knows Master Sevast. He's been running his classes in a fixed pattern for 30 years. He teaches students a lot, but does he really shape them? Is he making them curious? His colleague Hippol is playing for the same length of time, but every time she tries to put something new into her lessons she has discovered herself. With enthusiasm she knows how to take her students. Hippol is not automatically good and Sevast is not automatically bad at teaching, but it is important that both of them maintain their knowledge and skills. Change is not a goal, but a means of rethinking and passing on something valuable. It's nice that we can talk about educating teachers again on the basis of a bill from this special duo, Bishop and Kwint. I understand that the proposers come from SGP and SP, parties that are not always in line with education and education freedom. But there are similarities. Bishop's biography on the site of the House of Representatives says the following. "The government unleashes a flood of measures, subsidies and decisions on education. From my educational background, I know from my own experience that many of these government measures have little or no effect. However, it often produces a lot of extra work. I would like to reduce the regulatory burden in education by three quarters. This will improve the quality of education." And in the description of Kwint, among other things: fighting together for change, small and large, has remained a common thread all these years. Well, something can come together there: go into battle with each other to see how you can also free education from unnecessary rules. I would like to congratulate you on the craftsmanship of these two combat coats in the field of education. It is always good to add a critical note, because it should not only be a eulogy. We in the group always have a strict dualism on initiative legislative proposals, so Mr Bishop certainly does not know what I am going to bring forward. The policy officer who supported him doesn't know that either. It is a good thing to delete those rules, but I am always critical in my policy areas when it comes to directors who delete those rules which in practice no one actually suffers from, because they do not even know they exist or because they do not yet have the force of law in practice. Can they therefore demonstrate that they can also cooperate in other areas in order to free education from unnecessary rules? In their view, what more rules could be eligible for deletion? Mr. Chairman. Then to this bill. The teacher register shall be deleted from the law. The teacher register indeed became an end in itself. I think the underlying purpose of this competence of teachers is wonderful. It's very good, but it's about the way it's done. It was too much imposed from above instead of coming from below. The suggestion of the register was not good either. It replaced the normal maintenance of the skills of the schools. It's about legal provisions. I think it's a fair point from the initiators that you can't simply put it in the fridge. The removal of articles which are not intended to work in practice gives much more legal certainty and clarity to everyone. In this respect, we can support this proposal for a directive, and this design can also be supported. At the same time, there is the question: what other measures do the initiators envisage to further strengthen teachers' skills? How could you improve that in a positive way, without it becoming a mandatory number that is ticked off? About the inspection, the applicants indicate that they must check whether the school complies with the obligations relating to professional competence, but that it should not test the individual teacher. How is this noble objective that the inspection does indeed focus only on checking on the basis of the broad lines of school policy guaranteed in practice? Mr. Chairman. Finally. Since this bill actually only deletes cases, I had to think of the expression "in the limitation shows itself only the master." These words are in Goethe's context of formation and civilization. And let that happen in particular in schools! He writes, and then I translate it into Dutch here in the Dutch Parliament: so it is with formation and civilization; in vain the spirits bound to nothing will strive for the completion of their high goals. Those who want high things must restrain themselves. In the limitation the master only shows himself. And only the law can give us freedom. Now that colleagues Bishop and Kwint, together with the supporters, have turned to their work of art as a master, I would say that a simple change of law often involves real freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u69	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Kuik of the CDA. And after her, I'm gonna suspend for dinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, I would also like to congratulate Mr Bisschop and Mr Kwint for drawing up this proposal. It is good to see colleagues putting their right to co-law into practice. Let me now turn to the content of the proposal. We have asked questions in the report about the need for this initiative proposal now that the government has also indicated that it wants to make a contribution to the implementation of the provisions on the teacher register in the government agreement. The CDA supports this government decision. We are not convinced by the answers of the initiators to our questions in the written report on the necessity. The government states not to activate this provision, also in view of its history. The CDA does not follow the argument put forward by the initiators that there is insufficient knowledge of what is going on in the field of education and fears that the legal provisions will be implemented. Minister Slob has indicated not to activate the provision. That's what the CDA Minister Slob keeps to. Moreover, if this is activated, it must be submitted to the Chamber here. There is no majority for that right now. Maybe after 2021; that's possible. I'd like to ask the Minister a question. We are curious what steps have been taken by the profession in the meantime. Another point on which the CDA disagrees with the initiators is the deletion of the professional status. We recognise with the initiators that there is still some uncertainty about the implementation of the statute by schools, but the statute gives teachers room for control over their own profession. This is important for the CDA, and that is why we do not want the professional status to be removed from the law. If this were to happen, teachers would again be dependent on other parties for the way in which the profession should be implemented, as the AOb rightly points out. Mr. Chairman. I will therefore advise my group to vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u71	Was this your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u72	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u73	I would like to add Mrs Kuik: told you so. There is a coalition agreement: this must not go on, something must be protected. I would like to ask Mrs Kuik: are all the arguments that have been exchanged, which have been put forward by the initiators and which have been put forward here by the spokesmen completely pointless? Does Mrs Kuik really not see the lack of support? This whole operation is totally infected, but does she still want to keep it up? Doesn't she see that, or does she just bend her head to coalition discipline and the agreement with the VVD that Sander Dekker's legacy must be kept in honor? It's a worthless legacy, and I would refuse such an inheritance. Is that the story?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u74	My question is: what problem do we solve with this? The law hasn't been activated at all. What are we gonna do about this? The law hasn't been activated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u75	As far as I'm concerned, it's dinner break. We are really engaged in a pointless debate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u76	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u77	On one point, I recognise the position of the CDA, and that is the professional status. That is why, together with Mr Westerveld van GroenLinks, we have tabled an amendment which seeks to preserve that professional status, as a legacy, let us call it 'what was there'. That's worth keeping. How does the CDA view our amendment in this light?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u78	I have not yet seen the amendment, but when I hear it, of course we are on the same page, namely that the professional status is certainly of value and that it should not be deleted. But what I said was that we do not support this initiative law. If there is no majority in favour of this, then the amendment is no longer necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u79	The reason I am asking for support for our amendment is that it might help the CDA to take a different decision. So I'll give that to Mrs Kuik for consideration after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u80	I am certainly going to look at the amendment, but I have also indicated that we do not see a solution to a problem here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-10.u81	Thank you. So much for the first term of office. Later we will listen to the answers of the proposers and the Minister's response and we may have a second deadline. I would like to thank the authors and the Minister for their presence here.
