ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u1	Good evening. At the end of this week we are going to deal with a legal issue aimed at improving the protection of stock exchange companies. Of course, that's not the official name, so I'm going to read it to you properly. This is a draft law amending Book 2 of the Civil Code in connection with the invoking of a period of reflection by the board of a stock exchange company. I would like to welcome the Minister for Legal Protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I am making this contribution on behalf of Mr Eppo Bruins of the Christian Union. Both the CDA and the Christian Union consider it extremely important for us to be able to deal with this law tonight. We have also agreed to include this in the coalition agreement. As the President said, this bill provides better protection for a stock exchange company in the Netherlands. One gets 250 days of reflection, in case a hostile takeover takes place or if a company has the intention to do so. In addition, a driver can be protected if his resignation is required. We therefore warmly welcome this proposal, because we consider it to be a very good fit for the Rhineland model, in which we take into account all stakeholders and not just shareholders' interests, which often only seek short-term profits. In addition to shareholder value, we are also concerned with employment, working conditions, corporate social responsibility, sustainability and innovation. With this bill, the board of a stock exchange company is thus given an instrument to create peace and quiet in a often chaotic period. We believe that the long-term vision of a company must weigh the hardest. This period can be used to map that well. Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, this bill is not a moment too early. A few years ago, of course, we saw almost hostile takeovers, both of KPN and AkzoNobel and Unilever. We believe that a fair economy also means that everyone benefits and that you let competition and sustainability go hand in hand, but also that there is a fair playing field. That's getting more and more pressure. We can see that in the corona crisis there is even greater strength. For example, Chinese companies can buy anything here, whereas we in China can do it much harder. You can often only get 49% of the shares there. For example, we are now seeing China's influence increase in the Westland. We therefore consider it extremely important that these stock exchange companies should at least be able to create an obstacle to preventing a hostile takeover, or a change of management with pressure on a change of strategy. Mr. Chairman. Recently, the Act on undesirable control of telecoms has been adopted. It also aims to provide better protection for companies in the telecommunications sector. This law fits in nicely with this, and also with the law that we are going to deal with about the system of investment tests. Fortunately, we also see that the government has taken measures and initiatives in recent months, such as a loan for Apotex, a pharmaceutical company, so that it could make a start. At the request of the European Commission, there was even a loan for SMART Photonics to ensure that certain technologies do not fall into strange hands. Mr. Chairman. As I said, it is not a question of preventing takeovers, but of making it more difficult to carry out a hostile takeover. We have seen in the letters we have received, for example from VNO, that there is also support from the employers' side and from the business side to come up with this bill. The CDA and the Christian Union are therefore very pleased with the support for this bill that we are seeing in full in society. Because, yes, we attach importance to an open economy, but also to that level playing field. This is often under pressure because state-supported companies from countries outside the EU are seeking a hostile takeover here. Mr. Chairman. So we support this initiative proposal on all sides, but we think it is a challenge to make the legislative proposal even more beautiful. We have tabled three amendments to that effect. I would like to explain that. The first amendment I submit along with Mr Paternotte of D66. This is intended to start the reflection period of 250 days at the time when the general meeting of shareholders is called and the agenda shows that a request for dismissal, for example, has been made. Those 250 days therefore do not begin to count when a shareholder with a often not public note has requested that a shareholders' meeting be convened. This amendment is intended to prevent an activist shareholder, a grasshopper, who is often only concerned with the short-term robbing of the company, from deciding when to run for 250 days, which in fact destroys the whole of the law. The second amendment is tabled together with Mr Bruins of the Christian Union. This should clarify situations where there may be both dismissal or dismissal of a driver and hostile takeover, a few months later. In both cases, this period of reflection should then be invoked separately. I also propose the third amendment together with Mr Bruins of the Christian Union. One may eventually have a procedure in the Enterprise Room. Now the law says that it must take place as soon as possible, but we insist that defences can also be drawn up there and in this way. That is why we want the wording to be different. We would like to hear a response from the Minister to the amendments. Finally, I have two technical questions on the legislative proposal. The proposed Article 2:114b (6) of the WFD suspends the power of the General Assembly as referred to in a number of articles during the reflection period, but in that list Article 2:161 (2) of the WFD, under which a designated representative of the General Assembly may request the Enterprise Chamber to dismiss a Commissioner, does not occur. Do we understand that this will allow the resignation of a Commissioner for a period of reflection? Can the Minister explain why this article is not specifically included? Article 2:114b also talks about policy, policy-making and the way things are going. Would the Minister be able to clarify this for the sake of legal history, because the report of this treatment serves to clarify this? Finally, a question and a comment on the regulatory burden. The ATR has said that there is no provision for evaluation in the law. Mr Van der Lee has already tabled an amendment on this, but I would very much like to know how the Minister thinks he can check whether the law is effective if Mr Van der Lee's amendment would not be adopted. Both the Christian Union and the CDA look forward to the Minister's response. And, Mr President, I have done my best to limit speaking time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u4	Fantastic, thank you, Mrs Van den Berg. If the chair has been cleaned, Mr Van der Lee of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's been quite a while since we've seen each other and talked about this subject. That was not with this govern ment, but with a outgoing minister, Mr Kamp, who may well be the spiritual father of this law, where Mrs Van den Berg is the spiritual mother of this law. But it took more than 1,200 days to think about this law. My first question is: why did that take so long? And if I look back even further in time: the reason was actually Mrs Van den Berg already mentioned the threatening hostile takeover of KPN by Carlos Slim. That was over seven years ago. Yes, we do not excel in speed of action. Fortunately, the threat we saw, especially when Akzo Nobel and Unilever were confronted with hostile takeover attempts, has not continued at that rate. Mrs Van den Berg is right to point out new risks. I call corona. We also know that Dutch listed companies have a certain set of framework conditions that make them vulnerable targets. Let me explain that to this minister, because he was not at that debate at the time. This has to do with the fact that we live in a euro area and that, in fact, the euro is undervalued from a Dutch perspective. That gives our companies a strong export position. We have the largest balance of payments surplus in all the Member States of the Union. We have large savings surpluses in our companies, which are relatively conservative in their investments. In short, they're on a lot of money. They are therefore also attractive, especially at a time when interest rates are almost zero, for hostile takeovers. This makes us even more vulnerable, and that is an additional reason to look closely at how we can ensure that when such situations are abused by locusts, companies have sufficient instruments to oppose them. And that makes sense, according to Jeroen Smit's book about Paul Polman's career at Unilever. I was talking about that book in another debate with Mr Paternotte this week. It's fascinating to see what has prevented a hostile takeover. The locusts from Brazil had received Warren Buffett with a story that it was not a hostile takeover at all. And actually, that had to go head over heels, but well, that took time, and Paul Polman managed to get to Buffett directly and convince him that this was a hostile bone. That's why Buffett dropped out and the takeover didn't go through. This in itself indicates that space and time are needed to act as stock exchange companies if there is a hostile situation. I see this law as a possible instrument for this purpose. At the same time, of course, there are other protection structures. I would just like to emphasise that Mr Kamp is a spiritual father of this law, because I have heard that at the formation table the VVD had some difficulty converting this one option that remained from a variety of options that the Minister had presented to us into a law. This took place after the debate we had on 6 June 2017. Even today, I see an amendment by the VVD to come, in particular, very close to a narrow interpretation of the coalition agreement agreement. So I look forward to the Minister's response to that amendment. But I'm not very excited about that amendment. That's what I'm gonna say. This even when it comes to the cause. Mrs van den Berg also mentioned the amendment I tabled to the evaluation clause. An important effect of this law may be that it is never put into effect, but it is preventive. The possibility alone can prevent attempts at hostile takeovers, of which Professor Schenk, who was also mentioned at the time, on the basis of research indicates that 75% of hostile takeovers fail. The takeover is successful, but the company goes into the abyss. I would ask that, if my amendment to allow the evaluation to take place in five years' time, it be possible to look carefully and include in the study what its preventive effect has been. That will be quite methodologically complicated, but that seems to me to be an important part, regardless of whether it has actually been invoked in practice and what happened then. These are two aspects of a good evaluation. In addition, I indicated in the debate that, if we meet companies by giving them additional protection, we can also ask for something back. In that debate, we talked about the importance of long-term value creation and to explicate it and to discuss it with your shareholders, to record it clearly in your mission but also to report on it. Fortunately, you see progress that non-financials also have more agreement on indicators and reporting on them. These are all aspects of which it is important that they are further developed, but this cannot be done through the Civil Code. That was the reason for me to table another amendment. In this case, where we are also asking for a refund on aid to corona, for example to waive bonuses, I think it is right that, as a board of directors that should decide, in consultation with the supervisory board, to call on those 250 days' reflection period, we should look at the fact that a kind of risk premium is always inherently embedded in the remuneration packages, because you can suddenly be put aside as a CEO. That's taken into account in your reward package. But if that is not possible because this law is invoked, I think it is quite reasonable and proportionate that no bonus should be paid in that situation during that period. This can always be repaired at the end of the day if there is reason to do so, but this has to be discussed with each other in the context of the regular remuneration policy. I do think it is legitimate to ask for something in return, so that a deliberate appeal is made to that period. That is why I have tabled a second amendment. I see that Mrs Van den Berg has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u6	I do have a question about that. Mr Van der Lee stated in his explanatory statement that there should be no reward for calling for reflection. But you can also say the opposite: now, apparently, there is a penalty for drivers to invoke that period of reflection. Is that in the company's interest? Plus, of course, a bonus is a variable reward, which depends on the results. If the results aren't right, they won't get that bonus anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u7	I don't think there's a punishment. But as a driver, if you invoke the law, you get more certainty than you had. And because you have uncertainty, you've been given a certain reward. By appealing to this law you get security for those 250 days, because you cannot be sent away. That's just not allowed at that time. I therefore think that this has a consequence for the remuneration over that period. At the end of that period, the following year can always be taken into account, if one has made good progress and is satisfied. But I do believe that the consideration of calling in those 250 days should be a good consideration. I do not think that anything is wrong, because as a government we give extra help and protection. Then there can be a degree of reciprocity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u8	I call extra protection. Some other countries have automatic protection, such as France, Italy and Germany. You still have a lot of big family businesses there. So there are many more automatic constructions. I don't see it anyway, because a driver at this level often has a contract for a certain period of time. He just knows he has to see whether or not they want him anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u9	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u10	I don't quite see it. Again, you want to make sure that the driver during the period he has been appointed sometimes this is extended every time only for a year with his full attention and all his energy going to control the company, and not with a penalty discount.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u11	I don't think it's right for you to call this a penalty discount. I was a driver myself. That was for a period of four years. But that means that that's taken into account in your pay structure. This is even more true for CEOs of listed companies, because they are at risk at any shareholder meeting. But if that risk disappears because we offer a legal option in which you cannot be dismissed for 250 days, it is not surprising that this has a consequence for the remuneration structure during that period. This can also be done legally. If there is a legal basis on which a certain remuneration does not have to be given, then it does not need to be given. It doesn't conflict with labour law obligations you have. I think this is something you can arrange in this law. It also forces drivers to think carefully about whether they are invoking this period of reflection. You can ask the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u12	I want to understand the amendment very well. I find it difficult, to be honest. Mr Van der Lee says that it is not intended as a sanction, as a punishment. I totally understand that. He says we can ask for something back. That driver can see that as a sanction. It is an obstacle to recourse to the possibility to save the company from, for example, a hostile takeover or to protect the company from it. My question to Mr Van der Lee is whether he understands that such a driver can at that time be placed in the position of a trade-off between personal surrenders and the company's interests. Now, of course, in his role, he is obliged to put the continuity of the company first, but does this at such a time provide sufficient guarantees for every driver to arrive at a proper balance? I find that difficult. There will be directors who are willing to hand in something personally to protect their company from a hostile takeover. But there will also be drivers who do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u13	It could be. But just showing your willingness to turn yourself in to protect your company makes that step even more powerful. It is not an individual choice of the driver. It is the choice of the board of directors, in consultation with... The Supervisory Board should even agree. So collective management sends out the signal: we call on these 250 days and we accept that this has a consequence for our own reward. By doing so, they are even more powerful: we are fighting for this enterprise, for what we stand for, and we want to prevent this hostile bid, so to speak, at all costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u14	Sure. So if Mr Van der Lee's amendment is successful and a driver chooses it in such a situation, then such a driver deserves all the more praise. I couldn't agree more. At the same time, this can also mean, in practice, that drivers who do not deserve that much praise will not do it. Does Mr Van der Lee also see the risk that many drivers may not do so, which makes the law less effective as protection against that kind of predatory capitalists, which we both want to stop? If Mr Van der Lee were to stop at 'we want to stop bonuses, point', I would be more inclined to say yes. Except that seems like an incentive in the wrong place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u15	With regard to the latter, I don't think you should avoid bonuses at any price, but I'm making a different consideration. Everything is at risk. This law, I think, has the most power in its proactive action. I think that this strength will only increase if you, as a board at some point, are even prepared to give the signal: I personally want to pay a price for that too. I must say that I also partly base that on my own experience. I didn't work in a listed company, but I did work in a big organization that got into financial heavy water. If you are then willing to fight for your company, ask for a sacrifice from your employees, but are also willing to make a sacrifice as a management, then connect the forces internally and then send a very strong message to the outside world. I believe that this law is important in this respect. In particular, you will report to hostile purchasers, but also to all other shareholders and stakeholders: I am fighting for this company. That is why I have to consider this because everything has a different bearing on risks than Mr Alkaya might have on risks. But maybe I've convinced him now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u16	I'd also like to ask you about this. We are having a nice substantive debate on this amendment. I am most afraid of such takeovers that directors, sometimes Commissioners, but above all directors, have a financial interest in this takeover. Stock prices then go up and option packages are worth more. Even if it's bad for the company, they're gonna run off with a bag of money. I wonder how this amendment would work on this mechanism, along with many other mechanisms, such as reputation. Mr Van der Lee has a point there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u17	I understand the question, but if it were in a case that the overall management would have a huge advantage financially in a particular merger, then the question is: is this a hostile merger or a hostile takeover? I don't think I'd just go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u18	There are quite a lot of examples where shareholders get a big prize and are in favour of it, even the most activist. The financial importance can therefore be very great, while the board says, in the interests of the continuity of the company, the employees and otherwise: we do not want it. So I think it's a pretty common variant, where drivers sometimes get a retention bonus, or a bag of money that makes you miserable, just to get them on board.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u19	Now you also mention the shareholders. If every interested stakeholder believes that this merger offers benefits, then it is not a hostile takeover. I do not see the risk that Mr Nijboer describes on this point. Again, I think that this bill will only be used when there is great disgust within the management collective against the imminent takeover. That signal is only more powerful if you immediately show that you also want to make a small relative sacrifice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u20	Mr. Van der Lee, you can continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u21	I was actually almost at the end of my speech. I have explained my amendments. I found the amendments tabled by Mrs van den Berg sensible tightening up. I am therefore curious to hear the Minister's opinion on this. If I'm honest, I also hope that the law never needs to be used in practice. We do not then see the confrontation with hostile takeovers that we still fear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u22	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr Alkaya of the SP. If the chair is cleaned, he can take the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u23	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I do a sigh for historiography. I think it's an extremely important law. If we then have to deal with this after so long waiting for a Thursday evening by 10 p.m., I think we, as co-legislator, have to scratch behind our ears. I wish I had more time for this. I mean, we have all the time in the world now, but at some point the eyes are getting smaller. As far as I am concerned, this law deserved more attention. I also have a somewhat ideological explanation of how important this law is to me. The Dutch economy is heavily dependent on abroad. That's what we say a lot. We hear that a lot. And that's right. This is the result of conscious choices by many successive cabinets. For example, many trade and investment treaties have been concluded by Cabinets, wages in the Netherlands have been deliberately kept low at some point and the Netherlands has always been at the forefront of the creation of the internal market within the EU. This conscious course of action for our economy has had advantages, but above all many disadvantages. We could hear that this week in the HJ Schoo lecture by the President of De Nederlandsche Bank. He said that many of the benefits of international free trade agreements and investment treaties have mainly come from companies and people with capital and the disadvantages especially from ordinary workers who have to go to work every day for their income, but have seen income rise barely, largely insufficient in recent years. As a SP, we have consistently opposed this economic stance, which focuses heavily on exports and foreign investment. We have also had a lot of debates about this in this House, in Parliament. For a long time, we held these debates at a time when at least this course of our economy was still somewhat based on reality, a reality in which Dutch companies, by opening themselves up to foreign competition, could be taken over and were at risk of increased competition and therefore, for example, had to moderate their wages and the like, but in which they also had access to other countries and other markets. That was on the other side. This utopia of a so-called free international market has never been 100%, but in 2020 all the illusions about it really disappear, even with the government. That is a good development. Reality awareness. After all, the reality is now a world in which the American president can tell a company that it must either be sold to the Americans or be banned soon. The reality is a world in which, in my opinion, countries are right to pursue industrial policy and are looking worldwide for strategic knowledge and skills that will benefit their citizens in the coming years. The reality is also a world in which wealthy investment funds, predatory capitalists, global healthy companies buy up, not to make them thrive in the long term, but to squeeze them out and sell everything that's worth for quick profit. Geopolitics and economics are therefore intertwined in today's world. That is why the chosen foreign-oriented course is less and less suited to our country and our economy. We are going to be the crazy one in the world if we continue to expose our companies and our workers to the neoliberal illusion of an international free market, which has become more of a cockfight between all kinds of commercial and geopolitical interests in practice. That is why there is no doubt that there must be more counterpower for shareholders within our companies. That is why we must move away from the self-evident fact that those who pay can also determine everything within companies and within our economy. That is why we welcome in principle the legislative proposal we are discussing today. It is good that drivers are given an additional means to resist a hostile takeover attempt, in the form of a period of reflection of 250 days. At that time, drivers can map the impact of the bid on all stakeholders, talk to all stakeholders, especially with the employees, and possibly also develop alternatives: set an alternative course for the company. The government indicates that the existing opportunities offered by stock exchange companies are inadequate in creating sufficient time and rest, which are necessary for the administration to exercise its responsibility in such a situation. The SP Group recognises this and therefore welcomes this new opportunity. HEMA, Vroom & Dreesmann, KPN, AkzoNobel, Unilever and PostNL are only the most well-known examples of Dutch companies that have fallen prey or threatened to fall into hostile takeovers. Many thousands of people earn their living at these kinds of companies, and in hostile takeovers they are often the biggest victims. They have to deal with reorganisations, they have to deal with wage sacrifices or even lose their jobs and income. Day in, day out they go to work and together with their colleagues make sure that the Netherlands stays running, but at decisive moments their voices are underexposed. Their importance is underexposed in our companies and underexposed in our economy, and that needs to change. Strengthening the position of directors vis-à-vis panty-hose shareholders is therefore not enough. Employees, represented by the works council, should also be able to take a stronger position at such decisive moments for their company and their future. That is why we have tabled two amendments to give the works council a position in the present law in addition to the board. We also give the works council the opportunity to call in the reflection period. But just like when the board does, the supervisory board must also agree to that. In the current legislative proposal, only the board can end the reflection period prematurely, for example if they have had enough conversations for their feelings, have considered enough alternatives and have nevertheless become convinced of, for example, a vision of the future. Our amendment lays down that not only the supervisory board should agree to the premature end of that reflection period, but also the works council. The Or should also be convinced that their company and their future are going to be okay. Boards and employees often close the queues for hostile takeovers. Fortunately, we see this, but it is not self-evident that drivers and the interests of employees are in line, that drivers also take the best possible account of the interests of employees. The emancipated employees of today are perfectly capable of doing so themselves. They are perfectly capable of defending their own interests and they are perfectly capable of considering and defending the importance of their company. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister whether he is prepared to do justice to the emancipation of workers in this law by means of our two amendments. Dutch stock exchange companies have a so-called Rhineland-Palatinate business model, as it has just been mentioned, in which long-term value creation is central and all stakeholders are taken into account. Exactly a year ago, even 200 CEOs from the United States indicated that they consider this system to be better than the one they were primarily aimed at, namely a system aimed at shareholder value and not just at short-term profits for shareholders. The upgrading of staff participation to a genuine right of assent under the present law would fit perfectly in our Rhine tradition and also in the current tense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Alkaya. I call Mr Paternotte, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. It was 2017. Kraft Heinz climbed the balls at Unilever; PPG banged on the doors of Akzo from Mexico and previously América Móvil sailed like a Viking dinghy to what once was the Royal PTT. The barbarians came no further than the gate, but several established names on the AEX had a near-take-over experience. Mr. Chairman. D66 stands for progressive capitalism. Most shareholders have just as much interest in long-term value creation as companies themselves, and the purpose of a law like this should therefore not, as far as we are concerned, be to curb or dismiss shareholders as locusts. Because acquisitions can be good, through consolidation that combines knowledge, streamlines production and thus provides a better, cheaper product for the consumer. Imagine if takeovers were impossible. It can make established companies sleepy. Successful companies also need to renew, because as the world changes, the market also changes. For example, towards sustainability. A company that continues to adhere to a fossil earning model depends on a dying market, with all its risks. Shareholders often force change. I am thinking of Follow This, Shell's green shareholders, who, together with institutional investors, forced climate ambitions at Shell. But, Mr President, there is another side. Acquisitions can also create uncertainty, about maintaining jobs, about controlling vital infrastructure, but also about the possibility of restricting free competition. Sometimes this serves only the short-term interest of certain shareholders, which prevails above that of longer-term value creation. This can happen with activist parties who think they can achieve fast profits by cutting up or repairing, without an eye for the future. Isn't the Netherlands, as an open economy, too easy to prey on a continent where each country still has its own unique economic structure? And where in other European countries it is often not so easy to take over a company, by loyalty shares, by family ownership or simply by political pressure? That is why we believe it is right for the cabinet to recognise that the corona crisis also increases the chances of activist shareholders being interested. After all, recession often means consolidation. The reflection period, the cooldown period of 250 days, a product of the debate we had in 2017, may come in handy. But for most stock exchange companies it will not be necessary at all, because in a new stock exchange a company often takes up a foundation's preferred shares in the construct, as KPN also wagered against América Móvil. A recent example is CureVac, the German vaccine producer on course to produce an important corona vaccine. Donald Trump offered the company a billion dollars to go to America. And now that they're going to the stock market, they're trying to prevent the vulnerability to an opportunistic hostile takeover. This could not be done in Germany, but in the Netherlands, and so CureVac has now formally become a Dutch company with a foundation preferred shares and the reflection period in the statutes. Rather the same was true for Ferrari and Campari, a few beautiful Italian companies that have also come here, but with the construction of loyalty shares. In other words, my group is looking for a new balance here, because it is very good that CureVac can continue the work on a corona vaccine unhindered by this construction, but at the same time it cannot be the intention to build up protection structures. The reflection period comes primarily because some companies have never been able to include a protection foundation at all, or any other structure, and specifically those companies are therefore vulnerable. But the Netherlands must retain its character as an open economy. That is why the question: does the cabinet see the risk that a stacking could make the Netherlands a kind of protection paradise in Europe, in which companies choose the Netherlands because they can incorporate in statutes a mix of protection structures that make a takeover virtually unthinkable? The amendment tabled by the VVD is also in favour of this, and we will support it. In the end, we are dealing with a single internal market, and like shopping with tax rates, labour law or environmental frameworks ultimately means that most countries are worse off, as far as we are concerned. With more new companies going public in many European countries in recent years, we see the point of avoiding a race to the bottom. So my question is this: does the Minister want to prevent the Netherlands from becoming a protection paradise? Does he think it is right or not if there are more similar rules for this in the internal market? And is he also prepared to open the discussion on European business protection frameworks, even outside the vital sectors?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u26	A question from Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u27	As far as I am concerned, Mr Paternotte started his speech very nuanced. Of course, we also have pension funds. They're long-term investors. So there aren't just bad shareholders. That's what I expect from D66. Then there will be such a term "protection paradis" at once: that should not become the Netherlands. No, of course no one wants that, because that's a very appealing title for something bad. While my aftertaste is that it has taken a very long time, previous speakers have also said so before this law, which offers only a very limited protection, because it is only reflection time,... There were five, six, seven other options in the initial letter from Minister Kamp. They're all stranded. So I would say: is it enough, if you see what threats in the world there are for our Rhineland model?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u28	I think that in 2017 we found that there were quite a lot of companies in the Netherlands that had in themselves been well protected, perhaps because their property was mainly in the hands of the family.I think of Heineken and others just had a foundation preferential shares that had already proven to be able to resist, for example, a Mexican takeover party, but that there are stock exchange companies that do not have that at all. They're not well protected. This gives you inequality within the Netherlands. This period of reflection, as an ultimatum medium which would in any case apply to all stock exchange companies, would be an option. But, yes, you and I have been on an interrogation committee together, also known as the "Nijboer's Approval Corps." The term "paradise" often fell there. I see now that a lot of companies establish a registered office in the Netherlands, not for tax reasons, but because of a protection structure. Then I think: you and I should ask ourselves if that is not what is crazy. Then we have to ask ourselves: what are they doing here and should we want to do so in Europe? And that's why I'm asking those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u29	I very much agree with Mr Paternotte that we should not want all kinds of companies to settle here because of our legal structures. But I do raise the question as to whether 250 days of reflection is a reason for many companies to settle here. The trust sector is huge, but it is not due to the time of reflection. This is due, among other things, to our tax rules, through our treaty network and for all kinds of other reasons that we have investigated; also called dark reasons. But that's not because of time to think. The types that use these reflection periods are just not the types that we don't want here, I would say. So I have not yet understood what a dark cloud Mr Paternotte would see if this law were passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u30	Dark clouds? Let's not make this all too hard tonight. If you have heard that I have the impression that unlisted trust offices are settling here because of protection on the stock exchange, then you have not fully understood me either. I mentioned a number of concrete examples, such as those Italian companies. They all evoke beautiful images: Fiat, Campari, and especially Ferrari, of course. But also such a German vaccine producer deliberately chooses and says: we have to sit in the Netherlands, because then it can't happen that Donald Trump or an American company with 1 billion euros quickly arranges that acquisition, because the Netherlands has these protection structures. Do those 250 days of reflection make the difference? I don't think so. What I do see is that such a company in the statutes and the foundation prefers shares, and puts down that period of reflection, and that both can't be done in Germany. Mrs van den Berg rightly mentioned the fact that in Germany this is not generally such a problem either because a much smaller part of the economy is listed there. But it does indicate that you work in an internal market with all different constructs, and that can also have these kinds of effects. Companies are going to see where they can put that seat. They don't do that from the point of view: where am I, where are my employees and where are we from? But they do that because of a certain construction. The Netherlands has had this in the past for fiscal reasons. Now we could talk about it for this reason, albeit for a small part, because I do not see it as a very big problem. I'll ask the Minister if he recognizes that. And I hope we can all see that this is not something that the Netherlands needs to be known for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u31	I also belonged to the Nijboer electoral corps.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u32	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u33	For the viewers and the other participants in the debate, I say that this was about the tax haven of the Netherlands, an objective fact. I must admit that this cabinet is working to reduce that step by step, not quickly enough, but still somewhat. But I think it is rather far-fetched to speak of a 'protection paradise', whereas in his own speech Mr Paternotte also emphasized that other Member States have often built protection structures much more directly from political intervention. But my question is actually the following. I'm getting a little ideologically confused. The law aims to offer an option to companies. On the other hand, the liberal parties want to force companies to choose between existing protection options and this option instead of allowing companies to make those choices themselves. If they choose stacking, there will be consequences. This means that shareholders may be inclined to give less capital to that company for its growth ambitions. Companies know that very well, so they're not just gonna pile up. So from your own ideological beliefs, I don't understand why you want to force companies to choose between protection structures so rigidly from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u34	Then you have to go back to the question of why we have made the choice at all to introduce that period of reflection. You say that if those shareholders do not like the use of multiple protection structures, they may as well leave. But you and I also know that there are a lot of parties, such as pension funds, insurers, who have to go somewhere with their capital. They want to spread that risk and invest in a lot of big Dutch companies. I think you should be able to protect them in their rights, too. After all, what we ultimately want here is to prevent those parties that are very quick to build a share capital from quickly launching a takeover that has a very negative impact on long-term value creation and thus on our economy, and on matters such as jobs, sustainability and other interests that we have high. But what we do not want is to say: we are going to shift the relationship between the interests of shareholders on the one hand and the interests of companies on the other. That would happen if you said: it's fine if you start stacking protection structures. This law has come about because there are companies that have no protection at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u35	There's no one telling you to start stacking. You assume that companies will use this law to stack. You are so afraid that you have tabled an amendment to that effect, so that companies cannot do so. Because they have to choose between those 250 days or other forms of protection structures that are already possible. That's what you want. That's not very liberal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u36	That's not correct. One. I have not tabled an amendment at all. Two. I'm not saying that companies are going to do that, I'm saying that if you're dealing with a law here, you have to think through what the consequences of that law might be and that you can say something about it through the legal text and the statements. That also helps the judge if at some point he has to look at the reasonableness of a possible accumulation, should it occur at some point. And I think that's what you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u37	In fact, Mr Paternotte is afraid of abuse. That's how I get it. Doesn't it make sense to wait for the evaluation and then perhaps vote for such a limitation, rather than admitting the aid now because of fear of something that might not happen at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u38	You call it abuse, but when I look at the current legal text, I don't really see that stacking would be abuse. I just see that it could be done in principle. Am I afraid of abuse? I think it would be a good idea for us here to see that we very much want those 250 days, because we want all stock exchange companies in the Netherlands to be able to use that form of protection, that they can choose to do so. But it is not intended to lead to a accumulation, because that creates new inequality between stock exchange companies in the Netherlands, to mention an additional argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u39	"Missing" indeed also gives a value judgment. What I mean is this. Companies will apply that accumulation when they really want to avoid a situation, i.e. a hostile takeover or something. Otherwise, they may not need that stacking and will be able to get out of their way with one of the possibilities and will not use it at all. If this accumulation takes place to prevent hostile takeovers, I cannot imagine that Mr Paternotte has a problem with that. [[Sentence could not be parsed: De heer Paternotte heeft er volgens mij problemen mee als bestuurders de mogelijkheden gaan stapelen om ook zaken te voorkomen die economisch wellicht toegevoegde waarde zouden kunnen hebben; overnames en dergelijke.]] I think that is exactly what we could get out of such an evaluation. Wouldn't it make much more sense to wait for them, instead of already making it impossible to do so because of a theoretical risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u40	I don't think so. I think it's best to clarify the law before the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u41	I would ask Mr Paternotte to continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u42	Mr. Chairman. I have just asked the Minister about European opportunities. Of course, I look forward to the answers. I would just like to explain two more amendments: one that we tabled ourselves and one that we tabled with the CDA. First of all, the special course of justice to the Entrepreneurship Room Amsterdam. In the bill it is open from a holding of 3% of the shares. Here is a member of the legal right to order. That would make sense, because dismissal of a director or a commissioner could be a way of setting up a shareholder. Then a reflection period is invoked and then the same shareholder can challenge the reflection period at the Enterprise Chamber; so far so good. But many large listed companies have a statutory right to bid that is lower than that 3%, for example 1% or a value of 50 million. The effect of the law would therefore be that shareholders could, by 1%, dismiss the ava, but could not go to the Enterprise Chamber. To sketch an image of what might prevent the following. Many companies have a statutory bid right of 1% or 50 million of the stock market value, including Aegon, Ahold, ASML, Philips, Unilever, AkzoNobel and Wolters Kluwer. I take ASML as an example. 1% of ASML is worth 13 billion euros. None of the institutional investors, our pension funds and insurers, have 1%, let alone 3%. However, pension fund ABP had a share package worth 408 million in ASML on 31 March of this year. Care and welfare had about 60 million. This indicates that pension funds and insurers certainly have an interest in lowering the threshold to be able to move to the Business Chamber. After all, we do not want this process of justice to be open only to large investors, who in a short time can push up their share capital to a high level, the BlackRocks of this world. I have therefore tabled an amendment to correct this: shareholders who can arrange should also be able to go to the Enterprise Chamber. I'm curious about the Minister's opinion. Then two, Mr. Chairman. Mrs van den Berg has just explained the amendment that we are tabling together with the CDA in order to align the start of the reflection period with the formal arrangement of the resignation request on the ava. That makes sense for us, since before the start of the reflection period on a public bid we now also use the formal offer and therefore not a previously written note in which the intention is to make an offer. After all, that is non-binding and it does not even need to be public. The same should apply, as far as we are concerned, to the reflection period, which can start with the formal arrangement. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to thank the wonderful people of JenV and EZK for their hard work over the last three years on this law. I will advise my group to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u43	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. Then we can now listen to Mr Van Gent of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u44	Thank you, Mr President. The Dutch open economy benefits from an attractive investment and location environment. To some extent, the government has the task of regulating the free market. It is also a good thing that we are talking tonight about the legal possibilities of the boards of companies. Mr. Chairman. For a politician, the biggest challenge is the balancing of different interests in society. And when you talk about listed companies, you talk, in random order, about the interests of employees, the interests of employers, the interests of employment and, of course, the interests of owners/shareholders. All this in the context of the Dutch economy and the investment and location climate mentioned above. The boards of stock exchange companies must make similar balancing of interests. This law provides for their support. The law allows for more time and rest to be given to government to study these complex administrative issues. The VVD thinks it is a good idea to introduce a reflection period of up to 250 days, because no one can oppose careful reflection. In fact, even though reading in the bill gave me a feeling of slight jealousy. You would wish that sometimes we in the Chamber would have a little more time and rest to reflect on the complex social issues we need to deal with. Nevertheless, we would like to amend the present law on one point. The period of reflection can be invoked in the context of a fundamental strategy weighting. An enemy takeover bid has already been mentioned, but also the resignation proposal of directors. However, a build-up of these protective measures must be avoided. This was also argued by the Council of State, for example, in response to the law. The Council has written that this may be at odds with European law requirements of proportionality and necessity. That is why I have tabled an amendment which should, in fact, make it clearer to the court how to deal with the accumulation of protection structures if the shareholder objects, and which should also give clear guidance to this effect. Now I also put on the hat of my spokespersonship on state law. The Council of State has also recently strongly advocated in the annual report that Parliament should take its role as co-legislator seriously, thus setting less open standards and setting clear limits in legislation. This can prevent judges from being forced to give their own interpretation or interpretation of laws. It can also prevent too many legal procedures from being carried out. Hence this amendment, which should give the judge more opportunities for tailor-made work. I therefore sincerely hope that my amendment can contribute to a better law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u45	Thank you, Mr. Van Gent. I see there's another question coming from Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u46	I can imagine something in itself in the state-law perspective, but still a question, focused on your ideological beliefs. There are different forms of protection structures possible, but I do not understand that according to the VVD it is necessary to define this specific form in such a way that it can only be used if you do not use all other forms. I think that is the consequence of your amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u47	The consequence of the amendment is indeed that we want to avoid this accumulation. As I have said before, the Council of State has also made this clear when looking at European legislation, for example on the free movement of goods. So you have to build up a limitation, because otherwise you will indeed get a stacking and then that balance is again distorted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u48	The whole background that we have this law was that we found that there was a threat and that existing protection structures were not sufficient to avert that threat. Now there is a discussion that the purpose of this law would be to stack, but that is not at all the purpose of this law. You are now forcing companies to choose black and white, with all the risks involved. I think it would be wiser for those options to remain open and for the judge to consider whether there is any accumulation at all, because there are all kinds of different forms of............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Then you now legally prescribe that it is a black and white choice: or 250 days or something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u49	I believe that the purpose of this law is to introduce a period of reflection in the case of takeovers. That's one of the options. It has indeed been said: in very important strategic decisions. That could also be the dismissal of drivers. That's a lot wider. As Mr Paternotte pointed out, there are also companies without protection structures and they could be used for this purpose. But the balance is also disturbed when you get a stack of security structures. At the moment when a shareholder goes to court and says that it is unreasonable, we want to clarify to the judge so that he can properly assess what is applicable and what is not, on the basis of a clear law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u50	A brief clarifying question, also in relation to what Mr. Van der Lee just brought forward. There may be situations where you say that there is stacking and stacking and stacking, that everything is put together, which was not the intention of a protection structure. Mr. Van Gent says he wants the judge to be able to make a proper assessment. I can imagine, but would Mr Van Gent say in advance that any combination is prohibited in advance? I have understood the amendment in such a way that a shareholder can go to court and say that two or three things are put together, that he thinks it is really too much; judge, please judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u51	That is exactly what our amendment is about. There is now the term "unreasonable" in it, but without giving really clear handles to the judge when it comes to stacking protection structures. That is why we want to include this explicitly in the law. Of course, it's always up to the judge to make that assessment and give it customized. But the moment you leave that too open, you can have a discussion about it. Then you also have the risk that shareholders say: I'll go to court faster, because maybe that slightly different interpretation will make it easier for me to get my way there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u52	This means that if a shareholder does not go to court, two protective structures can easily be used. At the time when the shareholder does go to court, it is quite clear to the judge that I really want to have understood as well as to have given all the circumstances, because there is a huge variety of protection structures and circumstances of the case, to wrap and weigh and to give an opinion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u53	The judge remains in position, but is therefore required to review on the basis of this law. This amendment allows better scrutiny, because it simply clearly defines what is covered by a possible stacking. But everything now has to do with the fact that the shareholder will indeed have to go to court first, and the judge will then be the judge who makes that judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u54	Thank you, Mr. Van Gent. We can now move on to the last speaker in this round, and that is Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I read this law, I had to remind myself of its creation and of the time of that time. Akzo threatened to be taken over. Burgmans was in favour of this as chairman of the Supervisory Board. There were rumors about Ahold: would they make it? I think it was about Kraft Heinz and Unilever a little later. Really, the entire government summit of the Netherlands came to politics and said: save us, help us. They came to see us. I had a very exceptional moment, because Minister Kamp prevented early. And he wasn't so obstinate, certainly not in the Chamber, because he thought a minister should run. But he was a missionary and there was still an important protection law to the Chamber. I just grabbed the letter. He's from May 2017. It was in the middle of the formation process. Everything was controversially explained. So we weren't supposed to decide anything, but we had to and would protect our companies. The Chamber agreed with that, as did the VVD Minister. We are here three and a half years later, and it is surprising that the law is only now before us. Mr Van der Lee already started it. I was excited about that letter at the time, because there were a lot of options in it. That really wasn't just the reflection period, you know. There was a minimum percentage of perseverance. There were other minimum requirements. There was a minimum period of thought to make an offer. That was just inside this cluster. Furthermore, the vital sectors in the Dutch economy had to be appointed. That has also been partly done. A law has been made for the telecoms sector, but there are still a lot of sectors that are still being looked at in the analyses. While I would say: the energy sector and ICT, security and defence. I mean, it's not that hard to think of all that. But there's still a lot of work to be done on that. Action would be taken at European level. Something has happened, but Mr Paternotte also asked for more action in this area, and I support that. And the Dutch pension funds, investors and insurers would also be called up, like: stand in front of your business. I am very excited about this law, but I do think that this law alone is not enough to protect our Rhineland model. I ask the Minister why the cabinet at the time saw the urgency of this whole palette in the outgoing state, he did not say 'we are going to introduce everything', but he said 'you must do something in all these areas'; that was also the consensus among the Dutch directors and why it is no longer necessary to guard against this. Because this is very momentous. That's when we were all working on this. It was in the papers, too. Mr Alkaya: indeed a Thursday evening. This is often the fate of us Members of Parliament, but it is good that we are allowed to do the legislation. But yes, at another time it's about bonuses again and an ING top man threatens "we're going to Belgium." Next, it's about dividend taxation and big companies say we'll leave again. Then that's what the discussion is about. But the fundamental forces in the economy continue. It remains a question: what do we ultimately stand for in our Dutch economy? Do we choose the Rhineland model? This is part of this, to strengthen the Rhineland model, in which all stakeholders, all interests, employees and, of course, employers, but also society, have a place. Or are we going to the Anglo-Saxon model? We have seen in recent years that the Anglo-Saxon model is getting more and more grounded. And that's not something from the past three or five years. That's been going on for a long time. That's a bad development. We saw it ourselves with our ABN: 3%, the Children's Investment fund. We remember: all blown up, bought up, all split up and nationalized. And a majority is still in the hands of the state. So it can have very bad results if you just listen to it. My fear is that the concern about the pressure of shareholder interests, about short-term gain, even after this law, will be supported; that the Minister is already testing between the rules by............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ My question is: is it no longer necessary? You can do it with a lot of things. Minister Kamp outlined it at the time. For example, it can also be done by making loyalty shares more ordinary. It may be prohibited by prohibiting quarterly reports. It can be done by giving employees more influence, even in this process. The SP has tabled amendments to this effect. It is also possible, and I would like to make this point here, to limit the financial interests of directors in this type of process. It is mainly about directors, because Commissioners are of course often less financially interested in Dutch boards. It is my firm belief that there have often been takeovers where it was so attractive for the summit, which already had shares or bonus packages, that they have gone from hostile to willing. After all, a decent premium is always paid. The shirt was still closer than the skirt. I know that there are some legal provisions to limit that during such a process, but I really wonder if that is enough. Shouldn't that be happening anymore? Because Bennink, at Nutricia, 80 million. That's a lot, isn't it? Rijkman Groenink, who does not want it to be said: 26 million. Keep in that pressure, with shareholders calling you to account, once more straighten your back. I don't think it's a coincidence that it was Burgmans who kept his back straight at Akzo's. I will not use too many subtleties, but I have had proper debates on the role of shareholders in our society at a different level. Burgmans didn't have that many interests anymore. He just went against it. So I guess that's not a coincidence. I would ask the Minister to consider this and to take a closer look at it: should there not be any more financial incentives for directors and stakeholders? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u56	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. Then we came to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting until 10:40 p.m., and then we're gonna listen to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u57	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u58	Mr. Chairman. Mr Alkaya sighed at the beginning of his speech: it is a very important law; should we not have talked about it at a somewhat more favourable time of the day, perhaps with a more full gallery and a little more speaking time? I think he's right about that. At the same time, I am very happy that we can talk about this in the late hours. It's a time when crazy things are happening in the world, and it's turbulent; we're seeing what blows our economy get, and we're talking about a bill today that we might all feel like we might need it in the future. I would therefore like to thank the Chamber for having wanted to put this on the urgent list and for having entered it quickly, despite the huge list of legislative proposals on the table. Thank you very much for that. Much has been said about the Dutch tradition and the Rhineland model. I fully agree with that. We are a country in which we are not only aware of the interests of shareholders, but also of the interests of other stakeholders. It is always important to consider not only how much profit you can make with your investment, but also the sustainable value that companies can represent and the long-term value creations. We have seen in the past that this may come under pressure if short-term shareholders are after the loot, if there is a threat of hostile takeovers or very radical change in the company's strategy, and if there is no follow-up to this threat to the dismissal of the board or the supervisory board at the general shareholders' meeting. That is exactly where this bill is aimed at: introducing a legal period of reflection that can give rest and space at such a time. This time can be used to explore different options, to consult with the various stakeholders and to carefully design the company's policy for the company. There is added value in this, because it offers the opportunity to weigh the company's long-term importance. Now that period of reflection concerns the control of shareholders, the power of shareholders to appoint, suspend and dismiss the directors, and thus also the investment they have made in a company to have some control over them. Exactly that is temporarily suspended with this bill. It is good to see whether that is in balance and whether it is surrounded by sufficient safeguards. This bill has a number of safeguards. We have tried to find a good balance between the calmness and space that companies sometimes need when faced with activist shareholders and, on the other hand, the awareness that your shareholders are depriving you of a certain control for a certain period of time. In my view, this must be balanced. Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the amendments and specific questions, I will reflect on a number of things, also because I was challenged to do so. Is this enough? How does this relate to the rest of Europe? Maybe we're not getting too attractive in a negative way? I tasted that in Mr Paternotte's words: a protection paradise as a counterpart to the tax haven, because you attract companies on improper grounds. Perhaps a question to start with: why did it take so long? That's a fair question. Pranking one could say: this comes from the conception of the spiritual father and the spiritual mother, whose spiritual mother is still here today, but perhaps the spiritual father is watching at home. And the wearing time of these laws is often a little longer than we're used to. You've all seen it's a thick book. You think a period of thought is a pretty simple thing, but it affects a lot of interests. It affects European laws and regulations. You can also see that a lot of interest groups have been involved and have also contributed. And we've weighed different options against each other. So we've really, in that respect, been careful. Mr Nijboer says: but when Camp was standing here in the heat of the moment, the house was on fire and a lot had to be done. Then the list was very long. Why is this finally left? Perhaps some reflection period has done his work there: that, when the dust is down again, you will see what is really needed. I think that this legislative proposal is a measure which is very well balanced. As far as the protection of specific economic sectors and security sectors is concerned, my colleague from EZK has also put forward a number of other laws here. We have also had a recent discussion about, for example, remuneration policies, and we have also said that this should be a little more coherent, a little more long-term and something more involving various stakeholders. So it's not like this is all we're doing in this cabinet period, but we're a little more focused than what was finally there at the end of the previous period when we were all startled by this issue. That played especially with Akzo at the time. Don't we run the risk of eventually becoming some kind of protection paradise with these laws? I'm not afraid of that. I think what we're doing here is responsible and proportionate. I would not mind at all if companies choose to settle in the Netherlands, if they say: there is a very good locational environment in which these things are simply in balance. There is a locational environment that is attractive for investors to invest their money in shares and in companies, because they also have something to say about those companies but also where the long-term perspective for the lifetime of companies and for the stability that companies need to function properly is present. There is a locational climate where it is not a kind of question of "if the cowboys enter, then the place is cut up, closed up and sold to the highest bidder," but that provides more continuity. Well, if that's a reason for companies to say "that's why I like going to the Netherlands," then I don't really mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u59	The Minister said earlier in his speech: then you have a certain attraction, not on the basis of the intrinsic appeal of your economy, your investment climate and so on, but actually on certain grounds that do not have much to do with what the Netherlands has to offer, only with certain constructions that are possible here and not elsewhere. Now seven Italian and seven German companies have all come to the Netherlands quite recently. They have a registered office here with protection structures. What difference does the Minister make? Is that something he says: well, I would actually like to see more; let all Italian and German companies come here if they want to go to the market? Or does he not ask with me: should you not have more European unity in that, where companies do not go from one country to another for that reason?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u60	You can also say that countries can distinguish themselves from them. And so the Netherlands can also be an attractive investment country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u61	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u62	This also affects Mr Paternotte's point, which says: should you not regulate this at European level? Company law is very different in Member States, with different Member States very much attached to their own systems. Think of the French model, for example. I don't see how they're gonna give that up soon. I also think that our company law has very good points and I would not say immediately: I would like to move towards the French model. For these reasons, attempts in the past to achieve greater harmonisation have not been successful. So I am not very optimistic and I do not immediately see the need for further European integration. Let there be a little difference. I also like it when international companies like to come to the Netherlands for that reason. I would like to turn to some of the major issues, including the amendments. Something about the reason for the legislative proposal, something about the coincidence, then something about the safeguards, and then the evaluation. It has been chosen to allow the reflection period in two situations: in the case of a hostile public bid and in the case of a shareholder's request for dismissal from the board and/or the Supervisory Board. If the Board calls for a reflection period in one of these cases, the right of the Ava to dismiss the Board or the CoC shall be temporarily suspended. The criterion is that in this situation there is a substantial conflict with the company's interest. Think, for example, of a hostile bid or of the situation in which the bidder wants to cut up or dismantle the company after taking over. Then, as you might say, the life of the company is at stake and there is reason to call for that reflection. In the end, it is up to the board to weigh that down and support it. Mrs Van den Berg had two very specific questions. One fits well with this. She asked what is meant by policy determination. The board is obliged to make good use of the period of reflection. The governance should engage in dialogue with the various stakeholders in order to weigh up the different options. It can be both general strategic policy and more specific policy. That depends on what the reason was to call in the period of reflection. For example, in case of a reflection period invoked in connection with a hostile takeover bid, the board could look for alternatives to those takeovers. In the event of a reflection period invoked due to a change of strategy desired by the shareholder, the board will engage with these shareholders and other stakeholders to determine whether the strategy is maintained or requires any adjustment. I come now to Mrs van den Berg's and Mr Bruins' amendments to item No. 12. This requires clarification of the fact that the reflection period has an end, time and starting time per situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u63	I have the impression that Mrs Van den Berg would like to ask a question first. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is true that the previous comment on the interpretation of policy and strategy and the question of whether the Minister can give a more detailed explanation of what is meant by it. The minister says, "I'm going to talk to stakeholders and the works council." But the article to which I refer says at the end: "Keeping restrictions according to the statute is the management of the company. In any case, this includes the definition of the company's policy and strategy." Can the Minister explain what he means by defining the company's policy and strategy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u65	This concerns, for example, establishments of holding companies or the holding structure. I really think that's a strategy issue. Then we are talking, for example, about major financing decisions. These may be investment decisions, but they may also be large-scale refinancing of certain issues. For example, it could be about the ratio of equity to debt. Those are really big policy-related and/or policy-related issues. strategic decisions, which are ultimately on the board's side. Then there is a question and an amendment by Mrs van den Berg and Mr Bruins. That is the amendment to item No. 12. This amendment seeks to clarify that the reflection period can be invoked per situation, namely for a public bid or for a resignation request and that a period of 250 days is available each time as a reflection period. I agree with Mrs van den Berg that this coincidence may occur. For example, you can think of the case that a hostile bid is made and that the reflection period is not invoked, because the board is certain of its business. But after that, a shareholder moves. The latter shall submit a request for resignation from the Board. The board then calls for a reflection period on this ground. In this case, a period of 250 days shall apply. It runs from the moment the request for dismissal is made. That is, after all, the basis on which the board invokes the period of reflection. This is indeed how the bill is intended. The amendment tabled by Mrs van den Berg and Mr Bruins clarifies this once again. I have no objection to it and can leave it to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. What I think is a slightly more complicated amendment is the amendment tabled by Mrs van den Berg and Mr Paternotte. This is the amendment to item No. 11. This amendment concerns the relocation of the starting point of the reflection period. In her amendment, Mrs van den Berg proposes to adjust the starting point of the reflection period, so that the time limit will run from the time of the convening of the sitting. So that is, in a manner of speaking, the moment when the board sends the agenda. That's 42 days before the general shareholders' meeting at the latest. It intends to take this into account any strategic behaviour of shareholders, by requiring shareholders to apply to the company extra early for the ava. Let me give you the following example. There was an ava in April. In May, a shareholder requests the resignation of the board. In response to this, the board called for the reflection period in May. At least that is what this bill is for. That period of reflection actually runs until January. If the annual ava was then held in April, that reflection period will be over. If the request for resignation is still there, it must be put to the vote and put to the vote. The question is whether this is really problematic, because between May and next April there are eleven months. With that there is de facto already a lot of peace and space. In fact, this is the peace and quiet that this bill is intended to create. So I don't immediately see why we should deviate from that. The second is that this bill is in line with the way it has already been dealt with. There is no legal reflection period, but the Corporate Governance Code does contain a response time of 180 days. That deadline also applies at the time of the request for payment and not at the time when the agenda leaves the door. In my view, there are good, substantive arguments for keeping to the proposal that is in line with the way it is regulated by the law. I can see that this has also been used to prevent certain strategic behavior. Although, we don't see that strategic behavior with that response time either, so I guess that's not so bad. I also want to tell you what could be the opposite. If the legal reflection period does not run until the time of sending out the meeting, strategic behaviour may also arise among shareholders to submit the request to add an agenda item as late as possible. In other words, that's as short as possible for the ava. This can be done up to 60 days before the ava. Eighteen days later, the agenda must be sent and the agenda will be formally adopted. Then you get these kinds of requests, for example about the dismissal of the board, filed two months before the ava. This also gives you a huge dynamic and hectic. Thus, the company may also invoke the period of reflection, shareholders may go to the Business Chamber and the court may finally say: there are insufficient grounds to invoke the period of reflection. Sometimes you only have a few days until the shareholders' meeting. In other words, if you are looking for peace and space, if you adopt this amendment, the exact opposite can arise. There's my fear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u66	We would like to take that risk. I would like to put two other arguments to that effect. When a shareholder sends a letter, that is not yet public. That's the big difference with when there's a hostile takeover. When is the reflection period going to run, when it's a public bid? So anyone can know. Moreover, the Minister says: it may be that they are sent to do something just in front of that ava. It's possible that shareholders will go to court. However, I see no reason why, if the board invokes that period of reflection, purely because of the threat of dismissal, the judge would immediately say that he does not approve of what is happening. A shareholder can, of course, always go to court and invoke the period of reflection, but I do not see that as dependent on time. The essence is that on the one hand it is not public and the hostile takeover is clearly waiting for it to be really public. The second argument is, to continue with the minister's example: it is April and in May the note is sent, but the board does not know what the rest of the shareholders et cetera thinks. The board can then only be forced to hold an extra ava, while you normally need 10% of the shareholders to organize a special ava, in order to pick up some. We have just heard that 90% of the shares we have in the Netherlands are held abroad. It is therefore not the case that a Dutch director has a fairly easy understanding of who his shareholders are and what they can find of something. One is dangling a thread for nine months and one can't do anything at all and so waiting for that shareholder can get his way, while the board is crippled. The law was intended so that the board can invoke the period of reflection and not that grasshopper who only for his own gain walks a little in the grass.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u67	In my view, this bill is a legislative proposal in which the reflection period is a means of creating peace and space. It's not an end in itself. You actually want if the resignation of the board is requested just before an ava, you have a moment to discuss it with other stakeholders, to talk about the strategy et cetera. Mrs van den Berg has a point that does not necessarily need to be revealed in the letter asking for this to be done, which should not be an intention to raise, but an official request for an agenda. Now, of course, you can see that the current practice is that these kinds of resources are being used speculatively, and an activist shareholder will probably choose to reveal them himself. Nor does the administration stand in the way of revealing it itself. If you're asked to settle this, it's not like you're obligated to keep your mouth shut about it for nine months. The Board may itself state that such a request has been received and it may also choose to convene an additional shareholders' meeting at such a time. It's possible. With that period of reflection, you can do so safely. In fact, the power of shareholders to send the goods home has been suspended. Then you can also discuss it openly, if you say: I want to hear all my shareholders. In other words, in the legislative proposal as it stands, in my view there is sufficient opportunity to find that peace and space. If you follow the amendment, you might, in theory, have a very long reflection period, which I wonder is still proportionate. Then there might be an issue in which an investor says: I think this is a point; in May I announce that it needs to be brought up. Then you have 11 months until the next ava. Then 42 days before that ava goes a period of reflection of 250 days and so you don't actually have a rest period of 250 days, but actually of double. I think it is important to give that function to the Chamber. I would not be in favour of that, but it is the consequence of this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u68	The Minister uses the word "speculative." I think that's a good description of what the shareholder behavior often is. But also in the Minister's example, it is clear that the shareholder thus determines the whole agenda. It pushes the board... Yes, the board may convene a special meeting, which that shareholder is entitled to zero on the basis of his percentage of shares. So that one shareholder, with a few shares, is setting the whole agenda instead of the company's board. Should the situation arise which the Minister indicates may lead to a much longer period of reflection and matters that we have not meant, then that shareholder, as well as other shareholders, can always go to court and say: I think that this makes improper use of the entire period of reflection. But I would almost say that the Minister, with his example on all sides, confirms how that one shareholder is going to set the agenda, instead of allowing the board to invoke that reflection period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u69	The board can always invoke the reflection period, even if this is done in May, just after the shareholders' meeting. For all intermediate ava's that take place there are also large companies that have half-yearly ava's that would help, because in that 250-day period the next ava falls. Well, at least you'll have peace and quiet to talk about the strategy with your shareholders, without sending the board away. But there are also large companies that only have an ava once a year. If eight, nine, ten months before that ava is applied for an assignment, you could say that a company still has enough time to discuss it with all stakeholders in the run-up to such an ava. If you say on top of that "also 42 days before that ava can run that ticker for 250 days," you create a situation where you have a period of about 500, 600 days in which shareholders cannot exercise part of their rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u70	As far as we are concerned, the crux is that it is also laid down in the government agreement that the principle is that the company may, at some point in the run-up to an ava, decide to use the period of reflection. The effect of the law as it stands today is that that letter calls you that the formal request for an agenda determines that starting point. That is where the imbalance lies, because that shareholder can determine that starting point. Look, it is known that the representation, shareholders' representatives are generally not enthusiastic about this law, because they say that it limits their possibilities. My question would then be: if such a shareholder does not want to suffer from the period of reflection from the perspective of that shareholder, what does he or she have to do to send that note in advance a few days after the ava? After all, he knows that he can always withdraw this until more than 60 days before the next ava, but by sending it he knows for sure that one year later he will not suffer from that period of reflection, should he indeed wish to have that request for resignation on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u71	Yes, but in fact it does. If he's gonna file that... let's keep the rhythm. There was an ava in April and then such a request is made in May. Then eleven months after that request, there will be an ava, where it would not be on the agenda. That is the effect of this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u72	Exactly, but the effect of the law as it stands here is that the application for dismissal is simply made there and that it is not the case that the board of the company, in the run-up to an ava, has any control over the setting up of a reflection period, because the shareholder has decided to do so eleven months before that, with which the reflection period has no effect on the next ava.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u73	But the question is whether it is not enough time to think when you have eleven months. Then this reflection period gives us the opportunity to organise, for example, a bava, in which you say: we are getting this again, but we think that this is an unreasonable request; we want to assess the vote among our shareholders, whether they want to support our strategy in this direction, while these shareholders say that they want to go the other way and that they want to fire us if we do not do what they want us to do. Then you also know a little bit about the temperature of the water. All that can be done safely with that period of reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u74	Mr. Chairman. I would like to make one more attempt to get the Minister to look into the head of that shareholder who actually doesn't like this law at all. Let's just say the Dekker Pension Fund. That pension fund decides after the ava: I want to prevent the next ava, if I want to send some people away, from giving me that period of reflection. So I'm gonna put that resignation request on the agenda of the next ava right now. Whether I want to use it, I don't know yet, but I'm sending it now, because then I'll know for sure that this reflection period is going to run. If the board of the company invokes that period of reflection, then at least by the time the next ava takes place, I won't have any problem with it. What does the Dekker Pension Fund do to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u75	It is also open to a company to call for this period of reflection over and over again in specific cases. It has to be a specific issue. It is a specific dispute, but it is a strategic change that is a conflict about. If someone submits this without giving any reasons, it will not stand before a judge. So I guess that's not so bad with the strategic behavior. Now, of course, we are also dealing with a response time of 180 days of the current governance code. It's based on the moment of announcement. Then you don't see this strategic behavior either. I understand. I put another strategically undesirable point before you. What can happen if you regulate it in the way Mr Paternotte and Mrs Van den Berg propose it in their amendment? The question is whether both will occur. I only think that in the variant Van den Berg/Paternotte the period of reflection can be very long. The purpose of this bill is not to allow a company to invoke a period of reflection. The goal is that it gets the peace and space to have it on very essential things like hostile takeovers and strategy provisions with a wide range of stakeholders. So what's a reasonable deadline? Well, we said 250 days. But if you end up in one of those fraternities 11 months before the ava, you'll have over 250 days to discuss this. I have always understood this: what this bill is intended for is for dismissal applications from the board, which are submitted shortly before an ava, with some kind of robbery strategy or a robbery tactic. That's what this is an excellent bill for. That's where it does its thing. Only: the adjustment would, in my view, make that period unnecessarily long. I'd like to give that to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u76	I actually want the Minister to move on to the next point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u77	Then there is Mr Van der Lee's amendment on bonuses. He suggests that when you call in the reflection period you should refrain from your variable reward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u78	I am sorry, but in view of everything the Minister has said, I assumed that he will give the amendment by Mrs van den Berg and me the Chamber of Justice. At least I didn't hear a judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u79	He didn't say that explicitly. I got a different impression, but let's let the minister say it himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u80	I think I've outlined the consequences. I would not be in favour of that change, so I would advise against the amendment. Mr. Chairman. I also find in this amendment, and perhaps even more evident than in the amendment we were just talking about, the possibility of conflicting interests and perverse incentives really very much present. After all, the idea is that we make it easier for directors to call in the reflection period where the company's life is at stake and to opt for some peace and space. If you say "you can do that, but you have to hand in bonus," I am very afraid that personal interests, or financial interests, will play a role in that. Of course, it's never one individual driver who pulls the cart, but where companies have these kinds of constructions, they often apply to multiple drivers. Then those two are gonna get mixed up. I'd really like to think that's a shame. I mean, you can find bonuses you like, but it can have exactly the opposite effect of what I think we're all trying to achieve. This is because healthy companies, which are good for the Netherlands, which are good for employees, who we want to keep together, may not get the protection because... Yeah, I don't want to justify the judgment of drivers, but they still have in mind: yes, I'll be able to whistle at my bonus later. I just wouldn't like that. I really think it's better to disconnect those two.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u81	I would like to ask the Minister explicitly: is it not simply the case that the director is legally obliged to serve the company's interests? That's the lead. Then I think, and that was my argument, that the power of invoking that period of reflection with the consequence "I also personally make a sacrifice" only increases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u82	I fully agree on the strength of the argument. I always find it incredibly tough when big corporate bosses say: boys, I also make a great sacrifice in complicated times, because the importance of the company is paramount to me. That's not a duty. You shouldn't do that. That has to be really voluntary and really serious, otherwise it won't work. I'm just scared here. You are absolutely right when it comes to how the law works, but when it comes to takeovers when is it a hostile takeover, when is it not? Also, factors that may lead drivers to talk or see if the company can't be split up may always play a role. Because when is it against the interests of the company? That's also part of the way those drivers are in the game. I think it would be a shame if that discussion, which is already getting different shades of grey, became even more complicated by the fact that perhaps in the background there is also a self-interest, that if, for example, you choose peace and space with a reflection period, which actually means that you give your flexible reward. I'd just say that's a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u83	One more try. In those cases to which my colleagues referred during my speech, it was the case that in the event of a takeover, the directors would receive a bonus. But that can only happen if a strategic decision has been made that you want to be taken over as a company. But we are not only talking about the threat of hostile takeover, but also about a shareholder who wants a division to be sold because there is a disagreement as to whether you should concentrate or diversify. That is a very deep strategic question. Then the driving can help to show: I think this is so important, I make this sacrifice, because I think it's really strategically wrong to sell that division. This, while in the short term it may even be financially beneficial, also for those drivers. That is why I think it will serve the power of that possibility above all. And I just don't see the risk that a driver will say: yes, this will cost me my bonus, so I won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u84	Of course, you're incredibly tough when you say at such a moment: I'm not only calling for reflection, but I also know that I'll hand it in personally. I always think about men and women with that kind of salary: then maybe you can have that too. Well, anyway, we're a little on the same page. But I think this is just scary and I hope Mr Van der Lee will understand that. It's often about these kinds of issues, about splitting up the company, about selling a division, about cutting up. That's not math. You can disagree on what is wise for the future of the company. Suppose you're wondering, what do we do wisely? And let's say you're a little screwed. Suppose you say: well, we want to hold it off and then we have to call in the reflection period and that's going to cost all of us personally. Or it's said: you know what, why don't you have a conversation with that investor to see if we can't make a good deal to do it his way anyway? Then something can sneak in where you actually float them in those arms with such a construction. I think that's a real risk, and I think it's an experiment if we put that into the law now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u85	We actually had something like that in the law to prevent that, namely the aphrodisiac scheme. And I honestly thought it was still in there, but that arrangement was actually abolished as of 1 July 2017 due to a horizon clause. I hear the Minister's reasoning that it is actually undesirable that during a takeover directors have a financial interest, because that may affect the decision. Maybe it'll sneak in, the minister said. Is he in favour of reintroducing such an aphrodisiac scheme or any other form of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u86	I really need to think about that. I know that arrangement. It seems to be an arrangement which disappeared from the law some time ago because it was given a horizon. This means that it has been introduced even further into the law. I think it is too premature to go along with that now. But I see this coming back to me in this debate by Mr Van der Lee. And I'm also sensitive to what you're saying, which is that sometimes you also see that big corporate bosses can also have a personal financial interest in going a certain way, while you might wonder if that's always beneficial to the company. So I think we need to focus on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u87	I think it's good to have this part... Of course, this has had an evaluation, with advantages and disadvantages and effects and I don't know what else. But the principle that you as a director should not have a financial interest in such a takeover is shared by the Minister. I look forward to developing this further, in order to further strengthen the protection of our companies and the Rhineland model.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u88	Minister, will we have your explicit opinion on this amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u89	It won't surprise you: I advise against this amendment. Mrs Van den Berg asked a second question. That was also a technical question, which concerns Article 261 (2) of the BW, in which the Ava has the power to request the Entrepreneurship Chamber to resign from the Commissioner. It asks whether it applies during the reflection period. The article provides for the possibility of dismissing a Commissioner for job neglect, important reasons or a radical change in circumstances. I think it is important that, in this situation where a Commissioner does not work, the judge can intervene in emergencies. Then you have to think about fraud, malpractice and that sort of thing. This is really a different situation than a difference of opinion about the strategy and, as a possible consequence, the expulsion of directors or Commissioners. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the third theme. This is about the combination of reflection time with own protection measures. A considerable number of Dutch stock exchange companies already have protective measures. Think, for example, of preferential or priority shares and certification. Some call in response time. We do not want these measures to be implemented in conjunction with reflection time. That is also a choice that comes back to the coalition agreement. But it also has to do with proportionality and reasonableness: don't beat it too hard. In practice, it is difficult to give a clear rule on this because there are many different measures for each of them with their own purpose and effect. That's why we chose to leave this to the judge in the end. For example, the opinions of the Council of State and the Committee on Company Law have played a role in this. Why shouldn't we have a stack like that? Mr Van Gent already gave the answer in his speech. The idea is that the protection of the company must also be proportionate and reasonable. A company may protect itself, but that must again be proportionate to the purpose of that protection and in the event of a stacking it may be at risk. The amendment in part No. This is also the subject of 15 by Mr Van Gent. The amendment allows shareholders to go to the Business Chamber when the reflection period runs at the same time as incompatible protection measures. Protection measures are in all shapes and sizes. Purpose, duration and impact vary from one measure to another. It is therefore best to leave the coincidence to the judge in a specific case. Mr Van Gent's amendment is in line with that idea and I can therefore leave it to the House to decide. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the guarantees. In my introduction, I said something about the importance of sufficient safeguards in the proposal to protect the interests of all concerned, not only the companies but also the shareholders. Such a guarantee concerns first of all the calling in of the reflection period. This must not be allowed to happen, only if there is a substantial conflict with the interests of the undertaking. It must also agree with the reflection period. A special course of justice to the Enterprise Chamber also offers legal protection to shareholders. Shareholders may ask to end the reflection period when the reflection period should not have been invoked or when the reflection period is no longer necessary if it does not need to continue. In the latter case, for example, think of the situation where a hostile bid is withdrawn and thus de facto the calm has returned. Then there's really no reason or reason for that period of reflection. A number of amendments relate to this, first of all to Mrs van den Berg's amendment and Mr Bruins' Amendment No. 13. This is actually seen in the reference to'most urgent', as is still stated in the legislative proposal. The amendment would remove that part in order to promote peace and time for the company. A relatively quick examination of an application by the court can also in the short term clarify whether a reflection period has been rightly invoked. You could say that's also in the company's interest. That was actually the underlying idea of leaving that part "most urgent." At the same time, I also understand the idea that this proposal will allow you to achieve more time and rest for the company. It is therefore obvious that this should be taken into account in the proceedings before the courts. In other words, the judge may then examine the various points of view in such a way that it does justice to a well-balanced and carefully-balanced judgment. It is important to me that the Enterprise Room can perform custom-made work and decide for itself when a request for termination of the reflection period, for example, is to be considered in plenary session. I see that the amendment still offers room for that. That's why I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. Mr Paternotte has tabled an amendment to extend access to the Enterprise Chamber. We have now set that at 3%. He is quite right that a number of other large companies have different statutes. I think it's a very good idea to even those two. I can therefore leave the opinion on this amendment to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u90	The amendment in part No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u91	Yes. Mr. Chairman. Then guarantee the continuation of the block. That period of reflection must be used well. The board engages in dialogue with different stakeholders. Among those stakeholders are the shareholders, but also the works council. At the end of the reflection period, the board shall be accountable by means of a public report to be discussed at the next shareholders' meeting. When it comes to the report, I will come back to the point made by Mr Van Gent. I would like to begin with the two amendments tabled by Mr Alkaya. These relate to a greater role or position of the works council. One amendment is a little more far-reaching than the other, but I would like to advise against both, because they really put the works council in the chair of the board. I wouldn't like that. We have very clear tasks, roles and responsibilities for governance in our company law. The board of directors, supervisory directors and the works council has advisory rights for specific elements and sometimes consent rights, but not for matters of concern to the board. I think this is really a matter of strategy, policy, continuity of the enterprise. I'm a little afraid to mix those two; hence the judgment. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Van Gent's amendment to give the shareholders' meeting the right to vote on the report on the reflection period and on what it has achieved. I'm a little hesitant about that. I don't really think that's necessary because it's actually already being discussed in the ava. You could even say that such a mood also takes extra time and effort to organize. I do not know whether such a vote really does justice to what you mean by such a report. It is not a matter of whether you vote for or against the report, but it is a form of accountability to the shareholders' meeting. That is why I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u92	Minister, it's just as unclear here which number you're referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u93	That's a good one. Wasn't it filed? Then it was still in my folder. Yeah, that's right. It is the only amendment that did not have a number, but Mr Van Gent and I did discuss this amendment in detail outside this sitting. Excuse me. Then I will check whether I have not yet commented on one amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u94	Number 7.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u95	That's number seven. That's the evaluation clause. I think that's excellent. We can leave the judgment to the Chamber. There are still quite a few challenges. Mr Van der Lee himself indicated that. How do you test the effectiveness of this? I can imagine that after five years you'll just ask shareholders, directors, supervisors and companies if it's worked or if you've invoked it, so the flat experience figures. They can help a lot already. If it is about the preventive effect, it is, of course, a complex one. I'm sure it's there. Anyway, let's leave that to the investigators. Who knows, they might have clever solutions to map that, too. Mr President, I have answered all the questions. I gave the amendment my opinion. I think I've come to an end with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u96	Yeah, I guess so. Let me look at the Members: do they need a second term? That is what Mrs Joba van den Berg needs. Then we're gonna do a second term. If you don't want to talk, just don't. At least Mrs Van den Berg will do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u97	Thank you, Mr President. At least I would like to thank the Minister for the answers. I am, of course, disappointed by the Minister's appreciation of Mr Paternotte's and me's amendment. I hope I will speak on behalf of Mr Paternotte when I say that we still want to put the amendment to the vote. I think it is a milestone that gave Mr Van der Lee a beautiful historical overview of the entire legal history. We are right about that in the report. It also described the importance of the protection of companies. Hopefully we can make hostile takeovers more difficult, make activist shareholders difficult and put the Rhineland model, with all stakeholders' interests, better on the map. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u98	I do not need to use my second term, Mr President, but I have one question about the amendment because I have to advise my group. What do I do with it now that the Minister is quite clearly dissuading the amendment? I'm gonna take a practical look at it. Suppose there's a shareholder who wants a division sold. In order to achieve this, he shall submit a request to dismiss the board or one of the directors. That's the motive. Then it is difficult for you to invoke the period of reflection only when there is actually an arrangement. Well, then I'll feel a little sorry for the Minister. If it sticks, then that reflection period can be very long. Once there's a strategic disagreement, you want time to settle that in peace, but you do want to settle it and not extend it endlessly for you. If I understand the Minister correctly, there is a risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u99	It concerns Mr. Paternotte and me that the board calls for that reflection. We want to prevent the activist shareholder from destroying the law in the end. Suppose the board says he may not have 10%, but it is a huge shareholder; I'm just calling a special meeting and I'm going to call the reflection period. We have no objection to that at all. But then it's up to the board to be in the lead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u100	If that is the point, why not an amendment that creates both options? Why not give the board the opportunity to call it in on the notification or on the final assignment? Because then you put the board completely at the helm when it comes to calling in the reflection period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u101	We are signatories together, so I must discuss this with Mr Paternotte. If there is anything to clarify the amendment in the explanatory statement or whatever, we can do so before the votes. The clear message we want to give is that the board must be in the lead and that not one activist shareholder can simply turn the whole thing upside down with an informal note and in fact just destroy the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u102	I was wondering whether Mr Van der Lee's concern that the board could not in fact invoke the period of reflection could not simply be overcome by simply organising a bava, just like 10% of the shareholders can. As a result, this problem is perhaps a little smaller in practice. Indeed, if you want to enforce that resignation, you will still have to come up with a certain percentage of shareholders. Can Mrs Van den Berg confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u103	As Mr Paternotte says, 10% is already needed for a special meeting of shareholders. One shareholder can also always find friends or allies to see if he can get that 10%. There's nothing wrong with that. In the end, the board can also say: this may not be 10%, but we think it is so important that we do a special ava. If there is something we can clarify in the amendment, I am always prepared to look into it. But what matters is that the board stays in the lead. That was the intention of the law and of the period of reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u104	I would like to thank Mrs van den Berg for her contribution to the second term. Mr. Paternotte has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u105	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the thorough answer and analysis of all the amendments. I think it's important that he did. So thank you very much for that. I am also, of course, disappointed by one judgment he gave, but with that disappointment I will learn to live. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say one more thing about what I christened "the protection paradise." I agree with everyone here that this should not be a very serious acute problem, but I note that seven German and seven Italian companies are moving their registered office to the Netherlands with protection structures. Silvio Berlusconi also attempted to do so, which was blocked by the court last week. I would like to put a question to the Minister. He says, as far as I am concerned, it is a result of an investment climate in which we attract these companies, and that is good. Well, it's not very pretty. It's not like these companies are gonna come here and do all their work here. No, they're setting up their registered office here. It is likely to yield something from lawyers and accountants, but in this respect there is no fundamental difference from all trust offices that manage a lot of companies in the Netherlands. Many of these types of companies are also subject to trust offices. I'm gonna ask you a question about that. What does the Minister say to the European colleagues who are knocking on our door at some point? They then say, "Gooh, we find it striking that all kinds of companies are moving their registered office to the Netherlands, while you have just been trying to reduce your reputation as a country for which it is attractive on fiscal grounds. So now it's happening on these grounds. We don't really like that. Can we make agreements about that?" Is the Minister open to that? Or does he say: no, this is our way of European competition? That's the question I want to ask him. Thank you again. I should also like to thank the Finance officials for their preparations. I was reminded of that for a moment after thanking the EZK and JenV officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u106	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. If there are no further insertions from the side of the Chamber, go... Oh, I still do. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u107	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, and also for his constructive attitude towards the analysis of directors' remuneration and the role that this can play in mergers and acquisitions. I have the next motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for directors of undertakings to have a financial interest in mergers or acquisitions;]] [[Considering that due to a horizon clause, the afroom scheme at the time disappeared from the law in 2017;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to explore the possibilities of re-limiting the financial incentives for directors to consent to mergers or acquisitions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Alkaya and Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35367-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u108	Mr. Chairman. I indicated in this debate that the PvdA Group will support this law, but that more is needed to protect and strengthen our Rhineland-Palatinate model. That is what the next motion for a resolution is about. I could have made a lot of proposals, but I would limit it to two motions. So this is the second one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Rhineland model is aimed at various stakeholders and the long-term;]] [[Whereas short-term interests may still prevail;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to make proposals to discourage quarterly reports and encourage loyalty shares,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Alkaya, Mr Van den Berg and Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35367-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u109	I don't know if Mr. Nijboer is okay with it, but I'd like to co-sign this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u110	Of course it's okay. Then we've got a coalition party underneath, too. Maybe that'll help. Then tonight we have achieved something in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u111	Thank you, too. Mrs Van den Berg is added as co-signator. Then I can give the floor to the Minister for his term. Oh, of course he wants the motions, so we'll suspend briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u112	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u113	Mr. Chairman. We are going to try to finish this debate this day. That is why I give a brief response and then an opinion on the two motions. When it comes to the amendment on which there has been a lot of discussion, I do not disagree with Mrs van den Berg when she says that the board should remain in the lead. But that's what it does in the bill. It is ultimately the board that decides whether or not it calls for a reflection period. It's just about the moment from when it's gonna run. I think that's what the discussion is about. Mr Paternotte asked: what happens if you are addressed in Europe by your colleagues to the fact that many of their companies are settling here? I shall first draw my colleagues' attention to the freedom of establishment we have in the Union. That's a big good. I will also point out to them that, of course, we also respect all European laws and regulations. We have also, of course, had it tested in the drafting of this bill. And of course, all of that has to fit. That's a bit of the palette where countries can get started. In my opinion, the difference with tax structures is that you have to ask yourself: what exactly is the problem? If companies are settling here to actually avoid all kinds of things and try to contribute as little as possible to the public business, where a lot of other people and companies do, I think that is really undesirable. So that's why we all included constructions before that. It may well be that international companies say: we do like the fact that we can find certain protection that we consider important for the continuity of our business in the Dutch system, where company law is more possible than in other countries, for example. So I would also ask my colleagues at such a time: what exactly is your problem and why would it be undesirable for the Netherlands to give these companies a place? Mr. Chairman. Then there are the two motions. I actually felt that I had a very good debate with Mr Nijboer and that we are coming a long way. Actually, it's kind of bothering me that I'm gonna dissuade both motions. I'm kind of telling you the plot. That has to do with the first motion, the motion in part No. 16, has a certain degree of superfluousness, because the research requested has actually already been done by my predecessors. Dijsselbloem and, I believe, Van der Steur sent a letter to the Chamber at the time in which the afrooming scheme was at least evaluated. It then lapsed, because the conclusion was that it did not work. But other possibilities have also been investigated. It has been announced that this will be taken into account in the modernisation of company law that will take place in the course of 2021. So that is also when, I think, we are going to have the substantive discussion about the choices that the cabinet is going to make. Mr. Chairman. On the second motion, the motion in part No. 17, it is not so much about the process as about its content. I sent you a letter on 20 December 2018. It was about those double-voting loyalty shares. That's kind of the French model. At that time I was asked: could that not be part of the modernisation of company law? We actually came to the conclusion that that had more disadvantages than benefits. So then we said: we really don't want to go on with that. Then it would be strange to say now: we are going to encourage it towards parties. The same applies to quarterly reports. I do not know how long it has been, but I believe that a previous cabinet has abolished the obligation to produce quarterly reports. But then, the Monitoring Committee on Corporate Governance Code looked at whether you should discourage that further. She says there's actually no good reason for that. Because there may well be reasons to work with quarterly reports. In other words, what is actually against transparency if there is some reason to do so? So that's where it's more on the substantive argument not to be for it. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u114	Then I thank you, Minister, and also the members for their input.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-18.u115	The votes on the amendments, the legislative proposal and the motions will take place next Tuesday. With those words, I close the meeting.
