ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u1	As usual, we shall begin oral Question Time on Tuesday. This time we will begin with Mr Remco Dijkstra's questions on behalf of the VVD to the Minister of Infrastructure and Water Management on the report of the Research Council for Security on the crash of Turkish Airlines at Schiphol Airport in 2009. I give the floor to Mr Remco Dijkstra on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday RTL reported News: Lacks Boeing covered in Turkish Airlines crash at Schiphol Airport in 2009. I remember exactly where I was in February 2009. We had a renovation at home. Half the house was open. We had a number of construction workers visiting us who did the work. Those were Christian people. They didn't have television. I got that call in and we've been watching all morning or afternoon: what's going on there and what happened there? It was a bit of a weird situation, actually, but impressive. In the end, nine people died and 120 were injured. If I read it correctly, then the crash was caused by a combination of factors, in which a failing altimeter and late intervention of the pilot led to the crash of the plane. For this failing altimeter, a warning was issued to the aviation industry to take action as soon as possible. They have therefore been informed of the danger. In the summer of 2010, the OVV, the Security Research Council, issued eleven recommendations. I am well aware that Justice and Security system is responsible for the OVV and that the OVV is, of course, independent, but in the context of aviation safety I have a number of questions. Firstly, how do we deal with flight safety in general? How are we dealing with such situations and what is the learning ability that we have with each other? Why doesn't a message like that come out more than ten years after that? Have the researchers actually travelled to America, as I can read in The New York Times? To what extent would it be desirable for parties involved, such as the manufacturer, to participate in the preparation of this report? I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u3	I now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. Mr Dijkstra reminded us of the terrible disaster that these questions are facing, in which nine people died and 120 were wounded: such a serious accident which had to be investigated very seriously. Mr Dijkstra asks how this has been secured in general. According to ICAO's international regulations, there must be an independent institute investigating such an accident. In the Netherlands this has been invested in the Research Council for Security. Mr Dijkstra knows that in his introduction, he also mentioned that the OVV is independent. The OVV has carried out research in this case. This has led to recommendations. It is then necessary that those who are targeted by the recommendations follow those recommendations. Normally the OVV, as we know from many OVV studies, will also look over time at: are we satisfied with the follow-up of the recommendations? Once again, as far as the research itself is concerned, I am not the one who has to answer that, because it is up to the OVV to go into that more closely. The OVV is completely independent. The first responsibility to follow the recommendations lies, of course, with the aircraft builder himself. When it comes to the US, there is the FAA, the US regulator, who must ensure that the recommendations are followed. In Europe, we have EASA, which has independent competence and can ask further questions itself, whether it can check with the FAA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u5	It is true that this OVV is independent in its judgments, but imagine that mistakes have been made at the OVV. Then what is the learning ability of the Security Research Council and who can answer that? Or should we invite the OVV here ourselves? The report, as the Minister rightly says, contains a number of recommendations. There are 11 of them, and four of them are addressed to the manufacturer, Boeing in this case. But who is responsible for monitoring whether these recommendations are also taken on board? Do we take that into account or do Boeing itself? The extensive article in The New York Times establishes a relationship between this air crash at the time, in 2009, and two more recent accidents with the Boeing 737 MAX, where in fact an airplane fell out of the sky, or at least something happened to the nose. Is there a relationship there? Finally, Mr President. I understand that these are complex questions, but is the Minister prepared to inform us in writing if necessary? Or would she at least like to come back to this in the general consultation that we are about to have with each other, in order to be able to answer these kinds of questions in more detail?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u6	The first part of Mr Dijkstra's question was: what if the OVV does things wrong? Within the Netherlands, the Minister of JenV system is responsible, also for the functioning of the OVV. In the case of specific sector-by-sector recommendations, in this case aviation, ICAO and EASA are also encouraged to check whether the OVV has indeed carried out this investigation properly. They are responsible for this, too, and they check that it is done properly. Then the question was whether there were any relationships with other terrible disasters. I really can't say anything about that, because the investigation into the MAX is still ongoing. I assume that they also involve everything, including what can be learned from previous studies. It is not for me to speculate whether or not there will be agreement or conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u7	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you, Mr. Remco Dijkstra. Mr Paternotte, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u10	This is about security. Then the last thing you want is for an aircraft builder to participate in the inspection of his own meat. The question is whether this has not happened here. I would also like to put a number of questions to this Minister. I want to hear the OVV myself. I will make a proposal for this tomorrow at the procedural meeting. The type involved in the TK 1951 disaster was a Boeing 737-800 NG. This is also a type that is widely used by the KLM and by TUI fly. Last year, 50 remained on the ground worldwide due to cracks in the hull. My question to the Minister is therefore whether she is prepared to look again at the safety of this particular type of aircraft.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u11	The first question asked by Mr Paternotte is: is it okay that an aircraft builder is watching his own product? We have, of course, looked into the regulatory framework. It is common practice to look into this, but in all these investigations there may be checks, including by the builder, on factual inaccuracies. You know the system of OVV reports. Then there is in the back a table where the OVV indicates: we take over this or that of, for example, the Ministry or a builder. It is therefore common practice for the OVV to share a draft report with interested parties, but not the recommendations and conclusions. I don't have any clues that that would have gone any different here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u12	There were two questions from Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u13	Then Mr Paternotte, if he wants to be so kind, has to reword them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u14	It's really about repeating. You may not add a new question. Otherwise, that's what counts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u15	It is about the fact that this type of aircraft is still flying around, so it has now been confirmed once again that there is a problem with the sensor that The New York Times says was decisive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u16	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u17	Last year, 50 were on the ground because of cracks in the hull.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u18	No, the Minister knows exactly what you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u19	This is indeed about the Next Generation. I would like to say to Mr Paternotte that we will ask whether there is any reason to look at this again. But that too will be left to the experts. So we will examine their views at the OVV and we will check with EASA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u20	I have another question about the fact that it is common practice for the OVV to engage in talks with, in this case, a manufacturer. Of course, it is impossible for a manufacturer to put pressure on the OVV to amend the report. That's unacceptable. I would like to know from this Minister how Boeing has put pressure on the OVV in this case. 'Cause that pressure was there. That has been admitted today. I would like to know how that happened and how we protect the OVV from external pressure. We attach great importance to his studies and recommendations. How's that taken care of?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u21	I am not the spokesperson of the OVV in this matter, but I very much agree with Mr Laçin that of course no researchers should be put under pressure by a manufacturer or by any other party. I think that it is first and foremost up to the OVV itself to comment on whether they really believe that pressure has been exerted on them and, if so, whether other measures are needed. But I very much agree with Mr Laçin that it should not be the case that researchers are being put under pressure. When the O.V.V. indicates that this did happen, I'd like to hear it. Then we also need to see if any other measures are needed. But that too is speculation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u22	I'd like to get on with this. It is indeed mentioned that the manufacturer has put pressure on the OVV. It is also suggested that this would be the case. But the question to the Minister is the following: I do not know which minister can answer it, but this minister is here now. Has there been any pressure from abroad on the government at that time? Have there been opportunities for influence or pressure on this issue? Of course, the interests are very great for that manufacturer. Can the Minister say anything about that? Or can we do it at another time? In any case, I would like to have a clear answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u23	Again, whether pressure has been exerted on the OVV yes than no, is mainly up to the OVV itself to assess. In general terms, when it comes to putting pressure on investigative bodies, it is mainly up to the Minister of Justice and Security to ensure that this is done. As far as this particular case is concerned, I cannot answer the question as to whether pressure was exerted on the government at the time, but I will be happy to look into it for you. As we are about to have a general discussion on flight safety, I will send you everything I can to find out about it before that general consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-2.u24	Thank you.
