ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u1	The next item is the defence budget. I have heard from several Members that they may not use their full speaking time. That is why I propose to be a little generous with the number of interruptions. Shall we do four interruptions in two with a final word? The final word with you is almost always quite an interruption, so I would point out that it must be a short closing word. Today we do the first term of the Chamber and Thursday we see each other again when the cabinet answers the questions. It is a budget of over 11 billion; it is about something and so we are going to listen carefully to you. First of all, I would like to welcome our Secretary of State, our Minister and their officials, who I know are eagerly involved in writing and listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u2	As the first speaker of the Chamber, I give the floor to Mr Fritsma of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Budgetary treatment is, of course, always a good time to look ahead, to look at broad lines and priorities. In the field of defence, the cabinet itself has recently initiated this process, in the form of the Defence Vision 2035. However, the PVV has been surprised to learn of this vision of the future. That starts with the threat analysis. Because everyone can see what threatens security in our country and throughout Western Europe. We have seen the most horrible massacres in recent years, including Manchester, Berlin, Paris, Brussels, Vienna, Nice. Innocent people have been murdered, slaughtered all around us, including in our own country. Islamic terrorism is thus literally and figuratively attacking our freedom, and it is also attacking our core values, such as freedom of expression. Theo van Gogh, Samuel Paty and Charlie Hebdo's heroes are examples of this. Our democratic societies have been attacked in the heart for years. Mr. Chairman. At least you want a serious answer from the DOD. But in that Defence vision 2035 the word Islam or the term Islamic terrorism does not occur once; not once. So my first question is how that is possible. I do not know exactly how this report came about, but it must have been extremely difficult not to face up to the greatest danger we face and not to tackle it. Then what's the DOD for? Mr. Chairman. It is shameful not to talk about the Islamic violence that threatens our society and has also repeatedly affected it. We do read a lot about climate change, about fake news, even about ageing. You're kind of wondering at every page if you're actually reading a piece of Defense. The report is also full of politically correct jargon, such as "irregular migration." That is a left-wing word for 'illegal migration', in which a lot of foreigners just enter our country without a visa, without an invitation, without need and often without papers. People you don't know who they are and what they're doing here, but you're sure there are terrorists in there too. But by concealing a harsh reality, of course, you do not solve any problems, while it is very much necessary to come up with serious solutions to that threat and problems right now. Mr. Chairman. This requires a whole different effort from the DOD than we see now. It goes without saying that the emphasis should be on border surveillance. And even this cabinet must simply acknowledge that the present open borders make it impossible to protect its own territory. And the protection of our own territory is, of course, the first core task of Defense. It is irresponsible to let anyone who wants to walk in here uncontrolled. We keep seeing where that leads. Jihadists who have a lot of blood on their hands are picked from Ter Apel to Capelle, often already in possession of a residence permit. Thus, with the removal of proven terrorists, we already have a huge problem for our national security and the protection of our own territory. In order not to increase this problem and to solve many other problems, our own Dutch borders must therefore be restored. Those limits must be monitored and monitored. Fortunately, our Defence staff, our staff of the Royal Marechaussee, are also very well able to take care of that. Then we can keep that Islamic terror out of the door and decide for ourselves who we may or may not let into our country. I note that Schengen is simply unsustainable and clearly has had its longest time, not thanks to the VVD, but thanks, for example, to the French commitment. I would therefore ask the Minister to be ready in the very short term to re-establish these border controls. That's what we really need DOD for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u4	I will come back to naming radical Islam, or the jihadist warriors or rebels, or the jihadist threat. They wouldn't be part of the Defense Department's vision. Would Mr Fritsma perhaps add a text or amend a text?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u5	Yes, I would do that if I were invited to do so, because it is, of course, Islam, the Islamic terror that threatens our security, our freedom and our core values and has already struck. Defence's first core task is to protect its own territory. The first core task must therefore be fulfilled, inter alia, by taking the danger of Islam and Islamic terrorism much more seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u6	That's where we'll find each other. The CDA also considers it important to mention the radical Islam or those jihadist fighters in that threat analysis. I might have a suggestion. Perhaps you think this is a good idea and we will say: it would be nice if that were in the vision. I would like to propose the following. It's three sentences, Mr. Chairman. "In different places around Europe and elsewhere in the world, national forces are unable to control jihadist organizations. For example, the Sahel and the Horn of Africa are still plagued by jihadist and ethnically motivated violence. Jihadist groups still have a worrying degree of freedom of movement and capacity. These thrive in places where proxy wars are fought, such as the armed struggle in Libya, Syria and Yemen. Islamic State continues the battle underground. Developments in jihadist combat areas can inspire jihadists in the Netherlands to attack." Do you think that's a nice text?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u7	That's what it says. Of course, that's not what the cargo covers. First of all, even with those three sentences, people are misguided, because they are talking about jihadism that can allow people to get inspired in the Netherlands. That's what it says. You just read it. But it doesn't say that those jihadists are coming here. People are not only inspired; people who plan to blow up our Western society are coming here. And they don't talk about it. I have also read the word 'extremism' before you quote it, but it does not say what extremism it is. Are they extremist garden gnomes? Of course not. Even the word "Muslim Extremists" is not mentioned. You call the term "radical Islam." Even it doesn't say that, although "radical Islam" is, of course, a pleonasm.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u9	So even a politically correct pleonasm is not in the text.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u10	We're gonna talk through me again. I'm gonna keep the order anyway. "You" is me, the chairman, and I didn't say anything. So please speak through me. Mr Van Helvert, a brief word, as I said at the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u11	This is a good thing. The PVV started with the argument that there was nothing in it at all. So there's a lot in there. We've named a few things. Finally, I would like to say one thing that is not correct. That is why it is a good thing that the PVV continues to read the vision as well. In fact, it says that jihadist groups still have remarkable freedom of movement. One of the consequences of this is that they also come to the Netherlands. I believe that we share that view, but if that is not enough, I would say: use even more sentences.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u12	Finally, Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u13	That once or twice the word "extremist" or "jihadist" is mentioned in the margin, often literally, is of course not what you get there with. Again, I've really been watching. It does not contain the word "ism" or the term "Islamic terrorism." So there's really going to be a lot of hot stuff going around. I would like to give an example of this before I go on. The protection of our own territory, the core task of defence, is vital. Even an attack we have had on our own territory, namely that terrible tram attack in Utrecht that was an attack on our own territory is not mentioned. Instead, we read whole paragraphs on fake news, climate and ageing. Then the balance is completely lost, isn't it? That's the point I wanted to make. Mr President, I shall continue. Unfortunately, as long as we do not have that border surveillance in place, there is a great need to use military forces on a more extensive scale to secure locations that are sensitive to terrorism. I have just said that we have had to take a lot of Syrian terrorists off the streets in the Netherlands. That indicates the extent of the threat. On this point, too, the Royal Marechaussee is already doing a fantastic job at Schiphol or here in the Lower House, but in view of the real terrorist threat, it should also be done at large stations. The security of our citizens is worth everything. Then it helps if the army has visible control over that security and if it can intervene wherever it has to. On this point, too, I would like to receive a response from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a point that has been troubling the PVV group for a very long time, namely the issue of double nationality and very specific Turkish service. This Turkish service also applies, as we know, to Turkish Dutch workers working in the Defence Department. Now that the tyrant Erdogan is unfortunately still in charge in Turkey, this problem is more urgent than ever, because if you have fulfilled the military service in Turkey, also the abbreviated version of it, then you have had to swear allegiance to Turkey. Moreover, until the age of 45, everyone must remain available as a reservist for the Turkish army. From that point of view, the PVV wants to know how many Defence personnel have sworn allegiance to Turkey through that military service or the shortened military service and how many Defence personnel are potentially callable to serve as a reservist or otherwise in Erdogan's Turkish army. Does the Minister recognise that it is unacceptable that some of the Dutch defence workers are called upon by Erdogan to fight for Turkey? Of course, we really can't have that, such a bizarre situation. After all, we know what Erdogan and the Turkish army are doing. I mention the links with ISIS, the misconduct against the Kurds, the aggression against Greece, the aggression against Armenia, and you name it all. The fact that Dutch Defence staff are or may be committed to this, whether they support it or not, must be prevented. It is often said that Turkish-Dutch Defence staff are really loyal to the Netherlands, but that does not mean that Turkey has an influence on them, that they have to comply with Turkish law and that is why they are unfortunately within the reach of Erdogan's long arm. That conflict of interest can't have a place in the Defense Department. Even the appearance of such a conflict of interest must be avoided, although of course this factual situation goes far beyond that appearance. Mr. Chairman. As a follow-up, we know that Turkish Dutch workers working at Defense could get an interest-free loan to buy off that Turkish service. Is that still true? I cannot imagine, because that would mean that Dutch taxpayers' money would be used to help the Turkish army. There's no way the Minister can give that signal. In order to solve all these problems, banning people of dual nationality should no longer be a taboo. The problems with this continue to haunt us. I would also like to comment on this point. Finally, Mr President, I would like to make one final point. Today's criticism of the PVV and last night's criticism focuses on how the cabinet deals with Defence, not on all the military who do a great job and who will continue to support the PVV, but only want to use it in a different way than this cabinet does. I can leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u14	Thank you. As a second speaker from the Chamber, I would like to give the floor to Mr Van den Bosch of the VVD. ...with his argument!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u15	Yes, Mr. Chairman, it's definitely about something. I was born a child in peacetime, built in 1955. That was a period of reconstruction, the Cold War and the Brussels sprouts smell. It is a long time gone when the predecessors of Mrs Karabulut Mao Zedong on the shield hoist and Hans van Mierlo still worked for a local newspaper in France. In 1955 the debris of the war was cleared, but my parents' heart and head were still full of debris. That was hard for me as a little boy to understand, growing up in a Europe that reinvented itself. My generation was formed by the Iron Curtain and the battle between the United States, the West, so to speak, and the Soviet Union. Mr. Chairman. It was different times. To paint a picture: in 1955, not the Rutte III cabinet ruled, but the Drees III cabinet. Even then, there was a coalition on a broad basis. Of the only eight parties in the Chamber, four were in the cabinet. That was the CVP, the Labour Party, the AR and the CHR. The VVD, at that time also a sensible party led by Mr Old, chose not to participate in that Roman-red coalition. It was the years of politicians like Joseph Luns. And then there was even a Secretary of War and a Secretary of State for War. The same Secretary of War was also the Secretary of the Navy. And there was also a Secretary of State of the Navy. Mr. Chairman. 65 years later, a lot has changed. The Wall fell. The European borders faded and the end of history seemed to be written with the rise of liberal democracies. However, nothing else turned out to be true. That's what we see every day today. In recent years autocracy has been advancing like mushrooms after a rainy autumn day. Jihadist attacks caused fear and terror on the European streets, and in the ring around our continent the instability grew due to migratory flows and unrest in Russia. Because our safety is not self-evident, let us be clear. The trusted battlefields land, sea and air are still topical. Cyber and space, however, create new challenges. Investments in the Defense Cyber Command and the intelligence services are therefore important to guard our security. The successful cyber-domain operations against the Russian intelligence services in recent years show that the Netherlands is strong in this. In addition to cyber, space is also a new battle ground that Defence needs to take into account, although new ones are relative here too. Because in the Cold War, the United States and the Soviet Union were already developing missiles to disable each other's satellites. But over the past decades, we have become increasingly dependent on satellites for both our military and our civil communications. Who, for example, can still read a map during a trip abroad, President? I wouldn't happen to ask you that. Meanwhile, more countries are developing missiles against satellites and there are also more subtle ways to disrupt or listen to signals. NATO rightly identified space as an operational area last year. It is important for the Netherlands to play its part in keeping this area safe for itself and the allies. When do the leaders expect to present the defence space strategy, so that both the government and the Dutch business community and knowledge institutions can go through? What possibility do they see to build on the specific knowledge that already exists, such as radar technology to detect radars from space for example? In addition, through the European Union, there is already a major civil space programme. What are the possibilities of using knowledge and skills for military space? For the VVD it is clear that steps need to be taken. That is why we advocate a defence space command, just as the Defence Cyber Command grew from the Army some years ago. Mr. Chairman. In order to protect our way of life, we need to rethink international politics. We are opposed to a European army, but within the international context we do want strong cooperation between European countries. Mr. Chairman. I carry the heart right and therefore continue to amaze me about parties like D66 and GroenLinks, who dream every night under a European blanket about a bureaucratic federal state. That is a nightmare for someone like me, who has a strong and realistic Europe in mind. And in the interests of the Netherlands, we can strengthen the defence industry at European level, or make the infrastructure suitable for the transport of military equipment. In this way, European countries can make a greater contribution within NATO and, if necessary, start missions themselves. The problem is that without the military force and nuclear umbrella of the United States, we have no adequate deterrent for Russia. The Americans spent so much money on their armed forces that we actually received subsidised security through NATO. Therefore, it remains unbelievable that there are still parties flirting with alternatives to NATO. I'm so glad they're not in this government. That would feel a bit like making Dracula board member of the blood bank. On the other hand, there are also challenges, such as Turkish provocations in the waters of EU Member State Greece, where the United States did not help us out and so we as European countries should be able to protect our interests together. The Netherlands is a precursor to cooperation with other European countries, such as the Navy with Belgium, the Marines with Great Britain and the Army with Germany. It is good if these existing partnerships are deepened and we are also stepping up cooperation with other countries. For the VVD, Europe is more than the EU. In recent years, you can see that the southern European countries in particular are taking steps to strengthen their defence through cooperation. Wouldn't it be a good idea for us here in Northern Europe to do more about it? I know that the Secretary of State and the Minister have been talking to our eastern neighbours on several occasions. We can always follow that on Twitter. That is a good development, but it would be wise if there were a structural Northern European partnership, in which we could not only practice together, but perhaps also manufacture stuff. I'd like a response from the rulers. A substantial increase in the defence budget to the European NATO average is therefore necessary. At the end of Rutte II and the beginning of Rutte III, a good step forward was taken after years of austerity. Because 25 years of budget cuts have cut into it. There is now another cabinet that chooses to invest. It's a good trend, but we're far from there. It should also take political shape at a time when the finances of the Empire will be heavily relied upon in the coming years. It is all the more important to make clear to society the why of our military security when investing heavily, because a modern military force is needed to keep Europe safe and protect our free way of life together with our allies. If we do not fight the Islamic State in Syria and Iraq, radicals can travel, follow terrorist training and attack again. If European countries do not guard the Mediterranean, we will have no control over migratory flows and Navy ships from countries such as Russia and China will be given free rein. And if we are not vigilant and assertive in the cyber domain, Russia, China or Iran feel free to steal business secrets here, break into vital infrastructure or manipulate our democratic society. To be able to pass this cool country on freely and safely to our children, we need a robust military force capable of carrying out its tasks under the most difficult conditions. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u16	You're moving on to another topic. Mrs Karabulut of the SP has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u17	Yes, thank you. Mr Van den Bosch spoke of my predecessors. I can tell you that if you go back very far, they come from the Kurdish part of Turkey. And as Mr Van den Bosch knows, I myself was born and raised here, and at some point became politically active. And I have many socialists as an example and inspiration. That's just a correction. Mr. Chairman. My question is: is it true that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has actually abandoned the 2% NATO ghost standard?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u18	I should like to take note of that first remark, Mrs Karabulut. I didn't mean that personally, you know that. But of course it was a bit about the SP in my young years. Then it was a different SP than it is now, and that is worth a compliment in itself. That is the first point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u19	Mr Van den Bosch should have expressed himself a little more carefully, but I note that. And now for the 2% standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u20	I'm about to say something about the norm.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u21	My question is quite brief and clear: is it true that the VVD has released the 2% standard? I'm up for that, too, so we'll be pretty close to each other all of a sudden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u22	I can be brief about it, but I'll get back to you in a minute. Our new election programme states that we must go to the European NATO average. That would be very nice. We'd have to put billions a year into it. That's our bet. I would also add that 2% or 1.8% is also very relative, because you also know that it is a matter of... Greece has the 2% standard for a long time, but you may wonder if it is really participating in this society in the military field. I also think it's good that we get good stuff then. But we are going for the European NATO standard; that is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u23	Finally, a short word.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u24	Then I note that the 2% standard has indeed been released, because the EU average is about 1.5%. That's profit. I know, and I am aware, that the arms expenditure for the VVD must be increased because the industry will then be haggled. But in my term I come to talk about why this is such a terrible plan for safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u25	I must correct one thing: it is not the EU average, it is the average of Europe. There's a difference. So not the EU average, but the European NATO average. This is higher than the EU average. You will understand that, because a country like the United Kingdom is no longer in the EU. It may still be that it will be increased by our Members by amendments, because our Members still have to establish our electoral programme. I'd like to add that. Who knows what's gonna happen next? It's a concept program. Mr. Chairman. Man...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u26	Oh, there's another question for you from Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u27	Speaking of 2%, we have often argued, together with the SGP and the VVD, for a higher budget for Defence, and also for its need. Last time, the VVD said in advance of the election that there really needed to be more money. That's why I'm saying this. But when it was really about butter with the fish, so if you looked at what was in the program... if you put it through at the CPB, it's never gonna work out so well. The CPB doesn't think much investment in Defense is a good investment. Then it is said: let's do it a little lower. Now it turns out that the VVD is doing that again. Mr. Van den Bosch, you're spokesperson for the VVD...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u28	Through me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u29	Madam President, Mr Van den Bosch is the spokesperson for the VVD. Given all the input of the VVD over the past three and a half years, can it be any different than that Mr Van den Bosch is very disappointed in the VVD's programme, when it comes to investments in defence?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u30	First of all, I am pleased that we are in one government with you and that we must therefore compromise. It's about us taking steps every year. I believe that this cabinet, and also at the end of Rutte II, has invested in Defense for the first time in 25 years. You also know that we have choices to make. You are fully involved in this with your party. Think of care and education. So these are very difficult considerations. I can only say now that I am very pleased that in our electoral programme, at least in our draft electoral programme, NATO's Europe standard is the starting point. Maybe you're up there. Then we'll get together in the cabinet and maybe we'll figure it out. Well, at least we'll make a huge leap forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u31	Through me again. Mr Van Helvert, a slightly shorter interruption, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u32	But I know that the VVD last month, I think, and the month before and the month before in all the debates on Defence we have had, has always argued for that 2% standard. Mr Bosman, on behalf of the VVD, said many times: it probably needs to be more, because more is needed. Now, through you, Madam President-in-Office, Mr Van den Bosch says that he is pleased that we are going to reach 1.7 or 1.8. What happened within the VVD that the investments should be less than 2%, according to the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u33	I'm just stating what's in our draft election program. It remains to be seen whether this is going to be any different. I would like to ask whether you are going to mention the 2% standard in your programme, which we would also like to be realistic. If we move towards that 2% and start to meet that European NATO standard, we find as a VVD... that is more than 2 billion a year. I'd like to give it to you. So that can't go to care, education or all that other stuff. I think you should be a little realistic, too. But the final goal is the 2% standard. Mr. Chairman. Man is the most important pillar for the battlepower of the armed forces, from the youngest recruit in training to the reservists who commit themselves in all kinds of ways to that army. They vouch for our freedom. The same applies to the veterans who have done so in the past and who may be prepared to do so again as a military servant. It is therefore important that we invest in this. The reserve must be expanded. We briefly discussed this yesterday. We have a reservation note for that. I would like to ask you one more time during this plenary debate: how do the rulers look at the role of reserveists in the defence sector? The VVD also wants to compliment the directors on the way they have started working with the Defence College in recent years. That is a good way and a good example of how Defence can gain creative access to new knowledge and skills and how young people can be excited for a further career as full-time power or reserveist at Defense. Well, I do have a few more questions. Is there any possibility of an extension to HBO? When could that start and on what scale? Creative solutions are also needed for the people who enter through the VMBO or the MBO. At the end of 2018, the Commander of the Armed Forces and the Chief of Police announced career paths, where someone is first military for several years and then flows to the police with the help of internal training, but also remains a reservist. This is in line with the life cycle of many people who first want the foreign adventure of a mission but then start a family and then find a job nearby. Can the Minister indicate what progress has already been made here and when we can expect more results? Mr. Chairman. In this debate, I would once again like to express my appreciation for our military forces, for the people who are under the tussle and maintain us materially to the men and women who are being sent to high-risk areas and everything in between. I would have preferred to call all 64 828 soldiers, civilians and reservists by name. I do not think I have time for that from the President and thank you, but unfortunately I am also bound by speaking time. Mr. Chairman. It is important to strengthen the relationship between Defence and society. That's what we see with the corona crisis. This can already be started with the youth. In France, for example, there is a national defence day on which every youngster once follows a day's programme at a barracks. This strengthens the bond between the armed forces and society and can excite young people to work as a reservist or full-time military at Defense. In this way, we can also strike a battle in the field of diversity. That's how it'd be nice to have more women report to the Department of Defense. There is still much to be gained among immigrant young people in the cities. Will the rulers participate in the VVD's view that this also deserves follow-up in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u34	You have an interruption by Mr Fritsma of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u35	I heard Mr Van den Bosch pleading for a defence space command, but before we go into space, I would advise the VVD Group to just look a little closer to home first. For example, IS terrorists do not fall out of space; they cross the border here, uncontrolled, without papers, because we do not have border surveillance. So first I'd put the emphasis on border surveillance and then I'd look at space. These are the priorities that the VVD will hopefully follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u36	I'd say do both. There are things that are very important. That means you have to do the work that's there right now. That's also the challenge of the Defense Department. But that's not always easy, because we're lagging behind. But you're definitely gonna have to look to the future. That's also apparent from the Defence Vision. I don't think you should leave one and do the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u37	But looking at space right now, with all due respect, is a little absurd. 'Cause look at the problems. Look at the attacks in Europe. Look at the security issues. Look what we've been through in the Netherlands with jihadists being taken off the streets. Well, then you'd have to address that problem first, wouldn't you? There's one thing I don't understand. (NL) Mr President, that is my final point; then I will make this interruption in two rather than three. The VVD has announced with a lot of bombs that the Netherlands will have to guard its own borders if the European Union continues to fail in guarding the external borders. But I did not hear Mr Van den Bosch ask one question about this, while this minister is responsible for border control. That gives us some thought to how serious the VVD really is at that point of border surveillance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u38	I always say to the PVV: there are jihadists and they need to be tackled, certainly, but unfortunately there are also other enemies in this world. The PVV wants to forget that, but look what is happening in Russia. So you can't forget one thing, and neither can you forget the other. So you're gonna have to be very alert on both of them. I think I have been very clear that there are other problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u39	Just a small reminder of the VVD that where dictators are in Turkey or Saudi Arabia, the VVD is perfectly capable of doing business, but my question was not about that. I wanted to join the story about the reserveists and that the VVD is so eager to get young, modern people active in the army. But they also want modern policies, of course. For example, they want to be able to say what they think. Today reservist Pieter Haitsma Mulier is in De Telegraaf. A week and a half ago he wrote to De Telegraaf about a renewed sg-direction that regulates that soldiers should not just talk to the press and not just talk to people's representatives. Of course, he thinks this is, quite frankly, an outdated, old-fashioned arrangement. My question to Mr Van den Bosch is: are you going to support our proposal that this designation should go off the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u40	We are now going to discuss yesterday... you know that I tabled a motion together with the CDA in which we ask that we follow the normal lines that apply to all officials, whether it is in Defence or Infrastructure or in Home Affairs. That's just that you can talk to anyone you want. It also means that the cabinet has said: we are going to change that at least compared to 20 years ago, when it is all a bit tight in the suit. I believe that the Minister has made this very clear. We have also tabled a motion for a resolution on this matter. Look, there's always rules you have to stick to, but it can't be that you can't talk to MPs or anything. I don't have that experience either. I think we were very clear about that yesterday. In terms of time, I don't want to repeat all of that either, but it doesn't mean there's no deal you're sticking to with each other. There's nothing wrong with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u41	Mr Van den Bosch and the VVD are all but clear. They're all around the hot stuff. This reservist, Pieter Haitsma, had already received a call from the army staff the day after he had written De Telegraaf about the sg-directive in which he was ordered to be available for a conference call to give text and explanation. Mr President, I can tell you that the motion of the VVD and the CDA before us does nothing except say: we are waiting for a new policy announced. If the VVD and the CDA say that this cannot be done and that soldiers should be able to speak in accordance with the civil service law that applies to everyone, they should support the motion that I will be tabling in my second term on Thursday. But the VVD isn't serious. In doing so, you are undermining the same modern military force that you are so eager to see organized.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u42	I understand that Mrs Karabulut is a bit upset that we already raised this point yesterday and tabled that motion. It's clip-and-ready for me. That motion is very clear. It just says it's gotta be normal the way you're acting. I'll just say it in normal words for the outside world, and there's nothing going on. I think the Minister said, but then I'm going to talk on behalf of the Minister, that we're not going to do separate rules and we're not going to ban people. I also think that this cannot be done; let me be clear about that. If that's the case, you can't. That's what our motion says. That doesn't mean that for all civil servants there is also that for municipal officials - there is no particular rule that you have to abide by with each other. But that has nothing to do with a duty of silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u43	Very briefly, Mrs Karabulut, through me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u44	That is indeed the Civil Service Act, but the motion tabled by Mr Van den Bosch simply says that this arrangement, which means that the gentleman is called and called for a conference call, remains in force, at least until I know very well when the new rules are in place. Mr Van den Bosch must therefore be very clear about this. You do not stand for the freedom of expression of the military.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u45	Finally, Mr Van den Bosch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u46	Those are the words of Mrs Karabulut. I'm tasting some kind of jealousy in there. I think that's what we stand for. The military can just say anything. I have a lot of experience with that, too. They can say anything, but that doesn't mean you can't make rules. I think our motion is very clear. I really don't see any problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u47	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u48	Mr. Chairman. The pay house deserves maintenance. We talked about that yesterday. At that time we agreed that we would also discuss it today to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to say something about it. More flexibility and customisation are needed in the way in which Defence looks at functions and rewards, especially when new areas of interest are gaining. Specific knowledge and skills should therefore become more important in relation to the traditional age and job classification. A cyber-soldier with specialist knowledge should be able to earn more than a senior colleague and a 30-year-old should be able to make it a general, whether she is a woman or a man. In companies, it is not surprising that young people at that age already have a position in the top. In order to recruit and maintain the best people, the Defense Department should really go along with this development. Nor is it appropriate for a military person who leaves the service for some time and returns, often not to receive recognition, function and pay for the experience gained elsewhere. I hope I will never hear the terrible term "sorry-tant" again, because if a logistics officer has worked for some time at a transport company, that can produce useful experiences and insights for Defence. I also get stories from commanders who like to commit talented young people but then run into institutional barriers. I am talking about a long process of inspections, permanent training and screening. I understand this need to be careful and that not everything can be done quickly, but sometimes there is still room for a little bit of customization. These talented young people, with talent in cyber, robotics or artificial intelligence, are already approached by companies if they are still in the college banks. If a company offers you a job right away and you have to wait months at the Department of Defense, the military loses this battle. I would therefore like to ask the Minister in which she sees opportunities for improvement and how Defence College can also play a role in this. Mr. Chairman. Governing is forward-looking. Last month, the rulers presented the Defence Vision, which addresses the importance of a high-tech military force, with which the Netherlands is of added value in a strong cooperation with allies. I would like to congratulate the rulers on having come up with a vision that contains everything and which we are going to talk about very often. The kitchen table is a wonderful place to develop visions. That's what I do at home with my wife. But it only gets interesting when we make choices. Making choices in money is a lot harder. You could have also chosen to give the choices. We miss them. For example, as a VVD, we want to move towards a defence budget that corresponds to the average of European NATO members. What can we do about that? I'm not gonna do the formation here; neither are you. But with the party programmes in the hands of parties that want to seriously increase, we need to think about this and make it better for Defence. What choices should we make now in order to take a first step? I'd like a response from the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u49	There is a question for you from Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u50	There are two painful moments that come to mind at once tonight. The first is that I must miss Mr Van den Bosch for the next period. I'm really sorry about that. And the second is that in the coming period the VVD will no longer be in favour of this 2% NATO standard. I am talking about the European NATO average of 1,43%, I think. That's very precise, but it's in that neighborhood. Anyway, that's just the way it is. My question is: when is the VVD there? Is that 2021, 2022, 2025 or 2030? I'd like to hang on to it for a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u51	Also in the previous election programme the 2% standard was not mentioned. I'd like to pass that on to Mr Stoffer. You and I may regret that, but it wasn't there. The European NATO standard is around 1.8%. That's a lot of money; that's 2.5 billion a year. I won't be here anymore, but if the Chamber decides by majority with the new cabinet, I think everyone will be very happy, including the Defense Department, if we give that to Defense every year, especially given all the other problems we have. So I'm glad we're clear. It is very simple: the next step will have to be taken in the next four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u52	If I understand correctly, Mr Van den Bosch says: by 2025, at the end of the next period, we will be at 1.8% and then it will have to be at 2% in the period thereafter. So the VVD is actually aiming at 2% by 2030. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u53	Yes, but then I say to you that we have always said that we should not stare to death at only 2%. I have always learned from my colleague, Mr Ten Broeke, that 2% seems very nice, but if our prosperity goes down, if there is a government that is perhaps going to do that; I do not know that the 2% standard goes down and then you get to the 2% faster. So you have to be a little careful just to talk about 2%. It is also about our level of prosperity: how much do we spend? We in the Netherlands are always high up there; you know that. So I'd like to add that reserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u54	It's a short word.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u55	I would like to give that reserve to Mr Van den Bosch. I'm a little more precise, it's a little more easier, but 2% in 2030, I'll keep the VVD on that in the next few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u56	Okay. Good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u57	There is another question for you from Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u58	What an honor to be in this Chamber together, after all those election debates we once had together. I hear you saying a number of things that I'm very happy about. You're talking about making choices. You're talking about no more money, no more money, no more money, no more real choices. And then you disappoint me, because then you actually ask the Minister: come up with those choices. But what choices do you make yourself? What would you choose, besides doing things with it? What are you going to do less? 'Cause doing everything for 1.5% isn't gonna be him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u59	I think I just mentioned a few topics. I am not going to chew everything out now, because we do not have the time, but first of all there should be a lot of overdue maintenance. You know that, too. Unfortunately, that's just what's going on with the DOD. It's not like we're just gonna say: all the money that goes in, we're gonna spend on the future right away. I just mentioned cyber. There's still a few things to name. I'm not gonna do these negotiations right now. That's really up to others, I think. One of the great, important things is cooperation in Europe. I said something about that, too, and maybe I'll say it again in a minute. We will really have to work much more together in this area in Europe, because otherwise it will not be payable. So there really are success to be made. Maybe there are still hard choices to make that I don't know at the moment, so I'm not going to speculate about. But I do think it is up to the Cabinet and the Minister and the Secretary of State to be clear about this in their transfer document for the new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u60	I fully agree with you on the latter, so let us invite these leaders above all. But if I paraphrase you correctly, you'll have to correct me if I'm wrong. You're actually saying we need to specialize and work better with other countries. So the VVD actually follows the line that GroenLinks has been saying for years: that would be much more sensible than that big Swiss pocket knife with which you want to do everything. I am therefore very glad that you will be on our side of the Chamber with that. Let us then step up this invitation together so that I can give you the opportunity to choose how we will specialise and shape this cooperation with other countries so that we can develop that good defence together in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u61	I'm always glad everyone's pulling me over. That's pretty good in this country, isn't it? That's always good; working together in this country. I would like to say that working together is not new. The minister's predecessor has already started to seek alliances, and this cabinet has continued to do so very well. I would like to stress once again that this needs to be made even more structural. I have just said about Northern Europe that you will have to do so, because the money you can then earn... I give this example once in a while. In the old days, the mayor was even allowed to pick out the fire truck; that was a hobby. Then it became so that the mayor had nothing more to say and the municipality did it. Nowadays the region does that and then you buy twenty fire trucks instead of three. And that's taxpayers' money. That money can go to other people. Well, that's not new. That's what this cabinet is doing. That's what Minister Hennis started. But we must continue with this and I think it is good that I put it down as well. That is not the same as a European army, which you want, because that is not a good thing at all. That was the most important answer, I think, to your question. At least I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u62	A very short closing word.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u63	A very short closing word. Perhaps you realise that in the security region itself, as mayor, you have also been able to realise that cooperation is also determined by interdependence. That means specializing, working together and depending on each other, so I think we can find each other in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u64	And that's what's gonna happen. Look at the First Army Corps, what the Navy does to Belgium and what the Marines do to the British. What I meant earlier is that we should also seek more cooperation in the area of industry and in the area of buying military equipment. Then I am very much in favour of the Northern European alliance, because I believe in it more within Europe than in the Southern European alliance, for many other reasons, which we are not talking about right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u65	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u66	Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, in alliances, the Netherlands also continues to develop cooperation, for example by developing modular and scalable air defence with nine other countries. I would like to congratulate them on these steps, on cooperation. I would also like to ask what more opportunities the rulers see for developing and preparing joint weapons systems, as is the case with the tanker aircraft at Eindhoven Airport. All members of the Alliance have to do with the need to invest in new and complex weapon systems such as hypersonic missiles, defence against them, large manned and unmanned aircraft, submarine combat or intelligence gathering. If countries do all this separately, we may be spending a lot more money, but we are creating such fragmented capacity that overall profits in impact and perseverance remain extremely limited. I think that's an answer right away. The VVD would like to know from the Minister what possibilities it sees here and in what way the Netherlands can be a pioneer in this. The VVD wants to invest heavily in Defence over the next few years, and also sees it as an opportunity to further develop the course of cooperation, especially when other countries invest with the Netherlands at the same time. Mr. Chairman. The little boy from 1955 is currently working on his last months in this beautiful house of democracy. I would say: with a firm VVD we can also give today's children a bright future. That is a heavy responsibility for all of us, but I have every confidence in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u67	Thank you. Beautiful! I would like to give the floor to Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen from GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u68	Mr. Chairman. Today is World Aids Day. So today we are discussing all those people affected by HIV and AIDS. It is good to invite these rulers to consider how Defense deals with people who are HIV-positive or untectable in their term. Mr. Chairman. DOD needs to specialize. That is the main message in the vision given by these rulers to Defense at the end of their term of office. And with that they join GroenLinks after years, which has been pleading for this for a long time. Unlike GroenLinks, however, these directors argue that specialisation should be accompanied by a mega-investment, a growth path that increases to 16 billion extra annually in Defence. That's what the Minister and the Secretary of State want. Mr President, my group is sometimes accused of being over-ambitious and lack of realism, but as furious as the Minister and the Secretary of State, GroenLinks has never made it. We asked in the round of questions about the Defence Vision where the rulers would pay it out. Does it have to be paid for cuts in health care, education? Is the public debt supposed to rise now? Or should taxes be increased? The answer we got back was: yes, the next cabinet should figure it out. For directors who are in charge of an organisation that should be there when it becomes difficult, that is rather disappointing. Even when it comes to the question of how to specialized, it remains very quiet. It is, of course, unpleasant to make hard choices and to put army parts in front of the head, but I had hoped that the rulers, with their eyes on the exit, would have had the courage to make decisive choices. But don't worry, because because it is still difficult for this minister and secretary of state to make choices, GroenLinks is willing to deliver. We presented our own defence vision this morning. For the past year and a half, my predecessor Isabelle Diks and I have worked hard on this. We called it "A Humanitarian Armed Forces." For GroenLinks, Defence has the greatest added value in supporting society, maintaining the international legal order, helping with calamities and protecting vulnerable people worldwide. We have analysed these needs in an analysis of the challenges and threats that Defence will have to be ready for in the coming decades. This results in our choice to specialize in the cyber domain and in the Navy. As far as we are concerned, there is no doubt that our cyber defense needs to be strengthened, so that we remain in control of cyber threats and can continue to protect our vital infrastructure. Cyber should therefore become a full, separate branch of Defense. What is the government's position on the creation of a cyber force command, where, to begin with, STPD and Defense Cyber Command could be placed under? Would this not contribute to a coherent approach to the cyber domain, and to a good political debate on the resources we want to make available for cyber defense? Apart from the wishes arising from our own defence vision, it seems to us right that politics should be able to make a choice of specialisation in the coming years on the basis of good, elaborate scenarios. Is the Minister prepared to initiate the identification of detailed options for specialisation? In doing so, it is necessary to consider at the level of equipment, units, budget and international cooperation what is necessary to enable various specialisations. As far as I am concerned, the exploration and wide-ranging social rethinks are far too general. I'd like a response. Then the staff, Mr. Chairman. The lack of progress in the new wage building in the Defense Department and in the settlement of compensation for the victims of chromium-6 were mentioned yesterday at the WHO, where unfortunately I could not be with the forest because of the treatment of my own initiative paper. Still, it's still wringing. In recent years we have been told that it is not possible to agree with the trade unions. When the Chamber asks, the answer of the Secretary of State is always: that is between employer and trade union. That's how it was yesterday. But if things go wrong over and over again, isn't there a structural problem? Where does the Secretary of State think it is? Are we simply dealing with trade unions that are not open to reasonable negotiations? Or is there something wrong with the tone on the Ministry's side? Would the Secretary of State be willing to look into that and see what he's into? Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the real estate statement. Working in squeaky, squatting and trekking buildings does not contribute to the appeal of our defence force. It is clear that getting the real estate portfolio in order costs a huge amount of money. The Chamber has therefore embraced my motion to see what role cash slides can play. After all, revitalizing real estate is almost always a no-regret measure. I understand that in the meantime, with an inter-departmental delegation working group, it is difficult to identify policy options. How far has this working group gone? Can you say something about that? When can the Chamber expect the policy options? I could just imagine that it would be useful if those options were there for formation. Mr. Chairman. I am often quite critical of this Minister and Secretary of State, again today, but it is also important to give compliments where that is right, especially in the last budgetary treatment of these directors. My group greatly appreciates what this Minister and Secretary of State have done for the position of Ihbti persons within the armed forces. Examples such as the explicit inclusion of lhbti soldiers in the recruitment strategy and the roll-out of the rainbow runner on Coming Out Day are decisive for the tone at the top, which eventually floats into the broad organisation. There is also a world to be won. Women's participation in the Defense Department is improving, but it can and must be improved. The fact that there are still military components, like the Marine Corps, which no women are part of is a missed opportunity. Women make the armed forces stronger. Here too, the tone at the top is important. GroenLinks would like to encourage the cabinet to do more. For example, the Defense Department is about to acquire two new frigates. After that, more ships will arrive. It would be a missed opportunity if Defense did not have frigates named after brave women who have meant a lot to the Netherlands. Previously, former Defense Chairman André Bosman, we all missed him for naming a frigate after resistance heroine and first female military Francien de Leeuw. That didn't work because the naming was too far in the process. I hope we are on time now and that the Secretary of State will consider naming the M-fregates and possibly other ships in the future after Francien de Leeuw and Jos Gemmeke, another resistance hero who has meant an incredible lot to the Netherlands. I am considering tabling a motion at this point along with VVD and D66. This morning Mr Van Helvert mentioned this as a super good and beautiful idea, so I think he also wants to submit. Finally, the defence of the Caribbean. The Minister now knows that GroenLinks always pays particular attention to this. Previously, the Chamber adopted a motion from my predecessor Diks to strengthen international cooperation with other countries in the defence of the Caribbean. At the end of last year, you reported that a bilateral agreement is under way with France. What's the status of that now? When can we expect progress? And do you see any opportunities to strengthen cooperation with other partners, such as the US and the UK? All the way to the end, Mr. Chairman, and then I'm gonna finish. I'm gonna make a call to inform the Chamber more about ongoing missions. We now only get the annual report, which can only contain public information. It seems good to GroenLinks if there is a periodic, where necessary confidential, briefing for the Permanent Commission on the important developments and results of military missions. This could promote mutual understanding. Is the Minister prepared to think about that? Mr President, another afterburner. Yesterday 150 scientists in NRC called for a preventive ban on killer robots. Would you like to reflect on that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u69	Thank you. There is a question for you from Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u70	Oh, that's nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u71	I actually liked that a plea was made from GroenLinks to give a boat, a Defence boat, the name Francien de Leeuw. I actually wanted to suggest that GroenLinks, together with the SGP, should table a motion to call the first submarine that will be ready, Francien de Leeuw.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u72	I would like to invite you, in particular, to sign our motion and do it now with the M-frigates. These submarines are a process in which we are, of course, in a different way. Maybe you've already read our vision. We do not choose those submarines, but above all we choose sturdy ships for our navy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u73	Too bad, though. I thought we'd get that Chamberwide thing done. All right, I'll think about that motion. But as far as the other motion is concerned, think again, I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u74	I'm definitely gonna do that. And I very much invite you not to abandon the women either when it comes to our frigates.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u75	Thank you. I hear all kinds of interruptions, but as long as they're not done by the microphone, they don't count. As the next speaker from the Chamber, I give the floor to Mr Van Helvert, who speaks on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u76	Madam President, I am pleased to be able to take part in the GroenLinks motion for the women's names. 'Cause my daughter, 16 years old, is dying to join the DOD. I'm afraid to come home if I don't have my name under that motion. So thank you very much for that. Mr. Chairman. Two millennia and 127 years ago, the Roman army camped with many vacancies. However, there was also a danger. Our own territory and the territory of allies had to be protected. To this end, the Numid king Jugurtha must be defeated. Gaius Marius was appointed junior consul in 107 BC. He was tasked with the task of making sure that another strong army came on its feet. Marius did this by drastically changing the pay structure. Men without property could also join the army. The state paid for the armament. Soldiers received a good salary and were able to ascend into society. That was new. Finally, Marius organized a good retirement for veterans. The consequences were profound. The Roman army grew to unprecedented power and all vacancies were filled. In 2017, after Christ, the Dutch army faces many vacancies. Here too, our own territory and that of allies must be defended. State Secretary Visser will be appointed in 2017 to shape the new wage building. However, in 2020 there is still no view of a wage building. We talked about that yesterday. While that should have been introduced last July, we still have 9,000 vacancies and the job evaluation in the Defense Department is based on a civilian job evaluation, which makes a soldier scaled in scale 1, and with a little luck sometimes 2, which is similar to someone in a social workshop. In 2020, we still have a overtime allowance for military personnel that is lower than for a course filler in the supermarket. The Consultative and Arbitration Committee says: it is a "failure, open and real consultation which is mainly due to the employer." The committee is not talking about Gaius Marius in 107 BC, but about our rulers in 2020. But the power stations were also criticized. The parties underestimated the process and the committee advises an independent process director. Yesterday we asked if the Secretary of State was willing to give that up. The CDA attaches importance to the recognition of the military profession in the new remuneration system. The CDA calls attention to the payment of petty officers, corporals, sergeants, adjutants, but also soldiers. They're underpaid. Where Gaius Marius' soldiers were able to work in society in 107 BC, after a number of years in which they began a career with ambition and a sense of duty at Defense, our military eventually see experimental gardens being built but still in the dark when the framework for allowances is established, the special position is written out, the legal status is rewritten, the execution and career paths are planned and the remuneration is fixed. That's why the CDA is asking for a Defence Staff Plan which has been worked out when which people are working on which part of the entire payroll building and all the outbuildings. Mr. Chairman. There's good news, too. Old soldiers come in often because they want to go back to DOD. Are they received with open arms or are they to be received by infinite bureaucratic mills? Is it true that a trial was held in which 30 Dutch became military within one day? And if so, how did that trial go?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u77	There is a question for you from Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u78	It's about the staff section. What always surprises me is that a fund for equipment has been set up to buy large weapons over the next 15 years, but that all kinds of human problems, from wages to AOW-hole to victims of toxic substances, have remained. What explanation does Mr Van Helvert have for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u79	I don't know, but we suck at that. That is why we want the Secretary of State to draw up a plan so that everyone working at the Defence Department knows how the wage building is currently being worked. Then everyone can see when it is there, because there is something happening here and there and there is a lot of work going on. The Secretary of State says "we're working on the payroll building, which takes a very long time," but with some things like the grant framework, you might be able to do something right now. To ensure that everyone in the Defense Department gets an insight into when what can be expected and who is ultimately working on it, I think we should get such an overview. The Secretary of State also says: I do not do it alone; I also have to do it with power stations and other bodies. Then we can also see where it goes wrong and then we can also answer the questions that Mrs Karabulut and I both have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u80	I have tried, together with Mr Van Helvert, Mrs Belhaj, Mr Voordewind and many others in this Chamber, to find a solution for the chrome-6 victims, the employees, former employees and sometimes also deceased employees of the Defense Department who have been the victims of this violation of the duty of care. We're actually still trying that. I have tried to make an amendment to that effect. For example, I have looked at where there are still resources that are not yet legally binding. I did not table that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u81	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u82	We've been corresponding over-and-rifling about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u83	Could it be a little shorter, Mrs. Karabulut?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u84	Oh, yeah. This shows, for example, that it is directly at the expense of the number of FTE when you remove resources from military components. That is so tight budgeted that it is directly at the expense of the number of fte. So it's at the expense of the staff. So my question to Mr Van Helvert would be: is it perhaps an idea that we are doing something about this period to solve these problems, for example, by not purchasing nine extra flying Fyras, JSFs, but that money, that 2 billion, to structurally allocate to solve all these human problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u85	Mr. Van Helvert. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u86	Because without staff, they can't fly either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u87	Thank you. Mr. Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u88	A lot of different things were said. Something was also said about the POMS employees. I will come back to that in a moment. Two months before the elections, Mrs Karabulut says: will we put another billion in another place? I'm not in favour of that. Then we should have done that sooner. Nor do I think it is wise not to do anything in material. I do agree with you that the pay structure needs to be clear. So I agree with you, but that doesn't mean you shouldn't do anything in material. Staff is the most important thing, but staff without equipment is also nothing. So we're both gonna have to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u89	Very briefly, as a final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u90	This is, of course, not the first time we have proposed this. I am not saying 'no material at all', but with those nine additional JSFs, for example, we could really free up resources to solve some of those problems. Is the CDA's fraction prepared to look into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u91	No, I don't want to reverse planned investments. I don't want to do that. What I do want is for the payroll to be put in order. I want this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u92	It is right that the CDA should stand up for the military and their salaries. There are 9,000 vacancies. You want to bring people in, especially at this time, you have to be able to give a good salary. It is a pity that you are still looking at the Secretary of State, because this is a VVD-CDA coalition, with a number of directors of D66 and Christian Union. Your party is in that. The Secretary of Defense is your party's. You could have arranged that for the past three or four years. Most soldiers who are watching now think: nice story, Martijn, but over the past four years we have seen few euros. That is why I would like to ask you once again whether you are prepared to do business with Mrs Karabulut, but also with others, for the next two days, so that the people who are watching this debate can say: they are not just saying it, but they are also coming up with money that can raise salaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u93	Now I want to make it clear. Both the SP and DENK come to me with: CDA, bring me that money. But let's see what those parties put in their election programme at the time. That was really a lot less than what the CDA came up with. That we're still not getting enough, I totally agree with them. We're gonna need more money at the Department of Defense. I will come back to that in my speech. But it can't be that the SP and DENK, who really want to spend less on Defense, are now saying to the CDA: where are you with that money? It can't be. In addition, I am saying that the CDA is extremely upset, with DENK and the SP, I assume, and perhaps with all the colleagues here in the Chamber, that the wage building has still not been shaped and that all parties have underestimated that process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u94	Almost all the spokesmen here say that we've been cutting back on Defense for almost 25 years and that this has resulted in a drain. We want to make that right. The last three or four years have been invested. There's more money. But then comes the moment when soldiers are talking to me and say: there is finally money, but it goes to an expensive submarine and to nine extra F-35s. That hurts. They prefer an F-35 less and salaries up. Mr. Van Helvert, we now have additional resources to say: only one or two fighter jets less, because we give the money to the people who deserve it. This is the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u95	We must stick to the budget for a while, and we must also read it. The extra money that has been added has mainly gone to staff. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u96	Okay, that's a short answer. A very brief final remark, not a third extensive interruption, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u97	There are billions going to jets and billions to submarines. We can finally correct what we have been arguing here for years with that money. I think our military deserve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u98	Sure, there's a lot of money going to equipment. If we have good people, we'd like to send them out in the best equipment. We're not gonna send them in a wheelbarrow and a wheelbarrow to dangerous territory. We want them in the best equipment. In the long term, we have also reserved money for this. The money that has been added during this period has mainly gone to staff. Is that enough? No, we say, the payroll building needs to be well worked out and there needs to be more money to the Defense Department, especially to the staff. If DENK is going to say that the CDA has to come up with money, I say at first: what was the budget of DENK? Well, there almost wasn't. Secondly, I say that most of the extra money that has been invested has gone to the staff. We have to read the budget and not just read some beautiful pamphlets of your own.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u99	I shall now give the floor to Mr Kerstens of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u100	After what Mr Van Helvert has just said to my colleagues from the SP and DENK, I actually feel entitled to ask him why the CDA has always voted against amendments and proposals from the PvdA in order to make more money, for example, to open collective bargaining and to detach that office and remuneration building. But I'm not asking him that question, because I think I know the answer. The question I do ask him is next. He also pleaded today for a defence personnel plan. That's what I did yesterday. I also announced that I would be tabling a motion on this today. I want one plan that shows where we stand, where we want to go, how we go there, what we need to do and so on. Can I expect Mr Van Helvert to put his name under my motion as much as the motion by Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen from GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u101	If Mr Kerstens of the Labour Party allows me to reflect on this motion together, I am prepared to think about it with him, absolutely. But let's just wait and see the Secretary of State's answer. If she says that she actually thinks what Mr Kerstens and Mr Van Helvert are saying today is a very good idea, then I agree. But I'm willing to think about it. I think we want the same thing on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u102	I'm assuming she's gonna say that, because it's just a really good idea. But we'll just have to wait and see. Of course, I am prepared to look with Mr Van Helvert at the precise wording of a motion, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u103	I was just thinking that I might be too old a Member of Parliament at this point. I think we often ask questions first. When I said in advance that there would be motions, I thought it would be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u104	That's why I said, "Let's wait and see what the Secretary of State says."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u105	Mrs. Karabulut, your last interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u106	This isn't an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u107	All you're gonna say at the microphone is an interruption for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u108	I'd like to present something to you, Mr. Chairman. Can we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u109	Then it is a point of order. That's all we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u110	That was exactly what I wanted to raise, a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u111	Tell me!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Because my party's name has been used very often, both by Mr Van Helvert and by Mr Öztürk in their own interruptions, I would like to correct something Mr Van Helvert has said. Will you allow me to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u113	Very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u114	Of course, Mr. Chairman. It has been parties like CDA and VVD that have made cuts without making choices. The SP is in favour of another military force. The CDA is responsible for the current state of the armed forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u115	If you speak of others, that is not a point of order. A point of order is only about yourself. You know very well, Mrs Karabulut. I'll give the floor...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u116	Mr President, but as an explanation...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u117	Thank you. No, this is not a point of order. You know that very well. I give the floor to Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Karabulut cannot deny that since MP Van Helvert has been in the Chamber, the budgets for Defence have only grown. You could have said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u119	Anyway, that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u120	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u121	Madam President. Whatever Junior-Consul Gaius Marius organized were pensions for the former military. We discussed this yesterday, but I would like to come back to that. The benefits for former soldiers, as they call them, are loose ends. The UGM is only paid for up to 65 years. I agree with the Secretary of State's explanation that this is not about the AOW, because it has already been 100% compensated. Piet de Jong, a kind of Marius, once introduced the Disability orphaned military. Previously, the UGM, that benefit, went on to the pension and the AOW age of 65. Not anymore, because the AOW age has been increased to 67. That is why this additional allowance is no longer the case for the former military in those last years. You can then say some say that you can also pay 100%. You can also pay zero in the last two years. But there's a lot of things in between. The CDA is actually wondering why the Secretary of State rejected Mr Kerstens' motion yesterday. For he says: let a few wise people say 'gender-neutral' so let a few wise men look at that to map the scale of the problem and the recommendations and also to look at solutions. I understand very well that the Secretary of State says she doesn't have 1.5 billion ready to close that. I understand that very well. But there's also a lot between 0% and 100%. Maybe the Secretary of State can come back to that explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u122	There is a question for you from Mr Van den Bosch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u123	Piet de Jong is called. I think that was one of the most friendly prime ministers, alongside the Prime Minister we have now, who we have ever had. Do you know that Marius' entire performance eventually led to a civil war between him and Sulla and that Marius eventually died of insanity around 86 BC? You don't want to compare Piet de Jong there anymore, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u124	Madam President. Now I've built up a wonderful argument around Marius. That has a beginning and an end. Will Mr Van den Bosch not allow me to end my speech? That ends with Marius, too, so don't worry. But you don't have to tell me everything yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u125	Oei, Mr Van den Bosch
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u126	That's the downside of the Internet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u127	Haha! Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u128	By the way, not everything on the Internet is true. Sometimes it is also good to go through some literary and historical works instead of just the internet. But I asked if the Secretary of State could perhaps come back to that. Mr. Chairman. People who have worked for the Defense Department deserve all the praise and gratitude for their efforts. The same applies to the people who have worked at the POMS locations and who have been exposed to the toxic substance chromium-6 for many years because of their work in the Defense Department. We all feel that we need to accommodate this group for the suffering suffered. In addition, we think that we can actually delimit that group of POMS employees for ourselves. I have that feeling. It's about those POMS employees. But the Secretary of State rightly said that we should also frame it legally, before we could make some kind of generic gesture, whatever that might be. Otherwise, the consequences cannot be mapped out. That is also our job as a Chamber, along with the Secretary of State. And that is why I propose that we set up an external committee to present this question of legal framework for these POMS staff, and to advise the Secretary of State on this. Does the Secretary of State think that's a good idea? Mr. Chairman. Veterans deserve great thanks and respect. They risked their lives for our safety. In other countries, for example in the United States, social thanks are expressed differently on the streets than in the Netherlands, for example. The CDA actually gives our Dutch military that public gratitude. That is why I have a proposal for the Minister. Would the Minister like to set up a project in which Dutch and American veterans make an exchange? We can invite American veterans here to show how we are still grateful to their fallen colleagues, for example by visiting the military cemetery in Margraten. And Dutch soldiers can visit the United States, feel, experience and experience the way veterans are looked at on the other side of the lake. They could, for example, visit schools together in both countries in order to raise awareness among younger generations that freedom in the Netherlands and in the United States and in the world is not self-evident. Is the Minister prepared to think about setting up such a project, or to start with a pilot? During the corona period, military forces have made a strong effort in many places and functions in the Netherlands. The CDA is very grateful for that. 1,000 military personnel are trained and ready to take rapid tests at the seven new XL test locations. Greetings for our soldiers! They are committed to our safety here in the Netherlands, but also far away in missions, and they continue where others stop. In addition, COOVID-19 has had an impact on the training programmes. For example, many exemptions have been granted. How do we deal with this in the future, and what can and cannot we ask the military? Is that under consideration? The CDA is very concerned about the submarines. We also discussed this in detail yesterday, and we tabled a very nice motion to that effect, with Mr Stoffer as the first signatory. What the CDA is still asking is how we can deal with the value for export, because that didn't really come true in that discussion. If we say that the Dutch industry must have a very clear task in the manufacture of these submarines, then they must also be given an equal role vis-à-vis the main contractor. The CDA believes that this should be a condition for the award of the boats. So, Madam President, through you, the question to the cabinet: can we include that value for export in the award criteria? Or actually, how can we do that? 'Cause if we say, "can we do that?', Then the Secretary of State can answer "no" if she doesn't want to, but we want that to happen. How can we include export value in these award criteria? For a long time, this cabinet has allocated a large amount of money to Defense: a small 11.7 billion structuralally. Many material projects have been launched and a lot of staff have been employed. There was the establishment of the Defence Equipment Budget Fund and a solution to the currency problem was put forward. In doing so, the cabinet has fulfilled the ambition of the coalition agreement to make the Defence budget more predictable and shock-resistant. And the Defense Note kicked in the recovery, but it's not complete yet. There remain shortages for the current armed forces in the areas of personnel, IT, real estate, physical and social security, the maintenance of weapons systems, strategic stocks and operations, in order to restore the balance between support and combat units. There are some worrying developments in the Navy. One of the six mine hunters is going out of commission. A patrol ship won't be in maintenance for a while, the crew will be deployed elsewhere. And there's a stop to filling in civilian vacancies. The purchase of less spare parts is also at issue, and cancellation of certain exercises for the Marine Corps. The tight budget leads to painful measures. If this is also the case with other armies, the CDA's question is. The budget is too tight for the military in its present form. The military force of the future needs much more money, and this is evident from the Defence vision, which some of my colleagues have already discussed. With the current establishment and state of the Defence Organization, the military is not adequately equipped and properly equipped for the changing threats. Compliments for that vision. There is a big difference between that vision and the low-policy budget for 2021. The analysis of the security situation: radicalist terrorism on page 14, so I say to the PVV. Not in the margin, but if you look: right at the center of the page. Central to the page is the discussion on radicalismist terrorism, a ring of instability around Europe, Russia, China, Turkey, The Return of History, and the return of geopolitics, power politics, rapid technological developments, drones that are a game changer on the battlefield, and so on. Europe will have to take more responsibility for its own security. With Biden as president, too, the United States will ask for this, and rightly so. The vision of a stronger and more self-reliant Europe is right. For example, the cabinet is in favour of a strengthened military planning and implementation capacity, a kind of European military headquarters. This will enable the EU to act independently and strengthen the EU's capacity to act. It is also important to continue investing in PESCO and the European Defence Fund. The CDA welcomes the contribution made by the Ministry of EZK. This is important for the positioning of our industry and knowledge institutes. More European cooperation can only be achieved if the Netherlands has something to offer. You can't come in empty-handed. The CDA does question the ambition to further specialise within the EU and NATO. It amounts to the rejection of tasks, which must be taken over by others. We have to be careful with that. Task specialisation should never be an excuse for austerity. The Defence Vision itself points to the vulnerability of specialisation, i.e. if partnerships are not strong enough. Elsewhere in the Defence Vision, it is recognised that there is a division within trusted partnerships and the Minister holds on to a versatile military force, which can carry out all constitutional tasks properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u129	There is a question for you from Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u130	Maybe to correct something first: I understand that I just said Francien the Lion instead of De Zeeuw. So you're under the motion for Francien de Zeeuw, not The Lion. Then my question. It's about the future vision of Defense, because I hear you talking about it. I hear you say on the one hand that there should not really be any specialization, that you are afraid of that and that you fear that we can no longer do things with it. You are implicitly saying that we must continue to be able to do everything, on a good level. How much can that cost you? Because for the Defense Department, that would cost 16 billion extra structuralally. Are you willing to do that? And at the expense of what? Or perhaps you'd agree with me more? I say, let's ask the Ministry to come up with scenarios so that we can immediately make good choices for the formation for how that vision can roll out further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u131	The CDA is in favour of keeping a broad-based military force. This means, for example, that we are not in favour of abolishing the Navy, the Air Force, the Army or the Marechaussee, one of the four. We say: no, we must remain open to wide use. Besides, of course, you'll have to agree on tasks. For example, if we lease tanks from the Germans, we do not have to buy them ourselves. That is also an example of this. You could work that out more broadly in some kind of collaboration. We say: that sounds very nice, but be careful with that. Because when a partner doesn't meet the same requirements for this specialization, there will be a big gap. It's important to get ahead of that. You can say we have to specialize, and we're going to put that right now. But you're really gonna have to do that with all of us. So that's not gonna happen from today to tomorrow. The CDA remains in favour of a broad-based military force. How much does that cost, then, was the question. You say that's 16 billion. Well, that doesn't mean the vision. The vision says: if we want to do everything completely, completely, then we need to add that amount. But we can start the new form of Defense with any equal budget. So you can even... even though we wouldn't be doing anything about it right now, you could possibly start with a new way of working from the Defense Department, in addition to repairing the overdue maintenance, as Mr Van den Bosch rightly said. But...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u132	The answer should also be a little shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u133	Yeah, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u134	But how much can you take with you? How much extra can that cost? Then what's your scenario? I just heard you question my colleague on that 1.5% of the VVD. You were quite critical of that. You were a little shocked that they didn't want to go back to that 2%. Do you still want to go there? At the expense of what is that allowed for as far as you're concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u135	We'll go to that 2%. Luckily, I saw the VVD do the same. I thought the VVD was going for the European average, but he said: in the long term... I totally agree with you, because it does not go from today to tomorrow. So if you're at that 2% in 2030, it may cost us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u136	Very short closing words.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u137	At the expense of what? Because that was the second part of my question. What do you want to do less? Health care? Education? Higher taxes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u138	Yeah, that's gonna have to come from other things, because in the end you can say... we're investing more in health care every year now. You'd almost say we invest more in health care every year; if you did that structuralally in defense once, you'd be a long way away. So you'll still be able to put so much into education, so much into health care and so much into home security, but if our national security isn't settled, all the first three things are of no use to us. Our country's insurance company, we call that defence company, so we're gonna have to be worth something. At the moment we pay €1.75 per person per day for that security. For that money, for the €1.75 per person per day, we also send our women and men to the most dangerous areas for peace and security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u139	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u140	Mr. Chairman. The CDA says that NATO remains the cornerstone of our security policy. NATO also calls for more than recovery. The NATO Defence Planning Capacity Review from strong criticism of the Netherlands in terms of spending, but also in terms of what the Netherlands should deliver, and speaks of significant shortcomings in terms of impact and combat support, both qualitatively and quantitatively. That's harsh language. I filed a motion last year: continue to implement the national plan. This motion has not been carried out, and the Netherlands is far behind in meeting NATO agreements. We are in a shared 16th place in the European context of expenditure, together with Albania. Expenditure in the Netherlands is now 1.48%. The European average is 1.8%. By the way, we are threatening to go further down towards 2024. In order to comply with the NATO 2% gross domestic product standard, an additional 6.5 to 8 billion is needed. Furthermore, the Defence Vision estimated that a truly good modern military force would require a further 7 billion in structural terms. The CDA says in the draft programme: to the 2%, in the same ten years that I heard Mr Van den Bosch say. What does the Minister recommend to the parties on the basis of the vision? What is the Minister's advice to include in the programme on the basis of that vision? There is a vision now, but no plan yet, because the vision formulates a new profile of the Defence Organisation, with which it can also perform its tasks well in 2035. That's the thing. The development of which capacities or units are included, the how, is the next phase. That's also up to next Cabinets. There is therefore a great responsibility on the shoulders of politics. More priority is needed on the first main task, the defence of its own and its alliance territory. But the armed forces aren't equipped for that. The focus has been on missions for a quarter of a century. The armed forces cannot carry out their constitutional functions properly. The corona crisis makes it clear that the third main task has also become more important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u141	Mr Van den Bosch has a question for you. I would like to remind you that you were at least already by the speaking time you have devised in the first period. Then you won't get into a fight with your group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u142	Yeah, I'm gonna finish, but my screen says I have three minutes and 40 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u143	That's total time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u144	Oh, that's with the second term. Yeah, okay. You scared the shit out of me for a while!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u145	It's not that bad. Mr Van den Bosch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u146	I'd love to be at that fight for a while, but that's different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u147	My budget has already been. Don't worry!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u148	Can I now hear Mr Van Helvert say correctly: the CDA programme is going to the 2% standard in ten years' time? Did I hear you say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u149	Yes. Well, that's the draft election program now. I will not say out loud that I have contributed to this here and there, but I know that there are a number of amendments that will strengthen that. But that is why I said: in the end it comes down to what Mr Van den Bosch just said. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u150	That's taking other people's measurements. I'm not going to arm here, because I don't like that at all, but I would like to say one more thing about our election programme, including concept. It says: to the European NATO standard, in the next four years. And it also says: if there is more money left over in the next four years, we can move towards the 2% standard in those four years. That's a little faster than ten years anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u151	That's very good. I was shocked by the fact that you said the standard was now 1.8%, but you then recovered that it is also 2% for you. So that's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u152	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u153	I'm going to finish, Madam President. The reforms of Gaius Marius, of course, I must come back to Mr Van den Bosch, who had far-reaching consequences at the end of the second century BC, continuously to the first century, in such a way that the empire enjoyed them for centuries. That army was incredibly strong, generals had well-trained and disciplined armies, and the good pensions for veterans ensured that all provinces quickly integrated. I conclude with the call to hurry up with the Defence Staff Plan, to hurry up with the working group for the POMS staff and to move on with the question "It was just skipped" about the restoration of Dutchbat III. Can the Minister answer that? This is very important, but I cannot go into it any longer in relation to time. I call for a project to be set up for the exchange of veterans from the US and the Netherlands. And finally, real. The reform of Gaius Marius also had a disadvantage. The armies became increasingly loyal to their generals as a result of the reform rather than to the government itself. And that's because the generals took care of the great spoils through battles and exploiting the conquered territory. Well, of course we do not want that part in the Netherlands, I also say to Mr Van den Bosch. That is why the Chamber must ensure that there is a sufficient budget for the payments of the military. The Dutch people today announced in Clingendael's investigation that there is a broad willingness to spend more money on Defence. Let this be a call for all parties who are now making and amending their programmes. Like Piet de Jong, the Gaius Marius of the Low Countries, as an older gentleman who was still sane at the CDA Congress once cried out: there must be more money to Defense!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u154	Unfortunately, there is a very high degree of hypocrisy in Mr Van Helvert's speech, because he started by saying that soldiers often earn less or the same as students or people working in a social workplace. But that's what he says as a government party! You're responsible. You have had four years to improve this, but you simply did not. Then why don't you tell the honest story by telling all those soldiers that you just didn't choose to do this better yourself? You were responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u155	Mr Van Helvert, through me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u156	The fact that we hate that it hasn't been settled is absolutely true. But we did do something, I must say. And by the way more than the PVV, because he didn't want to spend so much money on it at all. We have made the money available. And that extra money went mainly to staff. What we had agreed was that the cabinet could work with this and that the payroll building would be delivered in July. That didn't work. You heard my clear criticism yesterday and also today. The Arbitration Committee also has a very clear criticism of this. So we'll share it. So that we are not happy that it has not yet been settled, we share that completely. Mr Fritsma says: you have done nothing. That's not true. We have made the money available that was much more money than the PVV made available and we have given the order. The implementation is indeed inadequate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u157	Implementation is inadequate, but, of course, politics must be judged on results. Now you're standing here empty-handed. You're empty-handed. You'll find that soldiers earn badly, worse than boxers. But you didn't deliver. And now you say, yes, it went wrong. That's easy to say, of course. You were responsible. That's how we remember the CDA. There's gonna be an election. As you can see, nothing has happened; it is being lifted over the elections. But the result is that these people are empty-handed because of the CDA. And that's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u158	No, that's really wrong. For example, if we had followed the PVV line, we would not have had half the budget for the staff. So not half of the budget that has now been made available. So we would have been even less far. And then it wouldn't have been settled, because then the negotiations would have had to take place with even less money. It was promised that the payroll building would be delivered in July. That was the deal. That wasn't delivered. We are also very upset about that. And the arbitration committee has also said that this is not good, it is also due to the employer and also to all participants, because they underestimated the process. But you can't tell the CDA you didn't do anything. For we have delivered more than double the money for the staff than what you would do. So let's say the PVV could have taken care of it. People would have been worse off than they are now. And now we know the budget is there. And the CDA says we're going to 2%. And what does the PVV say? It says 1.2% of gross domestic product. Less! So you want to make it worse in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u159	Mr. Chairman. I have news for Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u160	A short word for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u161	Yes, I have news for Mr Van Helvert. Of course, it's not just about how much money you have. It's about how you spend it. And that's where the CDA has only failed. We talked yesterday about the JSF, that flying Fyra. That thing can't even fly with thunderstorms. It's a miscarriage. Hundreds of flaws have been detected on that plane. That's where 5 billion goes. To a miscarriage! So you can say: the PVV has a little less money available for it. But that's not the point. The point is that you spent the money all wrong. Thanks to you, all the military have also been sent to sandbox missions...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u162	A short closing word... less short than I'd hoped.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u163	... which is of no use to us at all. The problem is, you failed, you left those people in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u164	Thank you. I am going to give Mr Van Helvert the floor. Shortly, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u165	We may, of course, disagree. That may be true, but we have to get the budget on top of it, otherwise we will have a bit of chat. First of all, the extra money we have provided has gone to the staff for the most part more than double than what the PVV wanted to deliver. In addition, we invested in the F-35s. If the PVV could choose the equipment, it would have to do with, if you compare it to cars, going to the store and buying a small Toyota. The CDA wants the best of the best when we send our people out. Those are the Formula One cars. If you are looking at Formula 1, then you also know that before a car can really drive a race, there are a lot of things going wrong, but eventually you will have the fastest and best car. That's what we want, too. The moment we send our people away with those F-35s, those test phases are all over, those exercises are over and those training sessions are over. Then we have the best plane for our people...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u166	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u167	...and not that little used Toyota the PVV wanted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u168	That concludes the interruption. Otherwise, it'll take me too long to make all the speeches.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u169	Can I respond to this or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u170	You have another interruption. You've just had two interruptions. You can post a new interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u171	Well, I guess I'll just finish it, Mr. Chairman, because I've rarely heard so much nonsense. Really rarely heard so much bullshit. What are you thinking about that Fyra, that flying Fyra...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u172	I'm gonna go... mr. Fritsma. Mr. Fritsma, may I say something?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u173	...that F-35 compares to a Formula One car?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u174	If the debate is heated, it's totally fine; I just like it, then it's really going through me. Now you go "yours and yours" against each other and that always makes it a little uglier. So you're gonna do both through me again, I'm gonna tell you both. Also against you, Mr. Van Helvert, because all of a sudden you forget it and I'm just gonna watch it again, especially when it gets a little more spicy. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u175	Certainly, Mr. Chairman, through you. That's neat, too. Surely Mr Van Helvert cannot make this comparison? If you want to compare it with cars: if Mr Van Helvert buys a car that is much more expensive than agreed, is delivered much later, can't drive with rain and thunderstorm, has hundreds of defects, does he call that a Formula 1 car? Don't make me laugh. You failed with that JSF. You threw away $5 billion of that. And yes, by making those kinds of wrong choices, chairman, soldiers are actually working for the salary of a fuller, and that's because of the CDA. Why don't you stop playing these childish games by putting it on other parties? You left those people in the cold. It would be a pleasure for you to acknowledge that. If you don't, you're just a hypocrite.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u176	It's beautiful drinking talk and of course it sounds like a bell. Rhetorically it's completely in order, except for the content, because it turns out that the PVV doesn't want to spend half of what the CDA wants to do on Defence personnel. So they were even worse off. The CDA has said: we want to invest in Defence, the extra money mainly goes to staff and we want a wage building. The payroll building isn't finished. That's what we're angry about. I think we can do that. And yes, in the end a brand-new high-tech thing must indeed be tested. By the way, they all fly, so how it's said they can never fly all the time? That's not true at all. Does anything ever go wrong? Yeah, things are definitely gonna go wrong, but we know that in advance. The moment the first F-35 arrived at Leeuwarden, we knew that we still had to try everything and that things would go well, but that things would also go wrong. They have to go wrong now, too, so we know what to do when we really, really have to be at the ball. If you say the F-35 is a bad device, you'll have to call me a plane in the world that's better than that, because we don't have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u177	Thank you. Mrs Karabulut has two more parts of her last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u178	One would almost ask: for example, what would Gaius Marius Helvetius think of these F-35s? My question is again about the staff, yet again about the employees who have fallen victim to chromium-6, toxic substances. The Secretary of State indicated yesterday, in response to suggestions made by us and others, that she should remain within the legal framework. You also just asked for legal advice or something. But what I would like to put to Mr Helvert through you, President, is whether Mr Van Helvert believes that, naturally under the responsibility of different rulers, Defence has complied with the rules towards these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u179	You mean at the time, by exposure to toxic substances? Yes. If you're going to look literally, you'll see that the terms of employment weren't fixed at that time. That's the downside. But morally, of course, you can't expose someone to poison. But the point is, we won't get anywhere if we look at it legally. That's exactly what we don't want to do. That's why you spoke to the people. That's what I did, by the way. I said: we are going to look and try to frame your situation as a very special and special thing, so that the cabinet cannot say that there is precedent. Because the moment we have a framed whole that we can do something for, there is no precedent. That's the objective I had. That's what I've been communicating with the people. That's what I'm trying to do now: frame it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u180	The answer is that the DOD has not complied with the legal frameworks. It's been acknowledged. The Department of Defense has not complied with the duty of care. Apologies were made for that. That is why I find the answer from the Secretary of State rather modest. I am actually looking for what you can make even more concrete about what this demarcation should yield when. Otherwise, the message at the moment, or perhaps the next six months or the coming months, is: we are going to look for the frameworks, because we have to change them, even though we have not kept to them ourselves. Then people still stand empty-handed. Could Mr Van Helvert make his expectations, the timetable and perhaps more details a little more concrete towards the rulers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u181	The danger is that I have already told Mrs Karabulut that you are going to the people and saying: it is really very bad what is happening here; I am going to make sure that you get that compensation. So I didn't. I have said to the people: I am very sorry for what has happened to you; I am going to see if it is possible to do something. I knew it wasn't one-two-three. That's why what I'm doing takes longer, but I'm sure I'll get a little further in the end. But it's gonna take a little longer. We'll have to frame something first and then you can talk about whether we can do something generic. The SP says, "guys, everybody's gotta get some." The SP writes a beautiful book about that, which I really appreciate. But the fact that the book is beautiful doesn't mean that people have been helped faster. I'm not so much focused on a beautiful book. I would prefer to say, "Let's see what is feasible; within that achievable, we have to make sure that we stretch as much as possible" so that people will ultimately benefit. That might take a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u182	But this was...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u183	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u184	...not my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u185	I know, but you've posted your interruptions. Have you finished your speech, Mr. Van Helvert?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u186	Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u187	Fine. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u188	I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut. She speaks on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u189	Mr. Chairman. In recent years, I have had the honour to speak on behalf of the SP Group on international politics and defence. What happens elsewhere in the world matters. What we do elsewhere in our name not only gets people in those countries far away, but also us, close by. Last week that became clear to me when I looked at a Nieuwsuur-reportage following David Van Reybrouck's investigation into our colonial past in Indonesia. In the war of independence, millions of Indonesians died of hunger and thirst. There have been massacres and lootings in our name. Mr. Chairman. I am very concerned about the defence budget of this cabinet. I am convinced that not peace policy and defence against potential enemies have become more central in the world and in our policy of recent years, but war. In today's jargon, we are talking about "joining in the highest spectrum of violence." The famous military strategist Von Clausewitz called war "politically by other means." I am of the kind that believes in a world without war, without poverty and without exploitation. War or participation in a war should be the very last resort to which we seize. Does the Minister share that? We should be happy to live in a democratic rule of law and a democracy that is under pressure, but gives us the freedom to conduct politics without bringing about war and peace. In view of the experience of the last 75 years and the period of war after the Second World War, is that not what we should now be pursuing more than ever, I ask the Minister? Not a Ministry of War, but a Ministry of Defense. No permanent warfare, but stop participating in permanent warfare. Not a new Cold War policy, but relaxation and de-escalation. It's not nuclear weapons and mass destruction, it's disarmament. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the Defence vision recently presented by the Minister as a legacy. To fall directly into the house: does the Minister share my observation that the vision is only a wild fantasy? A newly elected Chamber and Government should not talk about an additional EUR 13 billion to EUR 17 billion per year for arms, but about the release of the 2% standard imposed on us by NATO. The Minister tweeted today that half of the Netherlands wants more money for Defense. It's a round-up. It appears that 55% of the Netherlands does not want an increase in the Defence budget. That's today's good news. Can the Minister understand that not extra billions with the side effect of contributing to an arms race should be the goal, but that there should be thought and talk about what security means to us and that we should look for a new security architecture? I'd like a response. Worldwide, over a million people have died from covid in the last year. A multiple is seriously ill. Many countries have been dislocated. Nevertheless, leaders of large countries are fighting for more military weapons, new wars and the modernisation of weapons of mass destruction. Does the Minister share the view that this is the wrong priority? Since March of this year, aid to civil society, as it is called, has suddenly been needed as a result of covid. Defense, or the Minister, is actually doing a little tough about the stakes offered. But is the Minister also prepared to admit that this necessary effort has been slow to take place and that the third main task of the Defence Department might be a little bit more difficult? Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the other achievements in the field of defence of the third Rutte cabinet. I'm on staff. "Staff on 1" was the promise. One of the most important achievements is the Defence Equipment Fund of no less than 45 billion for the next fifteen years. For 2021, next year, 4.6 billion is available. These means are used to buy expensive weapons systems to keep fighting in the highest spectrum of violence. In recent years, the military-industrial complex has enjoyed the world and this type of armament. While the weapons fund is filled, the Defense Organization isn't doing very well at all. The staff to carry out all the arms projects is simply not there. The standard for the filling rate for military is 90%, but in practice it varies from 77% to 78%. How is that possible? There's more people leaving than coming in. That's not going to happen, apparently not because of the pandemic. How? That brings me to the second personal point. The freedom of expression of military personnel is under pressure from a renewed designation called SG A/978. There is growing unrest among military personnel about this. The designation limits military freedom in their publication, and in their contacts with journalists and representatives of the people. With that, it also limits us in contact with military. And Mr President, I do not need to explain to you, the President of this Chamber, how much that has been necessary to enforce another promise, namely on transparency, openness, honesty and truth. Yesterday, following the discussion we had in a legislative consultation, the Minister stated that the designation will expire as soon as the Ministry of the Interior presents a national arrangement. When exactly is that? Yesterday's commitment was too vague and the motion tabled was totally inadequate. I urge you to withdraw the lead immediately. I'd like to hear a response. Mr. Chairman. A third point on human rights issues. There must be a generic compensation scheme for defence workers who have had to work for years with chromium-6 and many other toxic substances, and for their survivors. The Secretary of State said yesterday that everything had to fit into the legal framework. But has the DOD been working within the legal framework of duty of care and the application of safe working for all these decades? Has all this happened within the legal framework? The answer is straightforward: no! The apology and existing bureaucratic arrangements are not enough. The sick staff is tarnished with this type of talk. If there is money for fighter jets, why is there no justice for the sprayers, the office workers and the workers at the base? I appeal urgently to the rulers and, in fact, to everyone here to take care of this. Not just "staff on one," but correcting this gigantic injustice while we still can. This brings me to a second promise and/or achievement of the cabinet: transparency in the field of defence. I must congratulate the Minister for Defence, because I have to admit that for the first time a sitting minister has admitted that there are nuclear weapons in Volkel. I say this not out of joy with the nuclear weapons, but out of joy with the transparency of the Minister. This is clearly a breakthrough. It is clearly a breakthrough in the Minister's attitude to admit it, something that has been a public secret for many years. There are nuclear weapons on Volkel and the Air Force is practicing them. We are now halfway through with transparency. Does the Minister share the view that this is contrary to the Non-Proliferation Treaty? Is the Minister also prepared to stop Dutch participation in the follow-up to this exercise for this reason? Is the Minister also prepared to make a plea for the signing of the International Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons? Mr. Chairman. Two weeks ago, the Australian military issued an astonishing report on crimes committed by two commandos. In response to his book Unpredictable past, Dutch military Nikko Norte tells the story of a Dutch soldier who shot innocent, unarmed people and only realized what he had done at home. Until he came home, he had been so convinced that he was fighting against the enemy. Does the Minister share the conclusion that research into Dutch history in Afghanistan is necessary? I would like to call on her to be transparent on this point too. This brings me to the Hawiwa case, the terrible bombing of Hawija, where transparency has been enforced and where we are still looking for the whole truth and nothing but the truth. In the meantime, a committee has been set up to carry out a study on this subject. I don't know who appointed it, or whether Mrs Sorgbearer was the minister or someone else. But why are there two representatives from international military aviation who have spoken positively about the way the Netherlands acted in Hawija? Why should they be part of this committee? Are the objectivity and the importance of objectivity thereby guaranteed? Mr. Chairman. Army components that collect intelligence, carry out threat analyses of domestic hazards or hostility and also fight domestic threats are out of line. I'm talking about the LIMC, which even with a book by a colleague of ours, Jesse Klaver, was practicing spying on their own citizens. It stopped. Can the Minister promise that this will never happen again? I come to a conclusion, Mr President. I'm going back to the history and work of Reybrouck. An old Indonesian eyewitness who spoke to Van Reybrouck said in response to the question what he wanted to say to the Dutch: "I really don't want to say anything more. Guard the peace. Don't make a war. That's all."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u190	Thank you. I should now like to give the floor to Mrs Belhaj of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u191	Mr. Chairman. This is the last budget debate in this period. It's a good time to take stock. Which route do we sail? Are we on course or do we have to change course? Before I go into that, I focus on actuality. In a recent newspaper article in the NRC last Saturday, new facts came up about the bombing of Hawija. In January, the independent committee will begin its work. I would like to ask the Minister to what extent the newly published information on the information position of, among other things, the Netherlands is involved in that independent investigation. Mr. Chairman. On Friday, a first explanation was sent to the Chamber about the shocking activities of the Land Information Manoeuvre Centre (LIMC). Frankly, this answer did not reassure me at all. Among other things, the Minister writes that the law is taken as a starting point. We find that very special. Since there is a difference between a starting point, a directive and a framework, I have the following questions. Did the Minister know about the existence of the LIMC? If so, did it authorise the activities of the LIMC itself? If the Minister knew about the existence of the LIMC, why did she not stop the activities of the LIMC until now, when there is no mandate and no request from the civil services? In addition, I wonder why only research is being carried out into compliance with the GDPR and not out of the legal remit of the Defense Department. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Let's move on to the main lines. As usual, there is good news and bad news. Let me start with the bad news. In recent years, we have faced completely new threats. The modern enemy has found new ways to deceive us and outsmart us. Often unexpected and less visible, with suddenly popping army men or online hacking into our systems. With covid our health has suddenly become a prominent safety theme. New dangers on unknown front lines: we have to find the answer to that on the left or right. Which brings me to the good news. We see the importance of cooperation and unity throughout Europe. Everyone talks about: different opinion makers, strategists, respectable advisory councils of the government, but also friendly government leaders such as Angela Merkel and Emmanuel Macron. The Clingendael Barometer also shows today that most Dutch people are looking at the European Union for security and defence in 2020. 72% of those questioned believe that Europe should be able to act independently without the support of the United States. What is also striking is that I can recommend to my fellow Members what the various supporters of the different political parties say about this. Even 58% of the SGP thinks that this is a good idea, 60% of the PVV, 57% of those who are not now a Forum for Democracy, 80% of the CDA. That promises a lot for the years to come. Mr. Chairman. It makes me proud that I wrote an own-initiative paper on this subject exactly two years ago. Then it is good to see that consensus has now emerged on strategic autonomy and geopolitical independence: not playing the game but playing the game. At home and abroad, people are crying from left to right: the European Union must have its military backs. That's good news. Everyone understands that these new threats are so big, so diverse and so complicated, they can only be dealt with if we work together in Europe and involve everyone and everything. D66 is convinced that the Netherlands should participate in this European trend in the coming years and not remain the country of "a little." From "a little new material, a little new staff, a little contribution to a mission." Of course steps have been taken, and I would like to express my appreciation for the hard work of these two rulers and their efforts to get the basis in order. There is often talk of difficult choices. Do we choose real estate or not for the equipment? After all, you can't do everything. Yet I do not get the impression that there are really difficult choices made. Everything stayed a bit with a little bit. Defense is, as it were, a warship armed above deck drones but still under deck updating Windows XP. Mr. Chairman. Everyone is looking forward to the Defence vision 2035. That is where the strategy would be determined, there came the route, that vision for a balanced military force. But can we speak of a vision if no hard choices are made? Let's face it, these tough choices are gonna be on the board of a next minister or secretary of state. I have two questions about this. Does the Minister agree with me that this vision is an all-in-one? Mr. Chairman. I'd like to use a quote from military historian and former teacher of mine, Christ Klep. What he said in the newspaper about the Defence Vision was very striking: "The problem is that everything in it is seen as a threat. How can you focus? The Ministry of Defense is like an oil tanker, without making choices it is powerless." The Defence Vision is indeed talking about incredibly many threats. One by one trouble coming at us and the armed forces should focus on it. With ten set-up principles, the Defence Vision seems to have a solution for everything and speaks of one-one. We're gonna do anything. Mr. Chairman. The threats described are undoubtedly true, but the question is how realistic it is that the Netherlands can fight all these threats itself. Is it not obvious, with a small military force embedded in two powerful alliances, namely the European Union and NATO, to ask what choices the military must make? Where, for example, are we not going to invest in the next decade? And what threats can the Netherlands bring the most added value to the European Union's Common Security and Defence Policy? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The Defence vision also states that we are firmly committed to a Europe, and therefore an EU, which takes responsibility, including in the military field. As I said earlier, it is clear that almost all European countries have opted for European defence cooperation. European cooperation on defence is suddenly also included in almost all the electoral programmes to be found in this house. That's a good first step. I would therefore like to congratulate everyone on this. That brings us logically to the following choices. Which task specialization suits the Netherlands best? What should the Netherlands specialise in over the next decade, according to the Minister? What defence sectors would the Minister wish to reject and have carried out by other allies? When you look at the armed forces like that, difficult choices suddenly get a lot easier. Far-reaching cooperation with European allies means that you don't have to do everything on your own anymore, or do a little bit. You stand shoulder to shoulder, you divide the tasks and you split the costs. It's like going Dutch. Does the Minister agree with me that far-reaching European cooperation in all defence areas will solve a large number of shortages and problems of the Dutch armed forces? If not, why not? At a time when the armed forces are being thoroughly renovated, the consensus for European unity comes as called for. We are now at a crossroads: either we keep thinking small and national and we do everything a little bit, or we take off those national glasses and take on this outstretched European hand. In other words, do we continue to float in American water, or are we going in the direction of that ferocious European wind?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u192	There is a question for you from Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u193	That was a plea to my heart: making choices and working together in Europe. I think you are right to ask the Minister what choices are included. Perhaps you will also support my call for 'now make sure that there is a strategic exploration of the choices we can make for the next formation'. Do you have any ideas about what we should and above all should not go for? What is the Netherlands strong at? Do you have a picture of that yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u194	Yeah, I've definitely thought about that. Perhaps there will also be a motion in the second term. I actually came to the following conclusion. It's not hard to say "we choose the Navy" or "we choose the Air Force," but it's a question of whether it's wise to put it down in a one-dimensional way if you haven't determined in advance what alliance you can put other things into. If you decide that on your own and haven't aligned, or if, for example, it turns out that you're going to focus on something that ten other countries are going to focus on, that's a nice thing to do, but that's not smart. That's why I don't want to play Commander of the Armed Forces here. I don't mean that he plays that, but I mean that I would play that as a politician. I want to leave that to those who know it. That is why I am now asking the Minister this question, because perhaps you can tell us what choices you are making on the basis of everything that lies ahead. It is then a question of which threat is best addressed realistically and in which cooperation you can do so. That will automatically result from the fact that you may need planes or ships. You may also need different elements to address a threat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u195	Yeah, that's right. I can assure you that it is not so easy to make those choices. It's really quite a work to come to those choices. I've been trying to bring you a piece of it into my term. I think I would particularly like to invite you to support my plea for these strategic options and to call on these leaders to do so. Then we really have for the formation those choices and can talk with those allies with a basket under the arm. Then we in Europe can get on the farm and say: 'We are good at this. We're strong at this. We can do this within alliances. This is what we need in the Caribbean. Let's talk to each other about how we can strengthen each other." I think there are more parties here calling for this. I believe that your plea to that effect has so far been the most far-reaching. So let's try to have those options on the table for the formation and pull them together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u196	That's a very nice invitation. I would like to respond with an invitation to Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen not to act as Commander of the Armed Forces. "With a basket" sounds very cute, of course. Unfortunately, I haven't read the new note from GroenLinks yet, but I think it starts with the questions I just asked the Minister. That is a very important basis. Which of the threats do you think you can address? What do you need for that? Is it realistic that you have it or are there other countries that can do it? And if you have that overview, does that result from what you have to focus on? That also seems much more pleasant for a military force than they think: yes, but that Belhaj is very pro Navy; it is logical that she says that the Navy should stay above all. I think we should avoid that. But let's see what the minister says about it, and then working together is always good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u197	A basket is not so cute; it is mainly reasoning from its own strength. And I think that's something the Netherlands can do very well. We have a lot of strength and a lot of strength and we have a strong naval tradition. I think we are also very good at cyber and so we can also make choices from strength instead of cuteness.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u198	Sure, although cuteness can also have a function. But if you make those choices without making the right choice for the threat you want to address, you may make the choices with all good intentions but ultimately do not address those threats. Mr. Chairman. I would've stayed with the next one. That is the great choice before us: so choose this firm European wind instead of floating in American waters. But what can we do today to sharpen that new course? Major steps are already being taken in the European Union. With the European Peace Facility, we have the budget for operational actions and so we can really get something going. The High Representative is now a full member of the European Commission and therefore has a lot more political power. In addition, there is also hard work on the strategic compass. This instrument will be the guiding principle of European security policy and will strengthen coherence and synergy between the various initiatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u199	There is a question for you from Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u200	Yeah, just a few more moments about European cooperation. You say you're very happy about that. You also mentioned the grassroots groups of different parties who are in favour of more independent action by Europe, without the United States. On almost every mission we do now, whether within Europe or on the edges of Europe or Afghanistan or Iraq, we all do the larger missions together with the United States. We visited Afghanistan with the committee. There the Dutch army says very clearly: we can never do this without the commitment of the United States. So if we're gonna do that alone, we're gonna have to do it much stronger. Then we will have to do a little more there than what the United States is doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u201	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u202	When I look at the D66 election programme, D66 says: we want the European average. That calls D66 itself 1.43%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u203	That was...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u204	That's a little less than it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u205	And your question? Come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u206	Then my question is: how can we act without the United States, so take over what the United States is doing, if D66 wants to spend even less than now on Defense?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u207	D66 has an internal member democracy. That means that Members have the last word. There have been 1,000 amendments tabled at the last congress. That's really great to see. We give members the opportunity to exercise influence. It has also emerged that the designation of 1.43% is actually a kind of omission, because a European average can change. What we are saying, and what we said last time, is: at least aim for the European defence average. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u208	That's nice. I know party democracy. It is also very logical that amendments can change anything. I only welcome that; so do we. Even so. So if we want to take over the whole task of the United States, so everything they do now on missions, then we really need to do something more than a European average. This means that we are doing something about what Europe is already doing, and Europe is actually doing almost everything with the help of the United States. So how can you argue that we should operate without the United States, when we simply continue to spend what we are spending now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u209	Yes, that is a very good question from Mr Van Helvert. But what I always find fascinating is that selective hearing. And that's a bit of a shame, because after a few years, you're hoping it'll stop a little bit. When I say 'European armed forces' or 'European defence cooperation', there are always people like you who hear 'We must do so without the Americans'. I didn't say that. I have clearly indicated that you will continue to have NATO, but it is also clear that it is nonsense to keep doing the same thing as national countries within the European Union, to continue spending too much money on the same kind of start-up costs in development and to be all so stupid to do small missions because your armed forces are too small. The strength lies in joint missions, a joint budget in the European Union, that can speak together and make a joint fist to all those superpowers you regularly speak of from your foreign spokesmanship. That's what it's about. When you say you want to get stronger in something, it doesn't necessarily mean you want to get weaker in something. That's not how it works in my world. The cake's getting bigger. He doesn't have to get smaller.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u210	Mr. Van Helvert, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u211	Then I get it. I was distracted because you were so keen on... you mentioned all the parties and the supporters who would like to act without the United States. Then I thought, "Okay, great, but what's D66's bet?" It's clear now. It is also allowed with the United States. I think that would be very nice, too. The CDA believes that it is precisely with the European countries and the United States that you could step up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u212	Yeah, that's obvious. The position of the Clingendael report was indeed that Europe should be able to act independently without the support of the United States. It clearly says "must be capable." That is not the issue at the moment, but fortunately very good steps are being taken, fortunately also with the support of many political parties, national in this Parliament, but then represented in the European groups. Mr. Chairman. I would have stayed at the compass. It's not finished yet. That makes it difficult to sail the right course. I have two questions for the Minister. How will the Minister ensure greater coherence and synergy before the strategic compass is completed? What is the Minister's view of the strategic compass and how does it translate it into the Dutch commitment to the forthcoming strategic dialogue? Mr President, I will conclude. Our armed forces deserve hard choices; our people, in particular, deserve that. Only in this way will we achieve a specialized, balanced military force, as part of the larger European team. So step away from doing a bit in the Netherlands and go for something all the way in Europe. Yesterday I talked extensively about Rotterdam, so I can now easily quote a celebrated Amsterdam philosopher. He once asked a simple question. What would you prefer? A good eleven or eleven good ones? I think we all know what the answer is. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u213	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Kerstens of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u214	Thank you, Mr President. It's the second time we've talked about defense in the Chamber this week, and it's only Tuesday. Yesterday we had the legislative consultation and today and Thursday we had the budget debate. As far as I am concerned, this legislative consultation was primarily directed at the people of the defence sector, because they deserve it, and that is what is urgently needed. As far as I am concerned, the motto "the people on 1" with which you were thrown to death at the beginning of this cabinet period and what you hardly hear anymore is still in force. The people are the capital of the Defense Department. The men and women of our armed forces stand in the Netherlands and elsewhere in the world, sometimes at risk for their own lives, for our security, for our freedom and for those of our children. They deserve more appreciation, starting with their own employer. Yesterday I made a number of concrete proposals for this too. I made these proposals for the people who are now working for the Defense Department in terms of the better wage building, which really needs to be put in place, and for those who have worked in the Defense Department, from the chromium-6 victims who are still waiting for justice to the retired soldiers who sometimes miss thousands of euros up to their AOW. Today I make two proposals in the area of staff. The first proposal is to develop a master plan staff. I've been over that before. Which people should we have when, where and in what numbers? How do we get them in and how do we keep them in? How and at what rate do we grow to the desired situation and what financial resources do we need and are available? I think there is a real need for one plan in which the Defence Department sets out its views on personnel and how it intends to implement it. This does more justice to the great strategic importance of the issue that we have actually been discussing throughout this cabinet period. It offers the opportunity to focus, to shape multi-annual policies and to talk more meaningfully about their progress here in the Chamber. What it does, above all, is offer perspective to the people and to their organization. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The second proposal, Mr President. At the request of the Labour Party, the cabinet is allocating EUR 300 million for a so-called job guarantee for those who lose their jobs because of the corona crisis; a job guarantee so that they do not become unemployed with all the misery they cause, but are helped to a sector where there is work. Defense is such a sector. We heard yesterday that Defense is already being approached by companies and sectors. I'd like Defense to be at the front of that bag of money, of course, but especially when welcoming new people with open arms. Does the DOD have a concrete plan for that? That's my question. If not, how soon can that be? 'Cause I don't think we should let this opportunity pass. Mr. Chairman. Then the vision of Defense: long expected and not come. That is the tone of many comments, so left and right. From the beginning of this cabinet period, the review of the vision had been announced, but I do not see exactly what this review is made up of; and not just me. With all due respect to all the people of Defense who have worked hard on that, I share their threat and problem analyses. I didn't count it, but I have the feeling that the phrase "the next cabinet" is the phrase that is most common in this document. In that respect, it is a bit the "people on 1" from the Defence Note a few years ago. Mr. Chairman. Some have called it a grabbelton and others a wish list. It reminds me of the first time I asked my son to make a wish list. What I found in his shoe that night was actually the entire Intertoysfolder. He is now 8 and has said that this is the last year that he still believes in Saint Nicholas. What is really new about this vision, I ask the Minister? To what extent is it also aligned with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? For for the Labour Party this cooperation is very important. What choices are really being made and what real choices have been made in the past period? Or was it a bit of a shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shop-shows what went wrong and why? Mr President, I am going to conclude. I have two further points to make. At the beginning of November, the Veteran Ombudsman again released the monitor complaint treatment Defense. Once again, he wipes out that my words are'my way of dealing with complaints to the Defense Department'. After all the previous excuses and promises, after previous letters from the Ombudsman, in fact at every level, the same Ombudsman says. His conclusion is that the highest leadership of the Defense Department should now really opt unconditionally for a professional complaint treatment that takes people and their complaints seriously, trying to solve the problem and not to win a battle. And what does the Minister do? She writes a short note to the Ombudsman saying that she is sending the youngest servant by. You can't do that! This repeated signal of what is still the authority in the Netherlands in this area must be taken more seriously by the Minister with regard to the PvdA. How is she gonna do that? Finally, Mr President, the way in which the regime for widows and children of men who were then executed by the Dutch army in the fight for Indonesia's independence is being implemented. Now that it has taken so many years for a regulation to come into being and now that it itself provides for a sum of €5,000 that the loss of your husband or father cannot, of course, make up for a long time, it seems that we can come up with nothing but to deny, in the end, almost all right holders of that compensation, that right, because they are late or because their request has not been made within a reasonable period of time. That goes against my sense of justice in calling on the Minister to amend this arrangement together with her foreign colleague. We should be ashamed of ourselves as after all this time, so the situation is now, but three children whose father was sometimes slaughtered before their eyes are eligible for that benefit. Do something about that, I'll tell the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u215	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has not yet been referred to by others, but we are still considering this year that it is 75 years since we were liberated. We have, of course, paid attention to this here and there, the rulers certainly, but I think again because it is not self-evident. We also see peace and security under pressure in many places in the world. I just read that in Trier, in West Germany, there was an attack by a driver of a car hit by pedestrians. We do not know exactly whether that was a terrorist attack or not, but at least it is horrible. And we know about other terrorist attacks in Europe. We have, of course, seen a horrible war in Nagorno-Karabakh and surrounding provinces, of a NATO ally who was actively involved. We have also discussed with each other in detail earlier in the Foreign Affairs budget how this can happen within a military alliance, where we stand for values such as freedom and respect for each other. On this point, I would like to ask the Minister if she would insist that Azeris at least want to release the prisoners of war to Armenia, because I understand that they are still being held, which is not in accordance with the agreement that has been concluded. Can the Minister respond to that? Mr. Chairman. Those threats are there. At the same time, we see that, fortunately, in the last four years, the Defense Department has been getting more money. These rulers have also made good use of it, at least to invest in equipment. A Defence Equipment Budget Fund has been launched. Mrs Belhaj and I have taken the initiative, and the rulers have submitted a law to that effect. In any case, this will give us some peace for the coming years in order to invest structurally decently in equipment. At the same time, we see that the readiness has not yet been restored. Defence is still unable to carry out the first main constitutional task, namely the defence of our own territory. Crucial to that, and I say it again: crucial is: investing in staff. This evening, in particular, I will focus on the lack of specialised staff. The situation with regard to our military apparatus is becoming increasingly complicated, the weapons are becoming more complicated. That also requires a lot more of our staff. And we see that at the moment we are looking at even around 9,000 vacancies. Of course, covid isn't helping either, I understand that. This is also cited by the Secretary of State. But we look at a very big hole, when the need is so great in the world. The shortage of personnel may remain the biggest problem in the defense. Because what good is a lot of equipment if we don't have a good staff? Without people, that very beautiful equipment is no use to you. There's still more people out than that coming in. I believe that is what Mrs Karabulut said. DOD has enough expertise in the house, but do we have enough expertise to prepare even the submarines we want to buy? In companies it is sometimes desired, and sometimes it is done, to buy people away. Is the DOD planning to buy out good personnel from the business community? There are shipyards that have to reject personnel. Is that what you're looking at? And it has already been mentioned, I believe by Mr Van Helvert, that we would be presented with a new wage building on 1 July. How's that going? It's been called arbitration. We really need it to get to that new pay house. If we hear from Major Van Leeuwen that sergeants are even on the poverty line, then we really need to look at the new wage building. For we must have a strong defence apparatus, but that must do justice to a responsible wage building. I'm asking the Secretary of State, when is this promised payroll gonna come? Shouldn't there be more resources to get sufficient qualified staff? I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State on that point. Mr. Chairman. Then the equipment, the submarines. It is a pity that the cabinet has decided, and I understand the procedural reasons for this, that we are no longer able to decide on the new submarines during this cabinet period. That leaves the cabinet to another cabinet. I would like to stress once again that Dutch knowledge and skills and the Dutch industry should be involved as much as possible in a decision. I really hope there will be a decision soon. It would be very nice for the province of Zeeland if we could have that built in Vlissingen. But the strategic importance of maintaining that knowledge and skills in the Netherlands is perhaps even more important. That is why I agree with what Mr Stoffer is going to say. He may not know that himself, but he will undoubtedly also say a number of things about the strategic importance of purchasing the submarines. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm gonna take a look at the clock, the Defense Vision. I am very pleased that the rulers have presented the Defence Vision 2035. Compliments for looking forward to so many years in the future. We are discussing what we need precisely if we want to have a responsible defence apparatus, including in the new relationship with America that we now have with us. I note, however, that NATO notes that there is still a lack in the Netherlands in terms of impact and operational support. In concrete terms, NATO is calling for a fully mechanized brigade. How's that going? Finally, Mr President, the Herwijnen radar station. As a group, we attach great importance to listening carefully to the wishes and to looking closely at the health of the people in Herwijnen. We tabled a motion in the previous debate, Mr Van Helvert, which led us to look again at the alternatives, not only in terms of health but also in terms of the height of the radar. I await the Secretary of State's response to that point. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u217	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP, on the submarines.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u218	Yes, Mr. Chairman, the bar is high. Anyway, let me do two things before I start my lines. The first. Like Mr Van Nieuwenhuijzen, I have something to correct: it had to be Francien de Zeeuw. That's gonna be the frigate, I understand. I think that's okay. Then we'll come up with another name, Mr. Van Nieuwenhuijzen, for that submarine. Then I did justice to what Mr Voordewind said. I said something about submarines, but I'll leave it at that, because last night was enough. There's a nice motion coming up. We're gonna put it to the vote on Tuesday. You co-signed it, Mr. Voordewind, so I think it's gonna be all right. Mr. Chairman. I have very little time, so I'll go right to the rest of my text, otherwise it won't work. Here's the thing. Not only people, of course, I was also talking about human beings, but also fighter planes are often divided into generations. That first generation, from around World War II, was just the slowest. The second generation was still less advanced, but already supersonic. And the third and fourth generation, including the F-16, became smarter and more effective. Meanwhile we have arrived at the fifth generation of fighter planes. They are full of all kinds of technology, but the beauty of it is that the F-35 is now on mission in their own country. So, yeah, I'm just proud of that F-35, I'd like to say that here again, just like on those submarines that are coming. There is even talk of a sixth generation, smart and digital, where even a crew is optional. I could say a lot more about it, but I'll leave it at that. Mr. Chairman. I want to talk about the Defense Vision 2035. I just mentioned the examples of those fighter planes, because it symbolizes how fast the Defense Department has to run to stay on time. It is precisely on this challenge that the Defence vision 2035 formulates the answer. The vision says what is needed: a smart, technological, high-quality and specialised defence. But then, of course, the question arises of how we do it, how we do it. Of course, this vision is also in the name of'says not too much, but my question is: when will there be some kind of performance story? Because we can keep each other busy with discussions and intentions for a long time, but we can't win a war with them. So please also give an answer to what the follow-up steps are. As far as I am concerned, this also starts with the budget. Then I would say: let the Netherlands take an example of Sweden, because that country was wise enough to increase the defence budget by 40% recently. Not bad, considering the security threats and the impact of COVID-19. Many European NATO countries also lead the Netherlands. Does the Netherlands have to be the gate closer? So I would say: let's all, Chamberwide, put our hands on it so that by 2030 at the latest, that is much later than the international agreement, but 2024 is not realistic anymore, that NATO standard of 2% of GDP is simply strong. My question to the Minister is what steps it intends to take in the coming months. And is the Minister prepared to examine whether this target standard should be laid down in the Defence Equipment Fund Act? I would very much like a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u219	There's an interruption for you from Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u220	It is a credit to Mr Stoffer that he insists on this 2% standard. I do wonder whether Mr Stoffer is aware of the fact that if your gross national product drops, you will get 2% faster. If, for example, nothing is added and the gross national product falls next year, are you glad that it has been achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u221	Well, not for two reasons. One. It would not be good for our economy if that GDP were to fall. So, in that respect, I say that we need to work to increase that. But the second is that it was actually in Mr Van Helvert's story that we can arrange all things in this country, but the basic condition is that it is safe here. For the SGP, that is why we say: our defence must be in order. That includes resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u222	That wasn't my question. Mr Stoffer says where he can: that 2%, that 2%, we have to get it. You may get that 2%, but the armed forces aren't getting anywhere with it at all. The reason I'm always a bit averse to that 2%, apart from the fact that the Prime Minister signed it somewhere in Wales, without coming here to the Chamber and saying he signed a check that would add 10 billion a year to the Defense Department... You're not involved. I'm not involved in that. That is something in itself, given the budgetary rights of this Chamber, which I simply call a disgrace and which should never happen again in that way. But that 2% obsession actually means that it's not about what you want to talk about anymore: what does the military need, exactly as it says in the Defence Vision, and what is realistic to do as a small country in the end? Isn't that a much more interesting discussion than you with the 2%? 'Cause next year, you could just make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u223	It would be a disaster for the Netherlands if we achieved 2% next year. But then we have to look further, because then I come to the story that Mr Van Helvert also held: that security is a basic condition. And of course it doesn't help you to just name 2% without hanging underneath it. But now look at that Defense vision 2035. That's a good vision, I must say. You can also see amounts in it. Then you can see that with that 2%, if you really want to do it right, we're still short. There are also absolute amounts in it. But that 20 billion, where it's about to go to that 2%, is where we need to go. Maybe it'll get a little over 2% one time and another time underneath. On average, you're on it. But we're talking about a good defense. I think 2% is a nice size. We're a long way from here. Let me tell you: I hope that our economy is not going so badly that we will have to say that we are already there with the amount we are putting into Defence. I do not believe that either, because our economy is so resilient that it will really start to live up again. I have every confidence in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u224	Mrs Belhaj, finally, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u225	It's really turning around a little bit. I think that's a little faint. If Mr Stoffer so often calls that 2% and it turns out that that 2% can be achieved without a penny, then you can just say that here. Then you say that 2% was perhaps in the run-up and discussion about more money for Defence, but it doesn't really make sense, because it's much better what happened in the Defence Vision now; you say what you need as a military force and there are just certain amounts attached to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u226	Firstly, I agree that we say that these amounts depend on them. That's good. Secondly, I am holding on to that 2%, because I do not believe that with the current amount we spend in the defence sector, we will ever reach that 2%. I have faith in the Dutch economy. I think that, as the Netherlands, we are going to have a much better GDP. But on the substance, I agree: the Defence vision says that you're still short by 20 billion. But you can't go on infinitely. So as far as I'm concerned, at some point, you have to say, "That's where we're gonna end it." If D66 wants to table a motion with me and says "let's just really implement that whole budget for Defense that's needed in 2030," I'd like to talk about it sometime. Then we have to take a good look at what other things are going to be at the expense of that. I call education, care, and so on. But there's talk to me about it. So I'd like to study that together tomorrow. I see Mr Van Helvert standing there. I'm sure he wants to, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u227	Moving on to Mrs Belhaj's interruption. She actually says that 2% is not the number of D66, that's something of the Prime Minister's. She says it's not ours, so we don't have anything to do with that number. Does Mr Stoffer agree with me that this 2% is not just a figure that has come out of the sky, but that it is a figure that has been rolled out on the basis of the obligations you have at the time you say: I am a member of NATO and I must also contribute?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u228	My answer to that may be very brief. I agree. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u229	Okay. Mrs Belhaj says that that number is not mine, that is Rutte's; I did not say that, we do not have to contribute it. Do you agree with me that if you say that you don't like that number, you should actually say: then I don't like NATO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u230	That is, of course, an interesting vision. Then I think: actually, you do say that in so many words. But I hope Mrs Belhaj says: no, I do. Anyway, I'll get that in a minute. There may well be an interruption following the one who committed the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u231	In conclusion, I would like to say a few words about Mr Stoffer's question by Mrs Belhaj. If Mrs Belhaj asks you and me all the time where we pay that 2% of it, is it not right to ask her: where are you going to pay that 1.8% of it? Because that's a lot more than it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u232	That is a question which I think Mr Van Helvert should put to Mrs Belhaj. The questions don't go through me. It's through the chairman. I'm not gonna make it that complicated, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u233	But I'm going to unravel it, because Mrs Belhaj probably has a point of order, because she was asked something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u234	Thank you for this unusual form of debate, but I really hate it when words are put down in the wrong way. I said that the Prime Minister signed for that 2%. If you're gonna sign for that, you're gonna have to make sure you have commitment from the Chamber. He didn't. That's what I blame him for. Then it's just a blank. You just say mwah, fine, 10 billion; oh yes, Room, I've signed for 10 billion a year. We're not involved. That's what I'm grumpy about. In addition, I was grumpy about the fact that you, Mr Stoffer, with the help of Mr Van Helvert, all the time suggesting: if you are not for that 2%, then you are against NATO. That's just bullshit. I didn't say that. I told you to stop yelling that it's 2%, when you know it just means nothing and doesn't mean anything, and that the Defence vision that's there says a lot more about what the military needs. And then I sincerely hope that Mr Stoffer will say: I agree with Mrs Belhaj once and for all that I have to stop saying that and that I hope that the economy does not get worse. Yeah, that's obvious. That's what we all want. So you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u235	I think there are all these things that Mr Van Helvert has put up. I would say: let Mrs Belhaj and Mr Van Helvert have a cup of coffee within the coalition and solve this. And if they don't come out at all, I'd like to sit down. But I don't think I have to solve this for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u236	But Mrs Belhaj has turned her point of order into an interruption. So she's moving on to her interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u237	That's right. Mr Van Helvert is actually playing a bit of a supporting role in the debate we now have. So you can thank him for asking you this question. Again, do you not think that the Prime Minister should not have just signed that declaration of intent because that is what it is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u238	No, I think the Prime Minister has made a very sensible decision. This is also something that is in an international spectrum and has been agreed as a NATO alliance. So very briefly: I think he has quite rightly signed an autograph there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u239	Does Mr Stoffer think it is normal for the Prime Minister to do so everywhere? It doesn't really matter what the subject is, because you think it's wise that he signs something and that he simply ignores the budget right of this Chamber? As a representative of the people, as a member of the House of Representatives, do you think it is a good thing that this was done at the time? Or do you say, well, if you looked at it again, perhaps it would have been neat if it had been properly discussed in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u240	This was in 2014. I wasn't there. But to get back to that: I do not think that the Prime Minister should do so everywhere, but in NATO you are really talking about something very specific. Then you also talk about our safety, security of ourselves and safety in the world. As far as I'm concerned, the Prime Minister has put a fine signature there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u241	Finally. That means, in fact, that Mr Stoffer indicates that he also thinks it is a good idea for the Prime Minister of a country to sign something without knowing whether he can live up to it. It was 10 billion a year. He has put the Netherlands as an unreliable country, and we are all reaping the benefits of it now because the United States confronts us with the fact that we have ever signed up for it. I get the Americans in there somewhere. It's unbelievably unreliable if you haven't arranged that $10 billion a year. You have to agree with me, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u242	Two things. One. We have spent years on the United States' pockets for our safety, so it is high time we just took care of it ourselves. Two. Can't you do that? It can be easy; look at our new election program and the pass-through we're bringing to the CPB. The SGP has a wonderful program. That 2% is just in there, so it can be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u243	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u244	Good, because I had some more on the budget, namely that this is also necessary for operational readiness. The Defence Vision contains clues to structurally improve it, but the Navy alone has acute problems with practice and readiness. Maintenance is postponed and exercises are cancelled. As far as the SGP is concerned, that is undesirable. My question is how the Secretary of State is going to keep the Navy steamed. In the wake of this, I come to the question of job specialisation. The Defence Vision says we should specialize, but not how we should do it, along with who and what that means for the development or purchase of new equipment. Task specialisation can be fine, but it must be clear within which frameworks and how the Netherlands maintains a versatile military force in the base. In addition, NATO cooperation must remain a guiding principle. My question is whether the Minister can clarify these points further. I also put my finger on a concrete material project, the Main Ground Combat System, called the tank of the future. This should give a strong boost to the firepower in the land domain. My question is whether the Minister wishes to promote the participation of the Netherlands in this programme as a co-developer. We will then be at the drawing table and I think it would be good for knowledge and employment in our defence industry. I think I have something here that Mrs Belhaj and I can probably agree on. I don't know, but it would be...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u245	We're not gonna provoke. We'll just continue with your own story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u246	I was just checking to see if there was another interruption, Mr. Chairman. No. Then the staff, the final point but certainly not the most insignificant point. I think it is very important that we have good equipment and good staff and that we also take good care of that staff. That is why I would like to emphasise the importance of a sound staffing policy. People who are ready for the Netherlands deserve good working conditions. My question is what is the point on the horizon when it comes to creating an open and flexible staff model with a market-based remuneration system. The SGP Group is pleased that the 8.5% increase in reserve reserves compared to mid-2019 contributes to the deployment of the armed forces, but at the same time we are concerned about the lack of planned inflow and filling rates. My question is whether there is a plan to solve this. Finally, I would like to stress the need for good psychological care for active military and veterans. Military people sometimes face difficult moral dilemmas. This is almost impossible to imagine in civil society. This can cause later guilt about something they did or left behind. That's a big impact. My question is whether there are sufficient resources available for training or therapies to prevent and/or process moral injury before and after the broadcast. Do you need extra bets for this? (NL) Mr President, all in all. This is the last defense budget of this cabinet period. I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State and all the military personnel and civilian personnel of Defence for their great commitment during this period. I would say: let us also fight with each other in the near future for a military force that also protects the next generations in our country and beyond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u247	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to the last speaker from the Chamber: Mr Öztürk of Denk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u248	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has traditionally been a country of diplomatic relations. That is why, as DENK, we want a Ministry of Peace and Reconstruction. Because we're good at diplomacy. We can prevent wars and tensions. That's what we've been doing in the past few years. For 70 years, over 70 years, the Netherlands has been a loyal member of NATO. Together with all these countries, we are trying to ensure safety. But we can see that the cabinet is chasing large countries and wants to invest hugely in submarines, fighter jets and large equipment. The Netherlands wants to spend billions on this. But what does DENK want? DENK wants us to pay our staff properly, that we give our staff the equipment they need and that they are not in old barracks while they deserve the place they need. However, this cabinet opts for jets and submarines, for expensive billions of investments. Mr. Chairman. This year's budget has a remarkable amount of investment. EUR 4.6 billion is earmarked for equipment. These are huge amounts of money for submarines, fighter jets and expensive equipment. Investment leaves little room for the distressing staff shortage or the former staff suffering from the AOW-hole. I would ask the Minister to refrain from the expensive equipment and to focus on the resources we need for our staff. I'd like a response from the Minister. The armed forces are here for our national security. For the safety of all Dutch, our soldiers risk their lives every day. We have to thank them for that. We must give them the resources they need, even when they are no longer employed and have an AOW-hole. Even if they're veterans, we're supposed to take care of these people. Unfortunately, we see thousands of veterans still being wronged. Currently, the Netherlands has about 110,000 veterans, who often have to wait years before they get the help they need. Some are traumatized by events and suffer from PTSD. A lack of medical examiners and a complicated bureaucratic system cause veterans problems. I would ask the Minister to respond to the National Ombudsman's call and to deploy additional staff and resources. I am considering tabling a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. About 16,000 former defence workers were in trouble due to the increase in the AOW age. The Minister's compensation scheme was not enough. Every day, my colleagues and I are still being alerted about this battle. Hundreds of letters are pouring in. These are personal letters written by hand. They're about the hope that the Cabinet and the Chamber will help these people. I would like to ask the Minister to keep her promises and to start the discussion as soon as possible. I expect an active attitude from the Minister. I expect her to solve the military AOW hole once and for all. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Once again, soldiers are silenced. The Ministry drew up new guidelines restricting freedom of expression for military personnel. Military people are not allowed to express themselves in public without permission from the Ministry. That's impossible, isn't it? I wonder what this minister is so afraid of. Why does the Minister strengthen the fear culture within the Defense Department? I would like to ask the Minister whether she wishes to abandon these directives and put an end to them immediately. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In the last few months, we've seen the Secretary of State make a few mistakes. It began with the sale of weapons and ammunition to private individuals to gain profits, weapons that may now fall into the wrong hands. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore why the government sells arms to private individuals. What's legitimate about that? The Secretary of State has made a commitment to more or less destroy the obsolete weapons or not sell them to private individuals. I would ask her not to wait any longer and to do so as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. The next point is the LIMC operation, a tortuous act of Defense to gather information about Dutch society. This was also contrary to the General Data Protection Regulation, the GDPR. This organisation had no clear mandate and operated in violation of the law. Now that the Minister has shut down the unit, I have a few questions. Why is the Minister himself investigating her own units? Doesn't that require an independent committee? I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally, Mr President. The view of DENK on Defense has been clear for years. I've been working with the Defense Department for decades. I've been to barracks. I've been everywhere and talked to hundreds of soldiers. We have little capacity, we have little resources and we want a lot. The fact that these resources aren't there means that people can make mistakes. Let's just choose peace and reconstruction. Let's be realistic. Let's make sure that our people have the capacity to do something right, so that they don't go wrong because the capacity or the material isn't there. Let's invest in good equipment and reward from our military. Let us invest in sufficient staff and equipment. That's the vision of DENK. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u249	Thank you. There is a question for you from Mr. Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u250	I am pleased to hear Mr Öztürk use more than half his speaking time to praise the people of Defence. That has been different in this room. Now I've just gone through the DENK election programme, which has been presented, six times, but there's actually no mention of the people of Defense. Now we have heard from colleagues that they are all active in democratic associations where amendments can be tabled to improve draft electoral programmes. Would it not be an idea that there should be an amendment to the DENK election programme, so that all of Mr Öztürk's fine words can simply be included in the electoral programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u251	On 19 December we have a general assembly of members. I warmly invite Mr. Kerstens, while he stops at the PvdA, to come by. He can still be a member and table an amendment. It's okay with us. And I will now give him the undertaking that I will wholeheartedly support the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u252	There you go. You have it inside.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u253	We've already got it in. But of course it is a bit humorous to use more than half of your speech to praise the military.................................................................................................................................................................................................. I hope, therefore, that it should not come from me and that Mr Öztürk himself thinks: in our election programme we can say more than zero words to the people of Defence, because they are the capital of the organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u254	Mr. Chairman. We have an election programme in which we have devoted a page to this. We have an 80-page election programme, so it's not easy, but I think I've said enough about our Defense personnel here on behalf of DENK for the last six years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u255	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-01-tweedekamer-42.u256	We will continue this debate with the reaction of the cabinet next Thursday morning. That concludes this sitting tonight, thank you very much. And safe at home.
