ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on legislative proposal 35133, the Land Property Act. I would like to welcome the Minister for the Environment and Living to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Bezaan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. As I noted during the debate on the Introduction Decision and the Introduction Act Environment Act, there has been a lot of work in recent years on this far-reaching reform of environmental law. I also indicated at that time that the new Environment Act directly affects the living environment of citizens and the business operations of companies. A good example of this is the present Land Property Supplementation Act. Mr. Chairman. Land ownership in the new Environment Act affects all of us. Everyone has to deal with it sooner or later. It is precisely with this law that my group has a great deal of difficulty, especially since this law makes it possible to expropriate land for, for example, the construction of solar parks or the installation of wind turbines. It is well known that the PVV will continue to fight against climate madness and its consequences for citizens and businesses. The farmers are already under heavy fire, and with D66 in the lead, this hardworking group would rather leave today than tomorrow. The land released, meadows and fields can then be completed to allow for the influx of even more immigrants. More inhabitants means further measures to enable the energy transition in the context of climate change. More solar parks, more wind turbines, and if there is still a little green left, then this law allows land expropriation. Mr. Chairman. I share the conclusion of my party colleague Kops in the House of Representatives. He concluded that the climate madness of this bill has achieved environmental law: the government that intervenes in property rights for the purpose of achieving nonsensical and unnecessary climate goals. This while the whole alleged problem could be solved by the construction of one or more nuclear power plants. As a result, no land expropriation, no installation of wind turbines, no construction of solar parks, no relocation of farmers, no building dust and no nitrogen discussion. What a rest this would give in the Netherlands for citizens, entrepreneurs and businesses. I therefore have the following questions to the Minister. Is it prepared to allow the construction of one or more nuclear power stations in the Netherlands? If not, why not? Does the Minister agree with the PVV Group that the construction of one or more nuclear power stations in the Netherlands will no longer require the construction of solar parks and the installation of wind turbines, if one wishes to meet the nonsensical climate targets? If not, why not? Mr President, I will conclude. It is clear that the PVV Group will vote against this bill. It calls on this Chamber to do the same, as the adoption of this bill will make it possible to commit a gross infringement of the property rights of citizens and businesses in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u4	I am somewhat confused by this speech by Mrs Bezaan, given that she voted in favour of the Environment Act, with her group, where, as a kind of Crisis and Recovery Act 2.0, legal protection was previously said to have been reduced towards the Forum for Democracy, precisely against what you now want to build. How do you rhyme with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u5	Well, we did vote in favour of the Environment Act, because we think that is a good law in itself. But that doesn't mean that we think that parts of this law are perfect, too. Quite the contrary. That is why we are opposed to this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u6	But if you'll just answer my question, please. You are helping to reduce legal protection against what you do not want to build now. That is what you are voting for, and then you are going to tell a whole story that you are so opposed to this being built. You've worked on it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u7	We have indeed been involved in this, in the sense that we are in favour of the Environment Act, because, once again, we believe that it is a good law and because we are convinced that it is not a good part of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u8	Mr Janssen, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u9	Mr President, very briefly. I note that I didn't hear that when you voted for the Environment Act. I did not hear you make that reservation at the time. So you've made it possible. So you cannot now claim that this part is going to be very bad if it continues, while you yourself have made it easier for it to go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u10	Those are your words.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u11	Thank you, Mrs Bezaan. I call Mr Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u12	Mr. Chairman. It is particularly important to be able to speak on this subject today, because it is an issue that I have been confronted with in my early career in administration and politics. During my first year as an official of the State, which was in 1977 I noticed sideways which variants were invented by Professor De Haan to settle a crisis in the Den Uyl cabinet about fundamental politics. It was then about compensation for expropriation. Eventually, that didn't work out, by the way. In the early 1980s, as a starting member of the council for my group, I was spokesperson in the discussion between the Labour Party and the VVD in particular on the introduction of the system of perpetual leases in the municipality of The Hague, a system which is still common. I mention this because I have learned from both experiences that the political emotions surrounding this issue can grow high and therefore that caution is needed if you want to do that. My own experiences go back only forty years, but with the Act of expropriation, for example, the case law goes back to 1851. Those are things you don't just put aside. The starting point of the four supplementary laws to the Environment Act, which we are discussing today on land ownership, is that there are possibilities for policy renewal, but that there should remain an equivalent level of protection, even in the area of legal protection. Given my introduction, I think that is a good starting point. For my group, this has therefore been an important point of review in this law. This is not, therefore, a question of whether there are any changes that are possible, but of whether the balance sheet currently in the policy is disturbed. One of the underlying thoughts of the Environment Act is the balance between protecting and exploiting. In this Supplementary Act, that balance has a slightly different meaning. It is the balance between protecting property, as contained in the Constitution, and enabling developments. More than with the other supplementary laws, there are hybrid constructions; public law and private law are overlapping. In this respect, it is important for us to see that organic rather than integrated regional development has become more and more common over the last decade. The organic development of the area is a matter of facilitating land policy. The government fulfils its responsibilities, but also leaves room for initiatives by citizens and entrepreneurs. Then a legal safety net is important, but perhaps even more important than mutual trust. In my own administrative practice in Zwolle, for example, I have seen that there is a consortium where market players, corporations and governments jointly present a urbanisation perspective and, on that basis, therefore, fulfil their own responsibilities on the basis of trust. Then the tools of the Supplementary Act are the final part and not the start of the process. In our opinion, this Supplementary Act takes over the position of the owner, as enshrined in existing legislation, politically neutrally. Our compliments for the massive operation, involving many. My group does not claim to be able to assess this complex matter in detail, and then it is very important if you have confidence in the process. I mention a number of parts of the Supplementary Act. In line with the principles of the Environmental Law, the Expropriation Act makes procedures simpler, clearer and more transparent, but does not reduce legal protection. In our view, the acceleration of the procedure through the administrative judge is an improvement, as a result of better compliance with the General Administrative Law Act. The Supplementary Act also contains a number of new aspects. I'll walk right by. A review period after five years has been introduced by the Lower House of Representatives. It always seems to us to be a good thing if the public authorities exercise a power of discretion by applying a review to it now and then. The law also provides new frameworks for mandatory lot exchange in the rural area and voluntary lot exchange in the urban area. The latter is a new point. The possibility has also been created to enable a lot exchange between urban and rural areas. On this point, too, the VVD considers that there are improvements. Then I come to perhaps the most difficult point in the Environment Act, namely the cost story. The legal framework for the cost story has been renewed in consultation with the Parties, including VNG and IPO. The law offers new opportunities for cost story in the organic area development I have just mentioned. The possibility of private law through anterior agreements continues to exist. This is also preferred by municipalities, other governments and initiators. I read last Friday's Vastgoedrecht since it is estimated that 95% of the cases of cost recovery go through private law. It appears to be a scarce case law. From that, I conclude that it is proceeding satisfactorily. As far as I am concerned, attention to the private sector is very important. In addition, an amendment was adopted in the Lower House which also provides a public legal basis. In addition to the regular cost story, financial contributions to spatial development can be requested. It will not have escaped the attention of the Minister that we asked a number of questions about this in the written preparation of this debate. In any case, we would not have proposed this construction to give a small indication of where we stand. But perhaps the Minister himself can tell us again how she looks at this extra possibility created by the House of Representatives, partly in relation to the input of others that I expect today on the related issue of compensation, because there are now a lot of cost-story instruments in discussion. I think it is good that we can still see the forest through the trees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u13	Can Mr Meijer explain to me why that public-law cost story would not be necessary? It is precisely from his practice as alderman and mayor that he needs to know that you often get results under private law which, of course, are always preferable because the stick is behind the door that it is otherwise governed by public law. That's okay for a second, because that always takes a long time, so that's always a stick behind the door to get something done? Otherwise the private developer says: I stay on my hands, because they need that land for housing or something else, so they have to pay a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u14	I shall return to that in the rest of the speech. Let me at least say that perhaps the Minister can explain once again that there are already a lot of possibilities in the law. The government itself did not think it necessary to bring in that public law side; it was brought in by the House of Representatives. But I'd like the government to explain why she didn't think it was necessary herself and what other way it was going. I have a few more questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u15	I was just glad that the House of Representatives has moved away from the extremely liberal path that was originally so dominant in these draft laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u16	Now you almost challenge me to a longer speech. I have just spoken about policy neutrality and that we should not place too much political weight in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u17	These draft laws start with the government's remark that this is not politically neutral and that this is an exception to all the other environmental laws. So that's what I liked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u18	In fact, I note that seven or eight amendments have been adopted in the House of Representatives, which have reduced the proposals slightly to policy neutrality. I have no objection to these other adjustments either. This was a new element. I would like to hear from the Minister exactly how the cost story is arranged. I shall now go on with my own text, because there are those questions in it. The VVD notes, also in response to the Government's comments in the further reply, that in any case the legislative text contains a reasonably adequate demarcation. We still have a separate AMvB identifying the categories of developments for which the financial contribution can be used. As far as we are concerned, these types of costs are as clear in advance as possible. We will be alert, if there is a pending procedure, in the way in which all this has been worked out, because it must be clear to the parties what types of costs may be covered. Otherwise we will have endless discussions about this, which may delay developments. The Minister himself mentioned 'I think it was in the debate', otherwise in the further statement of reply 'that, for example, the nitrogen dossier could be placed here. I think you should be careful that things that are still under development, such as climate adaptation, energy transition and nitrogen balance, are already being included in these schemes, without having been completely discussed, with the proper allocation of costs - who pays what costs? So, as far as the cost story is concerned, and as far as the compensation scheme, which we will have questions about later, is concerned, I would like to give you a more detailed explanation so that we can point this out. I say this in particular from the point I made at the beginning: be wise about changes in basic policy, in view of all the discussions that are possible. The VVD will support the present Supplementary Act. I would once again like to congratulate the Minister and the staff for this result. But on one point, as I have just mentioned, we will be monitoring developments closely. We await the Minister's answer with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u19	Thank you, Mr. Meijer. I call Mr Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u20	Mr. Chairman. I have given the University of Maastricht an introduction to philosopherial ethics for many years. That is a philosophical discipline that deals with the foundations of ethics. The question is: how do I do that? Among other things, I discuss the comment of the well-known reformer Johannes Calvijn on the eighth commandment. This command is: "Thou shalt not steal." The interesting thing is that Calvin was originally a lawyer. We find him two important notions about property. The first notion is that ownership has a religious dimension. Calvin connects property with a Giver with a large G: you get all the goods from God. The second notion is that ownership also has a moral dimension. Calvin says that we must be prepared to share our property with others in need. He therefore says that good management of property means "protecting and promoting the benefit and benefit of others." Religious notion understood most students. Calvin was a Christian, after all. But the moral notion they found really difficult. Why do I have to do something with my wealth to the benefit and benefit of others? Mr. Chairman. It may well be I am careful to say that Calvin's second notion helps us to understand the Environmental Law in general and the Supplementary Law on Land Property in particular. I am also thinking of the balance between exploiting and preserving. Calvin's stated notion shows that it is not only about the value for the initiator, but also about the value for all others affected by it. The same goes for the notion of protecting. It is also about protecting and promoting the benefit and benefit of the other. Mr. Chairman. Calvin makes it clear that moral considerations not only play a role in the balance between preservation and use and protection, but also in the balance sheet within the use and protection. The Group of the Christian Union believes that the Environment Act in general is one of the things that we are thinking of in this regard, among other things, participation and the Supplementary Act in particular, we are thinking of the cost regulation or the compensation; I will come back to that offer beautiful tools to map and weigh all these balances. Mr. Chairman. The members of the Christian Union Group have expressed their appreciation for the great effort made by the Ministry, the provinces, the water authorities and the municipalities to create a clear, accessible and simpler system of environmental law in the context of the Introduction Act. We would now like to express our appreciation again, for the Supplementary Land Property Act and the Supplementary Land Property Act and for all the work done by the officials, among other things to answer our questions. The Group of the Christian Union can also agree with the conclusion as mentioned on page 10 of the explanatory statement, where we read that integrating the rules on preferential rights, expropriation and set-up of the rural area into the Environmental Law, the introduction of land exchange for the urban area, and the further adaptation of the rules on land exploitation to a cost story scheme, make an important contribution to achieving the societal goals of the Environmental Law and the improvement of the system review. Mr. Chairman. The reply states several times that the new law and current legislation provide an equivalent level of protection for citizens. The Christian Union Group is convinced that this is also the intention of the legislator. It remains exciting how this intention will eventually be materialized in practice. For this reason, the Christian Union Group asks the Minister to give explicit consideration to the practice of protecting citizens in relation to the current law in the evaluation of the Land Property Act. Our question is whether she can promise that. Mr. Chairman. I have also received a letter from the Royal Notarial Professional Organisation about the Land Property Act. The date of that letter is February 14, 2020. In view of the introductory wording, several Members of Parliament received this letter. In this letter, three points are added: registration of a new parcel, registration of a lot exchange agreement and limitation of rural and urban areas. The Christian Union Group asks the Minister if she is familiar with this letter and asks for her response to it. Mr. Chairman. In the further reply, the Minister addressed in detail the questions raised by our group regarding a generic cost story or a generic compensation scheme. I also refer to the contribution of Mr Crone of the PvdA. The answers raised by our group raise a number of questions. In replying to our questions, we refer in particular to the rules in the law on cost recovery and to the questioning or enforcing of a financial contribution for, for example, compensatory measures in the case of designated construction activities. This concerns Article 13.22 and Article 13.23 of the Environment Act. Can we see that right? Can we see that the cost story and the financial contribution scheme do not apply to environmental activities, discharge activities and the like? The tailor-made rules mentioned by the Minister in the reply also raise questions. Is it true that this type of rule facilitates, in particular, the side of making use of it and not that of protecting it, subject to a single custom rules on nature? Can you indicate which custom rules are intended to protect rather than exploit them? For example, should not the values that are affected and compensated be clearly defined for the management of landscapes in order to achieve better protection of the landscape? In the case of the water aspects, for example, the drainage capacity of the river Ottoman and nature, for example, the Birds and Habitats Directives, have been incorporated into the law a power to impose compensatory measures. But we also see that this compensation scheme is to a large extent limited to construction activities. Our group therefore wonders whether a generic compensation scheme in the law could not contribute to a better balance between exploiting and protecting, or in Calvin's words 'protecting and promoting the benefit and benefit of others', both in terms of exploitation and protection, and in terms of the balance between them. Our question to the Minister is therefore: can you investigate the usefulness and necessity of a generic cost story or a generic compensation scheme in the law at system level? Can you also take with you the legitimate interests of the various stakeholders? And can you also include the results of the monitoring of the financial contribution schemes under Article 13.22 and Article 13.23 of the law and the cost story? Could this study start in the first year after its entry into force? Can you involve the Chamber in this investigation? We would be pleased if you could make a commitment to this. Our group looks forward to the Minister's answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u21	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. I call Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Meijer went into the history of land policy and Mr Verkerk even went back to Calvijn, whom I listened to with interest. I had to think for myself of a winged pronunciation that is still circulating in my family. It's my great-grandfather's statement about land, which is: you can ride on land with guns. In other words, soil always keeps its value. Under that motto he tried to acquire as much land as possible in the surroundings of Achterberg and Rhenen. The posterity has also benefited from this for a long time. He also did so in Russia, until 1917 all foreign property was nationalized. The story goes in our family that my great-grandfather was at one point on top of a big safe full of worthless securities. Well, that's my ground association. Now I'm going to this bill. After the written rounds, the SGP still has some concerns and questions. I'd like to start with the cost story. For direct cost-story in spatial development, a contract can be concluded under private law and there is a public cost-story as a stick behind the door. That stays the way it was. A hot issue is a possible financial contribution by project developers, large and small, to spatial development. That can be done under private law. This power for the government is still included in the Supplementary Act. However, a restriction has been chosen in relation to the Regional Planning Act. Such agreements may only be made in respect of activities designated by AMvB. In the Supplementary Decision, this is limited to construction and conversion projects. Destination changes for an event or parking area, or the construction of a meadow with solar panels are excluded. That seems undesirable to me, because it can also involve major interventions in the landscape. Why isn't this broader? As far as the enforcement of financial contributions by the public is concerned, I would like to put a brake on this. An amendment introduced this into the law. That has already been mentioned by the VVD colleague. I have the following questions. The first question concerns the heading "procedural'. It's complicated matter with conflicting interests. There's been a lot of discussion about this. We do not want pay-planology, but in the meantime it seems to be a regular issue in practice. Practice shows that the current agreements are very diverse. In the past, therefore, consensus has been sought between the NEPROM and the VNG. Torturing the current balance can have a major impact on housing production. I therefore wonder whether it would be wise, through the proposal before us, to introduce the enforceable financial contribution into the legislation. Haste rush is rarely good. Lawyers already point out that the cost story has become a messy part of the Environment Act, with the legislator clinging to different thoughts, underexposed the private law trail and sometimes not rhyming legal texts and explanations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u23	I would like to ask the honourable Member: do you know these dozens of examples of developers who sometimes buy slips in an area where homes have to go? These are examples from history, because of course it is a political theme. For that one piece of paper, they'd like to ask for the top prize in private law. Then as a government, you must have a stick behind the door. Surely there must always be a higher interest than the private interest, especially in your eyes? The government has that role.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u24	I understand your question very well. I now come to the substantive point. I think I'll answer your question, or I'll see you again. I understand your point, but I'm gonna put something on the other side. This also affects, in particular, the legal certainty of market players. That is just what we saw in the debate between you and the VVD colleague. That legal certainty is actually my big objection. I now come to the heading "in substance." There are clear criteria for public-law costs. It can only be done if the project developer benefits from it, and it is proportionate and imputable. There is also a limited list of types of costs. But in the amendment to the proposed public-law enforceable financial contributions, the door is wide open. The explanatory statement to the amendment sets out a number of options. It is a whole laundry list that goes from improving the quality of the landscape to realizing social housing outside the planning area. Here is my point, my question to the Minister: where is the legal certainty of market players here? Is it possible for municipalities to charge for everything that cannot be charged through the cost story by means of a compulsory financial contribution? My question to the Minister is: is she prepared to look at the whole structure again, especially when it comes to the enforceable financial contribution and the discussion about this with project developers and municipalities? And is it prepared to come at least for the strict framework of enforceable financial contributions when adapting the Supplementary Decision and, if necessary, to amend the law? I'm getting to the point of expropriation. Expropriation interferes with a fundamental right, namely the right to property. The SGP, in conjunction with expropriation lawyers, has some critical questions about the choices made in the present legislative proposal. It can't be that someone is expropriated without being personally informed of this. In the current Expropriation Act there are safeguards such as a third party appointment and personal service. These safeguards are much weaker in the present law, even if they are registered mail. Would the Minister like to keep this under review again? Expropriation lawyers question the time gains outlined by the government in an administrative rather than a civil expropriation procedure and fear delays. For example, in the current procedure, there is often a long time between the application for expropriation and the actual inspection of the documents by the Crown, because it takes time to complete the file. The administrative body will also need time in the area of public law for a dossier to be made available. That time, however, the government does not count, if I understand it correctly. How does the Minister view this? The Council of State, supported by expropriation lawyers, advises to opt for legal protection in one rather than two bodies. The Council of State points out that in two of the three decisions which could serve as the basis for the expropriation interest, the environmental plan and the project decision are open to appeal to a single body under the Environmental Law, first and only, and that, where this is also the case in the expropriation decision, it is possible to opt for coordinated decision-making as referred to in Section 3.5 of the Awb. In that case, any interested party's concerns against an expropriation decision could be dealt with at the same time as the action against the decision on which it is based. The Council of State points out that, in practice, grounds for the spatial decision are frequently invoked in an expropriation procedure, and vice versa. Furthermore, legal protection in one instance also accelerates the procedure. Then the point of the landscaping. Voluntary lot exchange agreements in Section 12.6 are subject to a separate improvement requirement, whereas the general provisions in Section 12.1 already state that land-use improvement is to be carried out in the rural area. But also voluntary lot exchange is part of the chapter on landscaping, isn't it? Then why the special need for improvement? In the explanatory statement, the government already states that it is not a question of an independent touchstone. So I'm afraid of confusion. Lot exchange in the rural area is exempt from transfer tax. Before the introduction of the National Land Planning Act, the Tax Administration regularly put the dissection knife in lot exchange agreements, but we should not want to go that way again. The government states in the note following the report that the general improvement requirement in section 12.1 would not apply to section 12.6, which regulates the voluntary lot exchange. I can't really follow that. Voluntary lot exchange is also land-use, even if it goes outside the county board? In any case, my key point is here: why does the Minister not ensure that either the specific requirement for improvement is removed or that the legislative text clearly shows that the specific requirement for improvement cannot be assessed independently? I'm very looking forward to the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u25	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I call Mrs Moonen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u26	Mr. Chairman. For us today, the no less than third additional law is in line with the Environmental Act. After soil and sound we are talking today about the Supplementary Land Property Act. History does indeed show that this is a very important subject. Mr Meijer has already indicated that there have been previous cabinet cases. Think of the Den Uyl cabinet in 1977, which fell over the expropriation. As a former sworn steward, I am also experienced in how sensitive land ownership can be. I also experience this in the home situation. I'm from an agricultural company myself. My parents are so wise to gather the whole family every time my brother buys land or rents, so all my brothers and sisters too, so that all land transfers take place in full transparency. My parents say that's how you keep the family together, because soil can also be accompanied by a lot of emotion. From that source of inspiration, I also looked at this bill. I have noted that there have been many amendments. These are not always good for the clarity of the legislation, but I think that these amendments have improved the legislative proposal in this case. For D66 it is important that the government does not assume tasks that people can take on themselves. From that point of view, D66 was positive towards selfrealization as an exception to the right of preference. However, the way in which self-realisation was included in Article 9.11 of the initial legislative proposal could not exclude the fact that, under the guise of self-realization, parties would actually hinder the municipal development strategy. It is well known that in the Netherlands we have huge tasks. Think of the housing statement and the infrastructure statement. Delays are therefore undesirable. Municipalities must therefore be able to have the space to take initiatives and develop areas. That is why my group is content that in the House of Representatives the Smeulders amendment to piece No. 11 has been adopted. On behalf of my group, I would like to put a number of questions to the Minister today on the following three issues: firstly, the examination of compulsory urban land consolidation, secondly, legal certainty in the case of costs and thirdly, the information position of municipalities. Firstly, the mandatory urban land consolidation. The Group of the Party of European Socialists in D66 welcomes the fact that the government has launched an investigation into the advantages and disadvantages of compulsory urban land consolidation. In reply to my question to the Minister, the government states that it awaits the results of that investigation, but I do have the following questions, Minister. Does the Minister consider it possible for the government, when it has positive research results regarding the introduction of mandatory urban land consolidation, to actually make this instrument possible? In short, to what extent is there an open attitude on the part of the government towards compulsory urban land consolidation? Mr. Chairman. I come to my second topic, legal certainty in cost stories. This concerns in particular the decentralised calculation system in the case of cost stories. The Council of State has criticized the decentralised accounting system in cost stories. The Council of State is particularly critical of the fact that the accounting rules are not only included in an environmental plan, but are also linked to an environmental permit. Since the administrative courts review rules in general binding rules differently from those in a decision, this may lead to a different legal status within one and the same municipality for corresponding rules on cost recovery. How does the Minister view the effects of different legal statuses for corresponding rules on legal certainty within one and the same municipality? Then I come to my third point, the information position of municipalities. My group is concerned about the information position of municipalities. With regard to expropriation, the Advisory Committee on Environmental Law writes in its opinion: "In order to create confidence in the action of the government and prevent an unnecessary course to the administrative court, it is to consider setting up a national facility that the municipality can advise upon request." And with regard to the cost story, the Council of State notes that "when they have to determine the cost accounting system themselves, they are faced with a very big task, which is whether or not they can deliver on it." Both quotes, i.e. those of the Advisory Committee on Environment and the Council of State, are based on a possible serious lack of expertise among municipalities, and that is what my next question to the Minister is about. I would ask the Minister to address the need and the concrete possibilities for supporting municipalities in relation to the tasks and responsibilities that the government is now going to lay down in municipalities about expropriation and cost stories. Finally, Mr President, D66 considers the quality of the physical environment to be important. For this reason, D66 together with a number of other parties in the House of Representatives has, by means of the Ronnes amendment to piece No. 34 Articles 13.23 and 13.24 added to the legislative proposal now before us. This addition makes it possible for authorities to enforce public contributions to improve the quality of the physical environment. For D66 this is an important instrument, inter alia because it can contribute to solving the problem of nitrogen and to improving the landscape, nature and water, without compromising the balance between protecting and exploiting. We agree with the questions raised by the Christian Union about contributions to environmentally harmful activities and discharge activities. Can public contributions be enforced in this respect too? The D66 Group asks the Minister when this separate amending act, which is being put forward, is actually ready. Can the Minister promise that the Environment Act will not enter into force until the amending act has been accepted by both chambers? This commitment is important to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u27	I would like to return to Mrs Moonen's comment on Mr Ronnes' amendment. The importance that Mrs Moonen is referring to, I understand, but the amendment has a very open end. I have just touched that point in my contribution. There can be a lot of stuff in that story. What about the legal certainty of market players? Would it not be better to have a more precise framework than the amendment now proposes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u28	I think this can be a very interesting amendment even for private parties. If you look at the spirit of the Ronnes amendment, you will see that it also means that when a private party has an initiative, for example, a housing initiative, or a project, and is unable to provide the necessary compensation itself, that party will have the opportunity to buy it off through that public contribution as it were. So you could also say that a private party actually has a possibility of actually taking compensatory measures through a financial compensation, as requested by the municipality. So you can also explain it positively. This amendment gives a developer an opportunity to continue with the implementation of his project. Mr President, I have come to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u29	Thank you, Mrs Moonen. I call Mr Rietkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The group of the CDA notes that the First Chamber debated the intention of the Environment Act on 27 and 28 January. This intention also applies to the Land Property Supplementary Act and the Supplementary Decision currently in force. For the sake of clarity, the CDA refers to its contribution. Mr. Chairman. The law supplementing the Land Property Act integrates the instruments of preference law, expropriation and land design, which are governed by the Premier Law Act of municipalities, the Wvg, the Expropriation Act and the Land Property Act, de Wilg, into the Environment Act, before the entry into force of the new Environmental Law Act. In addition, this bill makes it possible to apply the private law facility of lot exchange in the rural area also in the urban area, and simplifies the land exploitation scheme in the Environment Act into a cost story scheme. With these additions, the Environment Act will provide an integral toolbox for managing and developing the physical environment. In our opinion, this fits in well with the intention of the Environmental Act. Mr. Chairman. Through the Ronnes c.s. amendment A number of colleagues have already mentioned this amendment, which is a widely shared need for a enforceable public-law variant, namely the extension of the possibilities for public authorities to contract financial contributions. At law level, the scheme for a public-law enforceable financial contribution already contains a number of demarcations. The first paragraph of Article 13.22 of the bill states that the financial contribution can only be required from promoters if the contribution is used to improve the quality of the physical environment and there is a functional link between the development for which the contribution is required and the activity or construction activity of the initiator. In addition, we believe that the legislation on public-law enforceable contributions is limited to construction activities for which mandatory costs are to be recovered. That could be with homes or with offices. Finally, as we see it, only a reasonable contribution can be requested. The criteria are set out in Article 13.22, third paragraph of the bill. My question to the Minister is: does the CDA Group see this right? Furthermore, Article 13.22 of the Land Property Act provides the possibility to contract private law on financial contributions to new developments in the physical environment. Article 8.20 of the Environmental Decree, as amended by the draft Supplementary Decision, identifies the activities on which a contract can be concluded. In short, this scheme allows contracts to be made on the construction of new buildings or on the conversion of existing buildings, and therefore of a certain size. Following the Ronnes c.s. amendment further consultations have been held with, inter alia, the VNG and the IPO on the extension of the possibility of private law contracting. The VNG and the IPO focus on continuing the existing practice, which has grown under the current Law on Spatial Planning. The current basis for contracting on a financial contribution is limited to the Regional Planning Act. I ask the Minister if she supports the direction of VNG and IPO. I need to take a look. I'm taking up my argument again. When it comes to the development of the principle of compensation, on which my next part is concerned, my group has a number of questions. Municipalities, provinces and the Empire can already implement the principle of compensation. The CDA group asks the Minister whether this is enough and whether it is appropriate to strengthen the quality of the environment. In the case of developments of municipal interest, as well as in the case of developments of provincial interest as in the case of developments of national interest, municipalities have the policy space to implement the principle of compensation. Can the Minister respond to the question of whether this gives sufficient policy space and whether it contributes sufficiently to the quality of our living environment? Moreover, I know of a province which has for a number of years had an environmental vision with a regional characteristics catalogue and a translation of the principle of compensation into a regulation. And it's working, too. It is a very beautiful province in the east of the country. For the other questions relating to the principle of compensation, I refer to other groups. Moreover, can the Minister also reflect the effect of an additional legal basis, which is also advocated by the IPO, by broadening the instrument box in relation to the current law? The new system also offers more opportunities to deal with, for example, the problem of nitrogen and to restore nature and, if so, how? Mrs Moonen asked for that too. How does the Minister now see the relationship between the emergency legislation approach nitrogen and the system of the Environment Act? Minister Schouten wrote on behalf of the cabinet that there will be a substantial investment in nature through a nature bank. How do the powers of this natural bank relate to the Land Property Act, especially in the case of land consolidation? Can the Minister comment on this? Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group supports the government with the amendment to allow the application of the private-law property exchange facility in the rural area also for the urban area. A number of groups have also mentioned this. This change will also help with the necessary housing volume in the cities. A further step, a legislative regulation of urban land consolidation in addition to this lot exchange, is not proposed at present. However, the CDA Group sees a possibility for a more robust implementing instrument. I agree with Mrs Moonen's question: can the Minister explain why this possibility has not yet been incorporated into the law, especially in view of the urgent call for housing last year, this year and also next year? In areas with national interests, e.g. housing, the National Real Estate Company could play a more prominent role in the implementation. Does the National Real Estate Company have sufficient grounds to achieve, whether or not with lot exchange, a national interest as far as we are concerned in the implementation of housing policies and, of course, in coordination with co-governments, pace and effectiveness in implementation? We think about the areas of Amsterdam and Katwijk, but also Zwolle. How can the executive power of the Empire be stimulated by the use of the National Real Estate Company? Finally. The CDA Group also calls for attention to be paid to monitoring and evaluation. How does the Minister see the consistency with previous commitments regarding the Independent Review Committee on Environmental Law, which will report to us annually? The documents say that there will be a review in five years' time. How are we supposed to see this relationship? Furthermore, the CDA Group asks for the possibilities under Article 13.22 of the Environmental Law to contract private law on financial contributions to new developments in the physical environment, and to pay particular attention to them in monitoring and evaluation. How does the Minister see this? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u31	Thank you, Mr. Rietkerk. I call Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u32	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members for all the specific questions, which saves us a lot of time because we do not need to repeat them. Today we have the next chapter in the additions to the Environment Act. Again, an equal level of protection is the starting point. Whether this is achieved is again the question, because many changes are not yet clear how they will work out in practice. With this Supplementary Act, the consequences may be even more profound for individual citizens, because it is not a question of burden or nuisance, however annoying it may be, but of ownership, over house and fireplace and therefore also about money. We have once again received many letters about this, including the legal consequences. I quote the Council of State again, because it had a number of fundamental comments and concerns, and not the least. I note, however, that the recommendations are being taken up very slowly. I also note that here too, the spirit of the Environment Act reigns. Let me take an example from the opinion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State and the further report of 1 February 2019. The conclusion in point 6.b4 is that "The Section concludes that the proposal does not serve legal certainty and the burden on the judiciary and that the proposal does not lead to the intended reduction of administrative burdens and the simple application of the instruments. Nor does the proposal contribute to the improvement of the new environmental law system as it does not increase the clarity, predictability and ease of use of environmental law. The Section therefore recommends that the deletion of the calculation systems resulting from Chapter 12 of the Environmental Act be reconsidered by means of the Supplementary Law on Land Property." I think that is a very clear and firm text, to give it some euphemism. My question to the Minister is therefore very specific: does she think that the adjustments made following the review have now met the concerns of the Section and I would like to make it quite clear that the current system does serve the legal certainty and taxation of the judiciary, and that the proposal is now leading to the aim of reducing administrative burdens and to the simple application of the instruments? Does the Minister believe that the proposal is now contributing to the improvement of the new system of environmental law and to the clarity, predictability and ease of use of environmental law? I'm doing it the other way around, but I think the Minister can handle it. I'd like to get a clear answer to that. And in addition to what Mr Rietkerk, my colleague from the CDA, said about this: is not in five years' time to reconsider very late if it turns out that everything goes wrong? Mr. Chairman. The further reply, which was also written on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, refers several times to the Emergency nitrogen Act. Then I get into a bit of trouble with the general consultation in the House of Representatives of 20 February. I'll get back to you on that. I quote from the further reply: "In addition, the system will be supplemented by rules on specific measures related to the nitrogen approach in the emergency nitrogen act. An example of this is the registration of nitrogen deposition space. The new rules of the Emergency Act are thus continued as part of the system of the Environment Act." But then I get a little confused. We have debated this emergency law in this Chamber for two days. Then, just before the vote, we were attacked by an agreement with the agricultural organizations that we knew nothing about. I asked written questions about this and I did not think that the answer was entirely satisfactory, but I will leave that for now. But is that emergency law, which was a combination with an emergency law to be submitted, now found to be replaced by a natural bank in the Lower House on 20 February? I am then losing track, for example, as an argument against the wish expressed by the IPO for a compensation scheme to be included in the Environment Act. But that new emergency law, which should have been a combination with that emergency law, is tossed out. Can the Minister make it clear what the status of that emergency law and the rules contained therein is and what is actually going to be anchored? As the Minister of LNV said in general consultation on 20 February, the nature bank will indeed replace the emergency law. Then I find it a little complicated to follow. The Minister shakes no, but I find it complicated, so I have fewer people who support me in it. I find it rather complicated to see what is actually going to be anchored. Well, that's kind of tricky, considering. There are arguments for not doing something and it is being picked apart; well, we're going to see it. Mr. Chairman. I am also contributing to the rapid progress of this debate. Rounding up. This Supplementary Land Property Act is again characterized by many changes which have been thought out on the drawing board that they might be able to work, but which are still extremely uncertain in practice. We got a lot of signals about it again. The Council of State was also clear about it. For my group, it is the next variable in the equation that is the Environment Act. It brings more uncertainty and uncertainty as far as we are concerned. In the knowledge that this can be about people's homes and homes and that the property of citizens is at stake, my group therefore seems to be a further step too far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u33	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is tempting to respond to Mr Janssen, because this is a very political law. From that angle, I didn't expect this headwind, but it'll turn out when I'm done. We welcome this Supplementary Act and we can discuss it today. We thank the Minister and the officials for the many answers, albeit for the fact that another search has been made. I quote Mrs Kluit van GroenLinks, but also other groups. We have to look back very often in the answers, in the response and even in the further reply, and then there is a reference to documents from years ago. Well, I guess we'll just have to go back and find it. That is annoying for us, because we are not lazy, but we cannot all find that. We haven't been Members of Parliament for very long, so we haven't all been there. I also think it is a bad example of the introduction of the Environment Act, because it is already an integration of many different regulations and laws. Then you just want the last piece to have almost everything in it. Of course that is not possible, but I think it is a really bad start to the Environment Act, as lawyers, lawyers, but also citizens and civil servants, if they are to read back these documents immediately, also have to look back eighty pieces themselves. That's a critical note, isn't it? I believe that after this kind of debate, everyone has the right to a complete final picture, including the history of origin and the changes that have taken place. Even though I am grateful, I would like to ask the Minister to provide the information in full in the latest documents in the future. I'm not the first to say this. Mrs Klip and Mrs Kluit said the same last time. Again, it is now almost a combination of a five-star sudoku from Trouw and the cryptogram on Saturday in NRC/Handelsblad. You understand it's our Saturday afternoon meeting at home to solve it. Then about the content. That has also been a wonderful process, but fortunately with a happy outcome. The laws on land ownership would not be a policy-neutral transposition from the outset. That's exactly what it said! It is good that this was so, that the transfer of old into new laws would bring benefits, but fortunately the House of Representatives said that there were more deteriorations than improvements. There were eight amendments, as Mr Meijer said. They were needed to remove the deterioration and return to policy neutrality or improvement. In fact, I would like to ask the Minister to comment politically. A draft law containing eight amendments or amendments, the most important of Mr Ronnes and Mr Smeulders, can it explain how it appreciates this politically? Surely a minister would never be happy with such a far-reaching amendment of the law? We welcome it, because it leaves opportunities for public authorities to actively direct spatial planning. They are not taken from the municipalities, as it originally seemed, but are maintained and even improved here and there. We as PvdA are happy about that. Is that how the Minister sees it? Now that this law is going to look like this, it can also become much more active and faster with housing, nitrogen and other problems, in order to tackle the huge shortages in the housing market. Fortunately, under the leadership of my colleague Nijboer and Mr Ronnes of the CDA, the House of Representatives called on the Minister last week or the week before to take much more active action on the housing market. The reactions of the minister in the Lower House were friendly and appropriate, as we know her, but not yet decisive enough, at least I read in the newspaper. Surely the Minister can use this law in his hand as soon as possible to use all the possibilities that exist? I would also like to ask her if she can outline a roadmap later. That road map does not have to wait until this law enters into force, because that is not until 1 January, I suppose. That roadmap is a combination of all the laws we have now, to quickly tackle housing. There was also an interesting suggestion from colleague Rietkerk about the use of the Rijksvaastgoedbedrijf. Where are these new homes coming from? Then elderly people can engage in comfortable apartments, then young people can flow to the homes that the elderly leave behind and then the total production would fly up again. This requires very active management of the public authorities together, and immediately. I would therefore like to ask when the February letter will be on the NOVI. My colleague Nooren has asked the same question. Through the NOVI we would conduct more direction, as has been widely worn in the House of Representatives. It's a February letter, but it's now March 3rd and I still haven't found the letter in my box this morning. Is the letter coming tonight? We asked for that central direction. Then I come to the content of the present bill. There are really a number of improvements, such as the right of preference which is being modernised. That's an improvement. Much has been said about the cost story, because that is the pièce de résistance today. Fortunately, the cost story has been improved through the Ronnes and others amendment, because it can now be enforced by public law if it is necessary to improve the quality of the physical environment. My group very much welcomes that, because developers would find it very easy to get it otherwise, under a purely private law regime. Then they can sit on their hands, Mr. Janssen, because if it's private law, you don't have to give anything unless the other one moves. Then they'll win the big prize just by sitting on their hands. We need that public stick behind the door, and I would also like to say to Mr Meijer, because he knows that 95% is governed by private law. The parties will then know that they must get out, otherwise it will be public law. That's not attractive to the government, because it takes a long time, but it doesn't take the private developer, because he doesn't know what comes out of it. In the Netherlands we still have very good, quivered experiences that a good price will come out for the developer, often better than when he himself would go for sale in the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u35	I'd like to get rid of the idea that developers or initiators will sit on their hands and do nothing and then run away with the grand prize. From my administrative practice, to which you refer, I know that generally developers and governments have the same goals and try to get there. Then you can disagree at the end. Then there can be a public-law toolbox for it, but in principle that is a big exception, so that's why I got up for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u36	I admit it may have been entrapment, but we all know examples of developers who don't even want to develop but who take those ground positions, sometimes in areas where they think something is going to happen. For that strip, they'll ask for the grand prize, and you'll have to pay for it. There are too many examples of practice in addition to the good developers, where you refer to developers who do not want to be developers, but simply speculators. That's exactly what we need this stick behind the door for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u37	I myself have the impression that the expropriation law is meant for strips that are not there. It's taken over in the Supplementary Act. This is a matter of spatial development outside the planning area, which I believe is the subject of this public law regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u38	Expropriation and right of preference are also eased, but the cost story is the other side of the same coin. Once again, through these arrangements, we can call for cooperation rather than conflicting interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u39	Let me get this straight. Mr Rietkerk has just given a very limited, narrow explanation of the amendment. Do you read it like that or do you see much more space in it? How do you take the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u40	Yes, that is a very good question, also given answers from the Minister and the scientific articles we have received in recent days. It is basically about improving the quality of the physical environment or living conditions. not to deteriorate. Examples are mentioned as urban parks, green or the nitrogen approach, also mentioned by Mrs Moonen. In the answers to questions from D66, the SGP and from us we see that it can also be a contribution with social aspects, for example the share of social housing. I'd like to see it that way. Another example is to demolish old houses that remain in such a neighborhood. Or to improve or clean up another industrial area at the same time on a new industrial site, even though it may not be on the same ground. On the contrary, I welcome the fact that we have a broader definition of how to make a more comprehensive assessment through such instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u41	Clear. Mr Crone therefore opts for the generous exegesis. That would be preferable to this amendment and he is waiting for the Minister's response on how it should be read. Am I getting it together that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u42	Yes, policy-wise, it would be my wish to see it a little wider. We are now seeing examples where it does not happen properly and the bill ends up somewhere else. There must therefore be a balance with the private investor, which I would like to give all the returns, but that should not apply: the desire for the individual initiator and the burden only on the taxpayer. That balance is, of course, precarious. That is why this is a carefully drafted bill. As I understand it, in the AMvB's that are being hung back what exactly the boundaries are going to be. This is also a politically sensitive issue. I do not mean that youth workers should be paid here. I can also mobilise some of my supporters for that, but let's not do that. The fact that we all return to a more integrated socio-economic, physical balance by area is the core of the Environmental Act. So if it's not allowed here, then where is it? Such a scary definition is almost a reason to say that the enthusiasm has cooled a bit. By the way, there is always legal protection, because, I understand, this must always be indicated in advance in the environmental plans, the environmental permits or whatever. So it's really not like an alderman can suddenly say he's going to build something new for the citizens. That must all go carefully. So there is still legal protection. It's still a stick behind the door.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u43	Please continue your argument, Mr Crone, so you don't walk out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u44	Yes, that's fine, but with these answers I can shorten my argument a bit, so that saves me. I'm also surprised what happened in the Binckhorst, right around the corner. This is meant to be one of the example projects of the Environment Act. It's a project that doesn't meet, say, the minimum physical social requirements, such as cycling and recreation, including bike paths and parks. So has the municipality been sleeping there or has there been insufficient instruments? Would that have been easier under the new law? Could the city of The Hague have said: you can build thousands of houses but we tell you the cost of a bike path, a city park or whatever? Whether it is social or physical, in this case it is a missed opportunity on both points, which I understand from the newspaper, because we are, of course, waiting for the Minister's answer first. So would this have been better in the approach to the Environment Act? If not, then the Environment Act is a scare to me, because if things go everywhere like the Binckhorst, we've done something wrong. Mr. Chairman. Then there is an explicit question that is close to it. The amendment of Ronnes cum suis saw on the municipalities, but this is actually the province's problem. Some of them have also pointed out that provinces may need a similar spatial planning toolbox on regional and/or regional planning. provincial scale to implement the Climate Agreement, for example, so that compensation, cost story or whatever you want to call it can take place with regard to solar and wind farms, but perhaps also with regard to other issues under the Climate Agreement or otherwise. In this way, you can make investors pay, if necessary enforced by law, by nature development or by compensation for residents who suffer from it. Most of the Frisian wind farms that have come are citizens' initiatives because they can finance improvements for their own village or neighborhood from the proceeds. This gives a fair balance between the private profit for the developer and the interests of the citizens. So if I see it correctly, this could also be a positive argument to have a broader definition and to allow this to apply to the provincial administration. And that too will be neatly secured in the environmental permit. Conditions for compensation may be included. Another important advantage of a public law regime over a private law regime is that all the possibilities of objection and appeal are open to the decision itself on the basis of the environmental permit. It would then be possible to appeal to the initiator but also to third parties, which, I think, is far less the case in the case of private-law agreements. So that is another example, also from a democratic and constitutional point of view, which makes it seem to me that we can do this so well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u45	The provinces have opportunities to formulate policies in visions and environmental visions, regardless of the permit. In these environmental visions, it is quite common that you also talk about compensation principles and translate that into a regulation. That's a public record. How do you view this in relation to your wish for such legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u46	That is why this is partly an open question for the Minister. I do think that, as we arrange for the municipality through the Ronnes amendment, it could also be done in the same atmosphere for the provinces. If you say this doesn't add anything to what already exists, then it doesn't have to again. On the other hand, I think that if we had a broader definition, which we were just talking about, it wouldn't hurt. At least I hear from provincial circles that they would like that, because they would not have that discussion. So, as far as the provinces are concerned, if there were the same sheet as for the municipalities, it would be only pleasant. The question then is whether this fits in with the current legislation or whether, according to the Minister, new legislation is needed for it, whether or not in a novelle or in another law, but, I assume, not in AMvBs. Mr Verkerk also referred to this point. So I'm sure we'll get back to it in the second term... that we need to get this right. Mr. Chairman. Then there's another example. The construction of the wide lock in Kornwerderzand has also been decided in the House of Representatives. Entrepreneurs are going to pay for it. That has already been agreed, and this is what the shipyards want with regard to the ships that are being led through this new wide lock. Then they say: if we pay but there are freeriders in between who do not want to pay, what are we supposed to do? It is precisely entrepreneurs who are looking for a legal basis to pay for it all. I understand that it is also being discussed with the ministries. Then it seems to me to be the logic of this law that in the case of an infrastructure project, there is a kind of cost story possible with the initiators and in this case with the yards. I would like to hear from the Minister whether I can see that correctly and whether she can promote it. Mr. Chairman. I can be very brief about a number of other improvements, as others have already spoken about them and some have already been written off. This concerns, for example, the acceleration of the expropriation procedure from 23 to 17 months, which is a very good improvement, and the acceleration of the cost story. I also mention the fact that after the destruction of an environmental plan, the right of preference will continue to apply for two years. Thus, a deterioration in the draft law has also been brought through the House of Representatives. We also welcome the fact that the land consolidation can take place between rural areas and also urban areas, which Mr Van Dijk also mentioned a moment ago. It is true that there is still an exciting question as to why there is no tax equal treatment. Mr. Chairman. So let's close up sunny. The original draft laws would not have received our approval at all, but by joint action by the legislator and the co-legislator Tweede Kamer it now looks better. Nevertheless, I still have a few serious concerns to which my group would like to hear the Minister's response before a total weighing-up can take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u47	Thank you, Mr Crone. Finally, Mr Vendrik has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u48	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. I don't think it was a big male farmer family in 2008 with a history of centuries and it wasn't a noble family with a lot of old money, but it turned out to be a bank in 2008 that had the most extensive portfolio of speculative land positions. A bank. That is perhaps a good thing to realize today when we are talking about modern land ownership. These are often financial institutions today that do not acquire a basic position to develop or develop something there, as is often proposed in the debate and also here today, but they are financial institutions that have discovered this as a market of growing risk for less return, and they did so at that time. It's interesting to see that it actually happened by accident that we knew this. I'm talking about Fortis, part of ABN AMRO. You remember how in October 2008 the Dutch government took over the Dutch parts of that large, just new group. And by mistake Wouter Bos therefore actually implemented the largest nationalization of land ownership in Dutch history, without even knowing it. Exactly the same operation Joop den Uyl tripped over 31 years earlier. It is the irony of history and today, too, the lesson of what happened during that period is still relevant. Mr. Chairman. The Land Property Act is, of course, inextricably linked to the broad revision of the entire environmental law process. My colleague Saskia Kluit has already expressed the concern of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance about this extremely extensive operation in connection with the Environment Act which was recently discussed here. As far as we are concerned, the conditions for a successful landing of this operation and the implementation, which is now in the books before 1 January 2021, are not sufficiently in place. This concerns, for example, digital access and the taxation of the judiciary, but we also have serious concerns about the balance between protecting and exploiting. As far as we are concerned, the control of municipal councils, provincial states and citizens is not sufficiently assured. In this way my group cannot support this overall operation. Of course, that also plays this afternoon when discussing this specific supplement law. Mr. Chairman. The aim of this legislative proposal is, we understand, the government's commitment to transform the existing rules of preference, expropriation and land design into a new legal regulation as neutrally as possible. In addition, opportunities for lot exchange in urban areas and organic area development are added. This must then lead to a robust and enforceable system with a balance between the competent authority that monitors public interest and respect for the ownership of private landowners. While this legislative operation is under way, the cabinet is now facing the task of tackling the problem of nitrogen in 2020 and of tackling the acute problems in the housing market. Colleagues were right to talk about it. This minister knows that like no other. The problems in the housing market have recently been the subject of a strong debate in the House of Representatives, in which the cabinet, as we understand it, indicated that it wanted to conduct a more central direction on the housing issue. Now the question is whether that has any meaning for the present bill. It seems to us that this is the case. If so, what exactly is the situation? Please provide further explanation and explanation from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I'll come back to my beginnings. The following is relevant. The macroeconomic conditions of the Netherlands, which apply to many countries in the West, have changed considerably in recent years, particularly due to an ageing population and more extensive economic development, interest rates have fallen dramatically. That will remain the case in the years to come, no matter what the ECB does or does not. The result is that the further financialisation of the economy will be given an additional boost in a sustainable way. This is already visible in large cities, where capital seeks returns and provides itself with large positions on the real estate market. This is also essential for the future of the land market and now also noticeable and visible in rising land prices in the Netherlands. Investors are trying to secure good returns with the spread of land ownership and the taking of strategic speculative positions. That may seem rational from their point of view, but we see this with great care from the public interest. It leads to a driving effect of land prices, makes new construction more expensive, hinders the transition of common farmers, for example, to sustainable circular farming and undoubtedly also affects the impact of the competent authority on the impact of green land development and the opportunities for green land development. My question to this minister is how the government assesses this situation. In that light, does this legislative proposal offer the competent authority sufficient space to operate effectively in an overcrowded and crowded land market? That seems to us to be a relevant question here this afternoon. Mr. Chairman. I note that the more fundamental issue, of the value of land and of who is actually the future, an old classic issue, is not actually explicitly addressed in this legislative proposal. The starting point was, is and will continue to be the respect of private property rights, to which an exception may be made only in clearly defined cases. But that, as is clear from history, is certainly not self-evident. It is already clear from the position of the liberals that he was caught a century ago, who once, rightly, were at the basis of the present system of capital punishment. They already realised at that time that the value and any increase in value of land should always fall on the community. That debate is, as I have just said, topical again today. Land is and becomes an increasingly lucrative property in a busy country with many challenges. The increase in land value is generally the property owner, even if the increase in value is the result of public investment in an area. As far as we are concerned, this is an essential looming error in the current system. This is also going to become more and more apparent in the coming years. In the context of the cost story, an operator may indeed be called upon to contribute to the cost of these investments, but the real increase itself is not taken into account. Why is that even right? Why are we going through with this, I'm asking the government. Mr. Chairman. This Supplementary Act has been substantially amended in the House of Representatives, as has already been mentioned in detail in the written procedure by several political groups. My political friends in the House of Representatives wanted to contribute to this, and that has been very successful. This concerned part of the amendments aimed at maintaining the original provisions on the right of preference. This raises the following question: I think Mr Crone asked the Minister a similar question. Do I see it right that the government originally led to a policy-neutral transposition of standing rules into the Environment Act, but that that point of departure is rather deserted, as witnessed by the cabinet in the Lower House in the written discussion about this? To be honest, it is not quite clear to me how we should interpret the political history of this bill and when and when policy-rich transpositions are envisaged by the cabinet. As far as I am aware, the original legislative proposal submitted to the House of Representatives included changes of a material nature which, on balance, were beneficial to private landowners. I have already mentioned the preferential rights, but I also see the proposal for the suspensive effect of the claim of self-realization. These proposals are happy, I say with Mr Crone, rightly corrected by the House of Representatives. But where does this attitude of the government come from? What purpose was and does it intend to implement these policy changes in the original proposal? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to make a few separate comments. By letter of 3 February, the Minister indicated his intention to broaden the scope for private-law contracting of financial contributions in the designation decision. This naturally followed Mr Ronnes' amendment in the autumn. My question is what possible consequences this could have for renewable energy projects. We tried to spell out the Minister's letter of 3 February. Indeed, it is already practice that renewable energy project operators are often asked to contribute to, for example, an environmental fund. There is more than once room for shared local ownership. Mr Crone referred to that too. This has also been explicitly agreed for the coming years in the Climate Agreement. That is very good and crucial for a rapid transition. I assume, but just to be sure, that it is not the intention of this Minister that the proper exploitation of renewable energy projects should be subject to additional private financial contributions. What's the deal with that, exactly? Is there an anti-cumulation, a accumulation? What exactly are we heading for? There is no doubt that renewable energy project operators should also be asked to provide a fair share in the area where they operate. As far as we are concerned, local ownership and co-government of residents have the absolute right of preference, but the transition is intended to continue. I take it this Minister is very much in favour of that. I ask her for an explanation of what exactly the portee is. Mr. Chairman. I was charmed by Mr Verkerk's questions on the generic compensation scheme and I would like to join Mrs Moonen's questions on the mandatory re-location in urban areas. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u49	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik. I note that none of the Members wishes to speak in the first term. The Minister needs to suspend until 4:00 p.m. I suggest you do that. I would like to draw Members' attention to the fact that the IWO Committee will start in Committee Room 3 immediately after this suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u50	The Minister for the Environment and Living has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u51	Mr. Chairman. I thank Members for the questions. As with previous legal treatments, I do it in cubes, first a block of general, and then a block of finance. This includes the financial contribution, but also the compensation scheme and the cost story. Then I have another block that deals with spatial planning, expropriation and lot exchange. Finally, another block. A number of members have quoted quotes on ground. My father used to say, once again, when I was sent into the vegetable garden to get something good: "A good farmer eats something from his own land every day." In recent years, therefore, I have also given shape to this. Today we are discussing the law supplementing the Land Property Act. I would like to thank Members for their contributions. I would also like to thank Members on behalf of those who support me for their thanks. Before I go into the questions, I think it would be good to recall why this is an important part of the legislative proposal. The public authorities have tools to acquire land in certain situations, redesign areas, and recover the costs of public facilities from initiators. This can actually address social challenges in the area of housing, for example, a major issue at the moment. Various instruments are important, such as the establishment of a right of preference or expropriation. A number of Members of Parliament have rightly asked for a very careful treatment of the instrument expropriation, because that is a burden resort. These instruments are now scattered in the different laws. With the Land Property Act, the existing land policy tools become part of the system of the Environment Act. This brings together all these basic policy instruments for the first time. This law simplifies and modernises things. The instruments are not isolated, but should be seen in a broader context. With the rest of the instruments, we hope to achieve a future-proof and coherent package. It is important that this proposal also strikes a balance between the protection of property on the one hand and the possibility of new developments on the other. A number of existing instruments have been modified and modernised. New rules have also been introduced for urban lot exchange. A number of Members have spoken about this. The starting point remains equal legal protection and a balance between protection and exploitation. Then there are a number of specific questions. The House of Representatives has been able to improve the bill. During the drafting of the legislative proposal, the parties involved spoke in detail, informally and in the round of consultations. Advice has also been requested from various bodies, including the Council of State. All these reactions have led to improvements in the legislative proposal. When dealing with the various supplementary laws, it has been asked more often: was this bill intended to be policy neutral, yes or no? It's different from one bill to another. In such a course, which lasts ten years, policy development does not stand still either. Where there was only a transfer it was done neutrally. When policy-rich discussions were held in the meantime, they were immediately processed. There are indeed a number of innovations in the legislative proposal. The debate in the House of Representatives held an exchange of views on this subject. Many wishes were expressed at that time. That is also a good part of the legislative process. Amendments have been tabled. I have been asked to appreciate it, but I do not have to give it first, because Mr Knops has given it very often Chamber judgment. In doing so, he clearly indicated that he also considered that they were a good addition to or a good amendment to the bill. An example of this is the frequently mentioned Ronnes amendment on the public-law enforceable regulation of financial contributions, a broad-based wish of the House of Representatives, a new element, and certainly an improvement. Some Members of Parliament have referred to deterioration, but I do not think that is the case. There are innovations, but this is really an improvement. I think it is important to provide a good definition. That is what makes the amendment possible. As far as the cost story is concerned, amendments to the bill stipulate that a municipality may have to draw up a final bill no more than once a year and that, in the case of organic developments in the final settlement, cost types may be adjusted if the environmental plan has been worked out differently. This is new in relation to current law, because the organic development of the cost story is new. However, this is in line with the wish expressed in practice. Another example of an amendment concerns the right of preference, which could go through 16 years and three months under the old law. That has been shortened in the case of amendment. The proposal for self-realisation in the right of preference, when someone is willing and able to implement the plan, has been deleted by amendment. That was indeed a new proposal, but that was deleted by amendment. If expropriation has previously been successful in calling for self-realisation and the owner does not go ahead, there is a time limit. There is no such thing under current law. So that is also new, and I think that is also an improvement. It has also been ensured that the administrative judge always makes a thorough assessment of expropriation. That is especially an explication, more than that it is new. Mr Crone asked whether I share the view that the procedure relating to accessibility, answers and discussions could be improved. Yes, I have to say that it is. I propose that, when the complete versions of the Environment Act are incorporated into the Supplementary Act and are made available on the website, "links" to the other documents. Anyone who would like to look back later, can see the underlying pieces directly via those links. In this way we prevent a further combination of sudoku and NRC's cryptogram in the future. That's as a general introduction. Then I'll come to the block of financial questions. First of all, there is the generic financial contribution. The legislative proposal provides for a enforceable financial contribution to developments. This regulation has been incorporated through the Ronnes amendment. It allows municipalities to require public-law financial contributions to the development of an area through the environmental plan. This is an additional means of redress, in addition to the regulation of the cost story and the possibility of contracting under private law or on a voluntary basis in respect of that contribution. It therefore does not replace the scheme of the cost story. The Ronnes amendment is also subject to the criterion of functional coherence between development and construction activity, and categories of developments should be identified for this purpose. I believe that the Ronnes amendment can contribute to the social challenge we, as the Netherlands, are facing. A good demarcation is important. It can be found partly at the law level and is worked out in an AMvB. For example, the criterion of functional coherence between the activity of an initiator and the development for which a contribution is requested, e.g. infrastructure. The Chamber has highlighted several aspects of this discussion in this debate. That's quite right. That is why we have chosen to develop this in more detail in an AMvB. We're not doing that alone. We do this together with VNG, IPO and NEPROM. Then all the points will be dealt with. The debate will also be resumed here in the context of the veil. In this way, together with the cost-story scheme and the private and public-law possibilities, there is a good financial instrument box to deal with these challenges as public authorities towards the initiator. On the one hand, it is about building and housing areas and industrial sites and on the other hand it is about improving the quality of the environment. The SGP asked why any financial contribution is limited to construction and conversion projects. A certain definition is important, because not all promoters of activities can make such a contribution. Think of small-scale activities of citizens and businesses, such as building a home. Therefore, the scheme is limited to promoters who can expect ground revenues. If you don't have any ground results, then it's also hard to roam some of them. That's why this is limited. Private activities can be contracted with initiators of other activities, such as parking and event areas, but then there is also a return. Those parties can then talk to each other and see what is financially possible there. For example, private law can be customised, which is not possible under public law rules. The Christian Union asked whether it was true that the cost story and financial contribution scheme only concerns construction activities, and does not apply to environmentally harmful activities, discharge activities and the like. Yeah, that's right. The application of the public-law enforceable cost recovery scheme is limited to construction activities. That is actually a continuation of current practice. The financial contribution scheme is new. This is about the Ronnes amendment. In addition, I made a commitment to the House of Representatives in the framework of the veil to extend the private law regime for the contracting of financial contributions. I've also informed your room about that. As a result, it is possible to contract promoters of activities other than construction activities, e.g. an initiator of an environmentally harmful activity, in so far as such activity is accompanied by changes in the use of the site. That is what I am dealing with in the Supplementary Decree on Land Property, which is pending with your Chamber, before that Supplementary Decision is submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. In addition, the CDA and GroenLinks have asked whether the criteria of profit, proportionality and accountability have been lost. No, definitely not. These criteria apply within the cost recovery scheme, as is currently the case. This means that the cost recovery scheme can only be applied to provisions necessary to enable the new development. Public provisions that can be recovered from the PPP criteria must be recovered through the cost story scheme. In that case, an initiator cannot again be asked, for the same provision, to pay a financial contribution. So it is not the case that a financial contribution can also be requested for a provision which can be allocated partly through PPP. Will I at least come to a sharp framework when the supplementary decision is being amended? That is a question from the SGP. The AMvB provides for the designation of categories of developments for which a financial contribution may be required. A number of examples have also been mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to the amendment. A number of you have also referred to this. It is, of course, important that we define this in a good way, in order to have a balance between funding for development by developing parties and by municipalities. Otherwise, it won't work. So I'll keep an eye on that. And the AMvB will be put forward, so when we have had this whole discussion in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u52	I thank the Minister for this answer. It is indeed a good thing that the veil is coming to the Chamber. The framework is very important, says the Minister. My point was that I very much miss that framework in the amendment. There is a very long line in it: landscape, nature, water, nitrogen balance, roads, social housing on the outskirts, demolition of homes. Is the AMvB what the minister is talking about, in this line? Or can we expect it to be framed a little more precisely than in the explanatory statement to this amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u53	The House of Representatives of course adopted this amendment and this explanatory statement was part of the proposal that was there. So I don't think we can say in advance that we're going to be sitting in that very different place. However, we have also explicitly indicated that we should investigate and frame this further in a further AMvB. The amendment expressly allowed for this. That is what we are discussing with all stakeholders, in order to achieve a good and workable balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u54	The amendment is decisive, isn't it? The amendment defines a broader scope than Mr Van Dijk might want, but the House of Representatives has adopted the amendment in this way. Then the Minister isn't going to limit that, is he?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u55	I think I am saying that at the moment this does not seem to me to be the appropriate place for a reduction. A further demarcation has been requested in an AMvB. An explanation is of course something other than a legal text, so that leaves some room to discuss it. But the amendment was adopted, including its explanatory statement. This indicates what the initiators meant when they tabled the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u56	I would also like to repeat that to Mr Van Dijk. The Environmental Law is precisely intended to allow for full consideration. If you then reduce this again, you will no longer get an integral consideration, because everything has to be taken into account. And again: the protection is in the Environment Act, the permits, the environmental plan and what's more. So I would like to ask the Minister: don't limit it, because we're going to regret it again afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u57	I think this is a good illustration of why it is good that we should come to the Chamber with an AMvB on this. At that moment there is an opportunity to discuss this. For Mr Crone will also agree with me that the end of integrity is also that you involve everything. There is also an end to something that involves you in an integral consideration. Where exactly this dividing line should lie, we will discuss with the parties concerned on the basis of the amendment, including the explanatory statement as presented. Then we will return to you with a processing of the discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u58	Mr Van Dijk wishes to make another comment on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u59	Yes, I'm a little challenged by Mr Crone. Can I say that the Minister does not actually share the restrictive explanation given, for example, by my colleague Mr Rietkerk?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u60	The delineation is already at law level. A further framework of development will be done at AMvB. I am not going to speculate on what we will and will not do at this point. We have a clear frame-up in the law. This amendment has been tabled, including an explanation. There's gonna be an AMvB. We will certainly consider some of these questions, which are rightly put here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u61	Mr Rietkerk also wants to ask a question on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u62	Yes, on this point, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to respond through you to the Minister and Mr Van Dijk. It is a question of our group's demand for a definition. I have indeed seen that these are qualitative improvements. The Minister mentioned the elements, but it has to be delineated. I did not refer to a'stringing delineation'; those are the words of Mr Van Dijk. We are talking about a qualitative demarcation with a reasonable price. We look forward to the front of the AMvB. Because that's what it's all gonna be in, I'm asking the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u63	Sure. We come with this AMvB, and I certainly take note of the CDA's explanation of the delineation and its importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u64	The D66 Group welcomes the fact that environmentally damaging activities will form part of that explanation of the Ronnes amendment. Here's what I'm gonna do. This is held in the Lower House and the Upper House. I have asked the Minister to promise that this Environment Act will not enter into force until the amending act has been adopted by both Chambers. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u65	I'll come back to that later, because I don't exactly have that planning in my head. I don't want to make a commitment when I don't know it in advance. I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u66	I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u67	I would like a brief clarification from the Minister. Whatever demarcation the Minister comes with in an AMvB, it will never be so exhaustive that there is no possibility of unforeseen circumstances in the form of a hardness clause. That possibility must be there for things that we do not yet foresee, but which may be going to play in the future in the face of new problems. They may have to be able to play a role. As an example, I would just like to mention the problems with soil. I would like to mention that as a point of attention to the Minister towards the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u68	We'll take that into account, too. Not all proposals always provide for the hardness clause. But we'll consider this when we start talking about the AMvB. I'm gonna write down this point of the SP. Why does the basis for contracting not see changes in destination for event sites or solar panels? The bill provides for the possibility of contracting on financial contributions for construction activities. That is actually the continuation of the current possibilities under the Spatial Planning Act. So there was a great need for that broader basis. The private law rules governing the contracting of financial contributions are thus extended. I've informed your room about that, too. As a result, it is also possible to contract with promoters of activities other than construction activities, e.g. changes in use as described by Mr Van Dijk. The CDA also asked for a further explanation of what is possible. The public-law scheme for financial contributions contributes to improving the quality of the environment. I would like to give you examples of landscape integration or the demolition of obsolete vacant stables or stalls in the outskirts. At the same time, the legislative proposal prevents unreasonably high contributions from being demanded, because no more can be asked than the proceeds of the land allow. I think that was the balance that Mr Rietkerk was just looking for. I say to the Labour Party that in the explanatory statement to the amendment, the realisation of social housing and demolition of housing are also mentioned as examples for which a contribution can be requested. And once again, these are important points of departure for further development. Is there sufficient safeguards for arbitrariness, as mandatory financial contributions must be indicated in advance policy in the environmental plan? In my view, this is an important question raised by the Labour Party. Yes, a basis in the environmental plan also gives citizens and businesses guarantees. After all, you need to know what you're up to when you get to work. So the environmental plan can only oblige promoters to make a financial contribution if there is a functional coherence between existing activities and development. The environmental plan may be reviewed by the Administrative Court if an appeal is brought. At the front there is participation on the environmental plan. So the rules are known to everyone at the front of development. Moreover, financial contributions should only be spent on the developments for which they have been requested, and should also be regularly accounted for in order to avoid tax and arbitrariness. I expect to be able to offer the AMvB to your room around the summer. We strive for a simultaneous entry into force with the Environment Act. That's the goal. Mrs. Moonen asked for this. Whether that really works depends, of course, on the treatment in the different Chambers. Anyway, if it won't be just before, it'll be just after. It shall enter into force shortly after its entry into force. We are striving for simultaneous, but if this is not possible, then until then there is an opportunity to agree on a financial contribution under private law, because that is the current practice. But we hope, of course, for simultaneous action as soon as possible. Among other things, Mr Crone asked why the provinces do not also have the power to demand a public financial contribution. The power to impose the contribution is linked to new construction activities. The municipality is the one that gives permission to do so. The power to demand a financial contribution and to grant permission to build you want to hold in one hand, also because the contribution should not exceed the proceeds and the like. The proceeds are derived from the increase in the value of the land. The municipality is best placed to determine this increase, because it has local knowledge of the market. However, the province is not empty-handed. They can, however, enforce a financial contribution by means of instructional rules, e.g. for an improvement in the off-site area. I'll come back to that later. Does the Minister support the direction of VNG and IPO on the contracting of financial contribution for use changes? The letter of amendment provides for the possibility of contracting on that financial contribution for construction activities. Again, this concerns the continuation of the Spatial Planning Act. I think we've already had this answer. As a result of the new private law regime, it is also possible to contract with promoters of activities other than construction activities. VNG and IPO have agreed to this extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u69	Then there is an interruption by Mr Rietkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u70	The Minister clearly indicated that the municipalities are the primary responsibility for these construction activities and that therefore that competence lies there. Can I put it this way that if municipalities do not come to take responsibility and there is a provincial interest in a construction activity, if an incorporation plan takes the province in place of a municipality and that the instruments are applicable?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u71	In fact, it is an interesting question whether this transmission is also there when it comes to integration. I will come back to that in the second period to see exactly how that is legally regulated. I will come back to the question of whether we need more than what we have now. There is now an extension and there will be an AMvB, but is there any need for more? This is actually the question of the generic compensation scheme. Among other things, the Christian Union and the Labour Party are asking for this. On the other hand, in that same angle, of the SGP among others, but also of the VVD, I hear concerns about a generic compensation scheme. The current bill contains several new proposals. You are asking for an investigation into a wider scheme that also looks at environmentally harmful activities. I understand the question, but I also see a number of hooks and eyes on it. Environmental activities and initiatives will also be assessed as to whether financial compensation is necessary. In addition, there are already specific levies for a number of activities, such as a discharge levy. If there is an environmentally damaging activity, there is another way to ensure that the costs do not end up with the taxpayer in general. This can lead to an undesirable accumulation or complexity. It may also have an impact on the local system of charges such as waste and sewer taxes and waterboard taxes. For a study, which a number of groups want, it is good to map out all these kinds of questions very well. I am quite prepared to look again at the functioning of the proposals that we are already proposing for cost recovery and financial contribution. In that context, I'd also like to see if we think there's a hole somewhere. There was also reference to Kornwerderzand. That's one of those things where you wonder if that fits within what we have or if there's a hole somewhere. Then again it is the balance or we think we should do something about it. It is also questionable whether the provinces have sufficient instruments, yes or no. So, I am prepared to look closely at the functioning of these different proposals and to look again in the context of the evaluation to see whether there are gaps and what the proposals are for this, with the various advantages and disadvantages identified. I'm not going to tell you in advance that we should do this. It is always good to think, even if you add up the new elements that we have now, and when evaluating what has become apparent from the operation, whether we still see gaps, whether there are solutions and what are the advantages and disadvantages of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u72	I would like to thank the Minister for this commitment, because this was actually our intention. There's a lot of stuff in there. Let us see if there are holes and if there are holes, let us fix them in such a way that legal certainty, but also speed, can be guaranteed for businesses and for citizens. With the commitment you have made, we are quite happy to answer our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u73	Very nice. We certainly take this issue of speed and legal certainty as a way of thinking when we may encounter a gap and see if we can improve on this issue of speed and legal certainty. We'll sort out the pros and cons. Then the point of the cost story. D66 asked if it is necessary and possible to support municipalities in expropriation and cost story. Municipalities of course already have extensive experience with these instruments from the past, but it is important that we support municipalities in the implementation of the Environment Act, as in the width of the municipality. Yes, we will. We will also pay attention to this through the inter-administrative programme Getting started with the Environment Act. We also help them with a hand delivery of land ownership, including e.g. expropriation and right of preference, and also a hand delivery Cost story. This hand-out gives practical guidance and examples for practice. There will be further information meetings and the Environmental Information Point will also answer questions. This in response to the question of whether there is sufficient expertise to deal with it in a good way. Then it was asked whether the licensing rules on cost recovery provide less legal certainty than cost recovery rules. Are they being judged differently by judges? The first was a question from D66 and the second from the CDA. No, that's not the case. If construction activities are authorised by an environmental permit by way of derogation from the environmental plan, the cost story should also be regulated by that environmental permit. In this case, the environmental permit is an alternative to changing the environmental plan. That is a continuation of the current system. It allows governments to make full use of the instruments. The legal framework for cost story is the same for both types of decision-making. Therefore, a difference in the assessment of licensing rules and cost recovery rules is not envisaged. If there are any questions about this, I think it would be good to keep an eye on this point, to see if it is being dealt with differently in practice. So, let's just put this down as a point that we stay focused on. GroenLinks asked about the financial contribution to sustainability initiatives. The group asked whether I am sure that we should continue to develop renewable energy. I am not the renewable energy minister, so to speak, but Mr Vendrik knows how I feel. In the context of the extension of the Land Property Act, I made a commitment to the House of Representatives to extend the private law regime for the contract of financial contribution. A financial contribution can also be agreed for buildings for energy generation. This is important, because municipalities can thus contract with promoters of energy projects. This is important because municipalities also have the task of achieving the energy transition. It is therefore important that municipalities should be able to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u74	A question to the Minister. Is the movement linked to land yields or to energy revenues when it comes to renewable energy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u75	There, the same reasoning will be used as for the other degree of achievement of land yields. I don't see why you would reason differently for the energy revenues in that than in other projects. Why are value increases in the cost story scheme excluded if this is due to public investment? One starting point of the bill is that builders and developers only have to pay for the costs of government investments. The land market is a free market, and as in other markets, builders and developers take risks and can make profits or losses. That's why the government can't demand the whole increase in value. Moreover, the legislative proposal does offer ample opportunities to recover costs and ask for financial contributions as tools to finance public services.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u76	In response to the Minister's previous answer to my question: my possible concern, which my real question was, of course, about, was the following. I would like to assume that the Minister is a fan of more renewable energy in the Netherlands, like many here. But it's about the accumulation. Renewable energy operators usually, not always, already have a form of shared ownership with local residents, whether or not in a corporate context. Producers and operators contribute more than once to a local environmental fund. The question is whether this route, of an extra private contract, leads to a accumulation of costs. Do we have a clear view that this does not entail a accumulation of costs in such a way that it simply prevents the normal exploitation of renewable energy projects? That was my concern, and I would like an explicit answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u77	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u78	Since municipalities play such an important role in achieving this energy transition, they also have an interest in ensuring that projects they need for regional energy strategies are not made impossible by stacking. That is certainly an aspect to be taken into account. In these cases, moreover, there is no obligation to provide a cost story, but an opportunity to ask for a financial contribution. If municipalities are of the opinion that this makes the project itself impossible, because, for example, it has been chosen to involve the environment very widely, so that there is little room left in the business case to allow a project to continue, with support of the environment, they are not obliged to go into cost stories. That's a choice. Can cost stories also be used in large infrastructure projects? That's the point of Kornwerderzand. Cost story is possible under the Environmental Law under private law and public law. If infrastructure involves building, costs can be recovered. How this works exactly in the case-Kornwerderzand I did not have any sharpness, but in my promise just now I said that we are going to see how the current system is working out on this kind of specific projects, whether there is a gap there and what the solutions are. Wider, namely in the context of the construction of infrastructure, is the question of how to make this possible with one another. In fact, Mr Crone's question is somewhat in that context. Those were the answers to questions about the cost story. Then I come to questions about lot exchange and then to expropriation. The redevelopment of urban areas may be hampered by fragmented ownership. The urban lot exchange creates an additional opportunity to deal with this. At least three owners can exchange land and/or stables independently and after mutual consultation. This will improve the layout of the area. For two and a half years, together with the Kadaster and a wide-scale sounding board group, the possibilities of urban lot exchange have been tested through the Urban Lot Exchange Stimulation Programme. As the programme's annual report shows, the experience is positive. Urban lot exchange has potential in areas where ownership is fragmented. The programme has fostered awareness and application of lot exchange. A good example, to make it concrete, is the Merwedekanaanzone in Utrecht, where municipalities and owners prepare a new plan, regardless of the limits of ownership. In the meantime, an intention agreement has been signed as a basis for further cooperation and exchange of property. The housing crisis was a good example where a very large number of new homes are realized within the city. The Christian Union asked about the letter from the KNB and my response to it. The letter is known to me. About the boundary between rural and urban areas the following. The notary checks a lot exchange against its description in the bill and against the criteria laid down for the lot exchange rural area. If lots with an urban function are involved in the exchange, there is no lot exchange rural area. The municipality defines what belongs to urban area and the notary is simply going to check which lots it concerns and where they fall under: under the definition of the lot exchange urban area or not. Actually, that's how it is. In the programme Getting started with the Environment Act, particular attention will be paid to lot exchange, and a practical manual will also be published to remove any uncertainties here. The question then was whether registration of the lot exchange agreement was an obligation. The draft law explicitly stipulates that the lot exchange agreement is to be entered in the public registers. As a result, it will have the desired business effect, which means that any successors under special titles will be bound to the lot exchange agreement. It is also stipulated that the subsequent action, resulting in the acquisition of property ownership rights in immovable property, shall be entered in the public registers. The explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal also makes it clear that the parties have no choice as to the registration in the registers. Then there was the question as to whether it was clear to the notary that he had to investigate in the processing of a re-arrest document. The notary has an obligation to investigate the Land Registry and investigates the legal status of the real estate listed in the Relandings Act. That is, of course, one of the core tasks of the notary. The search for a notary at a re-arrestation certificate is similar to the investigation that takes place during a regular transfer. D66 asked whether the Minister considered it possible for the government to actually make this instrument possible in the event of positive research results regarding the introduction of mandatory urban land consolidation. Yes, the government has an open attitude towards urban land consolidation. It has advantages and disadvantages, but that is why we should also consider what a mandatory urban land consolidation scheme could look like and what its effects would be. If that research is available, we will be happy to discuss it. Then there is the need for improvement in the case of voluntary lot exchange, on which the SGP asked a question. Why is the specific improvement requirement not deleted or the legal text clarifies that the specific improvement requirement does not need to be assessed independently? The improvement requirement for lot exchange is an important requirement in relation to the efficient use of public funds. That requirement is important for exemption from transfer tax. That is why this demand is made for improvement. The exemption therefore applies only to a lot exchange rural area which aims at an improvement. Otherwise, that exemption will not apply. The Tax Administration also checks whether these conditions for exemption from transfer tax are met. Moreover, this improvement requirement is not a new requirement, it is already covered by the current legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u79	I confess I find it pretty complicated. But it still sounds like a double-up to me. In the note on the report, the Minister said that this general improvement requirement of section 12.1 does not apply to section 12.6, which regulates voluntary lot exchange. But voluntary lot exchange is also land development. So what does that specific improvement requirement of 12.6 add?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u80	If you want to use the exemption from the Law on Tax on Legal Traffic on the basis of that lot swap, so if we are simply going to spend taxpayers' money on it, then it must also lead to improvements in the rural area. Therefore, that requirement for improvement is a condition for obtaining the financial advantage. That's how you're supposed to see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u81	But that's already in section 12.1, isn't it? Isn't that what this voluntary lot swap is about? Isn't that the need for improvement at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u82	That improvement requirement is in any case on the agenda? Let me see if we can get some clarification on this particular point. 'Cause maybe we're having a semantic discussion. The essence is that, if you want to use an exemption from tax that applies to other transactions, there is a condition attached to it, namely that requirement for improvement. Then expropriation. Some speakers referred to the 170-year-old Expropriation Act. After 170 years, we want to streamline expropriation, better regulate legal protection and facilitate procedures. There is a sharp separation between the expropriation procedure on the one hand and the compensation procedure and other procedures on the other. Both procedures are carried out separately from each other. Administrative bodies are themselves responsible for a good expropriation decision. The administrative judge will be involved in all expropriations. The compensation procedure has been modernised by aligning it with regular procedural law. The judge can direct this part of the proceedings more. The notary takes care of the transfer of ownership, so that for one last time it can be checked that the expropriation is in order. I indicated at the beginning of my speech that expropriation under the new law remains an extremely important tool. Whether it concerns housing, a motorway, a wind farm or a nuclear power plant, expropriation remains a careful procedure and legal protection. It is important that this legislative proposal does not broaden the scope for expropriation. Even now, it could be expropriated for a nuclear power plant, a solar field or a wind farm. This legislative proposal does not extend these possibilities. It is always checked whether there is an expropriation interest and whether there is a need and urgency. The level of legal protection also remains equivalent, but legal protection is now largely governed by administrative law rather than by civil law. Each expropriation involves a test by the judge. The SGP asked a question about third party appointments and personal service. The third party appointment is regulated in the legislative proposal, in Article 15.38. That article regulates the third party appointment for the owner, the rental buyer and the tenant with perpetual lease and heir. As far as personal service is concerned, I would like to point out that the chances are minimal. I can see that the SGP can also imagine this. In the mandatory pre-consultation process, the public authorities must make efforts to reach the right holders. That is, of course, being assessed in the procedure. The effect is assessed, so not so much the remedy. Parties received from both the administrative body and the court shall be notified each time. In the proceedings on compensation before the court, the owners and limited entitled persons are also called in by registered letter. So someone must have missed all the messages in the different phases. Of course, the judge's gonna see if that's all done properly. If someone is really untraceable, then that is the other side of the coin. It is the question whether a project of general interest should not be allowed to continue for that reason. That would be the effect of making personal service an absolute condition. I think it is important that expropriation is possible in the end. The procedure must, of course, be followed carefully, but I think that we have the right balance. What is the Minister's view of the time needed for file-making? Doesn't that still lead to delays, when the aim is to speed up? No, because unlike in the present situation, the competent authority is preparing the expropriation decision. So the time involved in the preparation is the same time that is now involved in the preparation of the Crown's application. That too must be done. But unlike now, there is no longer any chance of delay because the Crown will not return the file. That's actually what you're getting out of. That is what the competent authority has in its own hands. So much for the question of expropriation. I shall now turn to a number of other questions. Questions have been asked about housing, among other things. A roadmap for housing is requested. The Labour Party and also GroenLinks have referred to the great urgency of housing. On 18 February I sent a letter to the House of Representatives which, as far as I am concerned, contains the approach for the coming period. I think we have two very important issues in the housing market. The first is how we can achieve more homes as quickly as possible.... and not just more homes, but also the right homes.... not only on the basis of the figures we used to date, but also on the basis of the figures recently updated by..................................................................................................................................................................... Moreover, these figures call for a further effort to determine what kind of additional housing is needed. That's one. In addition, we are still a few years with scarcity. For even if we now decide to build houses, they will not be there tomorrow. This also means that we have another discussion with each other on the question of housing distribution and how we can combat excesses in this area. I have announced to the Chamber that we will come up with a letter on this matter. As a cabinet, we made 2 billion available and gave a discount on the landlord's tax in order to allow specific additional housing. So a lot of money has been allocated to give a boost to housing. But even with extra money, you won't have homes tomorrow. There must be sufficient planning capacity and the plans must also be implemented. If housing corporations realise 60% of the plans they have themselves made within the current financial framework, something goes wrong somewhere. So then we also lack a piece of capacity that we hope will be able to achieve as soon as possible. I sat around the table with the deputys yesterday or the day before yesterday. We agreed with each other that we really want to have a map of what exactly is the task per province before the summer. It is also very different from one province to another. Some provinces mainly have a restructuring objective, while others have a large growth target. There may also be differences within a province. In one part of a province there may be a large growth target, while in another part of that province there may be a restructuring objective. We are going to map this well, and we will also identify precisely the reasons that ensure that housing projects that we had planned do not end up getting off the ground. What exactly is that in? A good example of how we recently built up together with the province is the discussion about Valkenburg. That was a housing project that was stuck for a very long time. With the province, the municipality and the Rijksvaastgoedbedrijf we went to the table to see exactly what it is about and how we could get that project untied as soon as possible. We have been negotiating very intensively with each other for a number of weeks and looking at how we could do that in every way. Now we've got it through, with a weak business case, with extra middle-segment homes for the teacher and the agent looking so hard for such a property. We just made it possible to start there. In the face of this great urgency, intensive cooperation will enable us to ensure that these homes really get there quickly, as well as the use of the resources of the Empire. Then those homes will still not be there tomorrow, but no one can promise that a house will be there tomorrow, no matter where one sits, but as soon as possible. If we pull this as hard as we can with all the parties, then we can do so. Beautiful examples have also been shared between the provinces. One of you referred to the way in which agreements were made in Zwolle, including with the construction sector, in order to come to fruition together. Zwolle just goes for 100% realization of the plans she has made. That is, of course, the shortest blow. In addition, we must use sufficient plans, not only on the basis of the old figures we had, but also on the basis of the new figures, with particular attention being paid to homeless people and elderly people's homes. We see the great challenges coming towards us. We are all working very hard on that. We do not exclude any instrument. We use the full instruments from the Wro, soon the Environment Act. The same applies to the current instruments of basic policy. The Land Property Supplement Act increases the effectiveness even further. For example, the municipality can include the requirements of a construction plan in the environmental plan, including the cost story. The municipality can then recover the costs, so that they do not constitute an obstacle. The bill also offers opportunities to provide organic area development. The municipality can also draw up rules to ensure sufficient social rental, middle rent and free lots. The municipality can include a phaser in an exploitation plan to enable timely realization. This can already be done gradually if the whole plan is not ready. If necessary, the municipality can use the right of preference and expropriation. We are working hard on this. The question is how the use of the National Real Estate Company can give an impetus. I have just mentioned the example of Valkenburg, where we have done so. The regional development programme of the Rijksvoestgoedbedrijf has also appointed projects where state real estate can indeed be used as a catalyst for societal challenges. In Valkenburg we showed how we can do that. Locations in Almere are also looked at. These are locations where really a significant number of homes can be realized. The Rijksvaastgoedbedrijf actively participates in the implementation of the housing deals. Where possible, the National Real Estate Company therefore makes a contribution from its assets. Then it could be land, but it could also be real estate transformations. In the recent debate in the House of Representatives, I promised to look together with colleague Knops where we can make even more use of the Rijksvaastgoedbedrijf to hunt down as much as possible as quickly as possible. Asked what went wrong with the development plan for the Binckhorst. Fortunately, it has already been mentioned that some things in the newspaper may also give a certain view of reality, which can be opposed to a different view. We have been in contact with the municipality of The Hague. That assures us that there is really being sent to sufficient social facilities on the Binckhorst. The municipality has adopted a provisioning programme and uses various instruments to achieve this, through the environmental plan, through the use of own land and resources, and through the pooling of supply and demand. Due to the absence of a ceiling in the rules of the environmental plan in the area of social services, they can always be added during the development of the plan and thus respond to the situation in the area during the transformation. It is therefore intended precisely to be flexible, but the municipality has clearly established a plan of provision, because in that district too, of course, all the facilities must be available.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u83	Then there is an interruption by Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u84	Not about The Hague, but about the Minister's previous reply. The question was whether the legislative proposal before us is helpful in realising an extra and faster effort for the new construction assignment. This ultimately comes down to the question of whether there is an indication in the current practice that private landowners have an obstructive effect on the rapid realisation of new buildings. I also hear the Minister say that she is trying to find out what is actually going on here and why it is so difficult to meet the ambitions originally envisaged for new construction. After all, what is being realized is very different from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u85	That is a lot of questions in one, but the core thing is that I think we need to get a clearer picture of what the production is all about. Let me give an example of what I saw in the context of the nitrogen problem. I'll get back to you on that. Building the low nitrogen is very important. For example, to build low nitrogen, you can use an electric generator. In order to use an electric generator, you need to have a connection from the network company in order to draw such a heavy current. If that connection is not made, that generator cannot be started, the nitrogen arm cannot be built and the housing cannot start. That is, of course, of a very different order than a private-law obstacle or the preparation of a private party. In the case of Valkenburg, the question was real: how do the various wishes, including the desire to allow more middle-segment homes, fit into the ability to run a black-digit business case by the Rijksvastgoedbedrijf? That's just what jigsaw asked, but we got out of it. It is therefore not clear what it depends on. That is why I think it is so important that in all these provinces we look specifically at questions like "where does this project hang?" And "what can we do with each other to untie these projects?" So that's gonna be pretty diverse.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u86	When would the Minister be able to tell us more about this? In this way, we have a somewhat rural image of where the new building stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u87	I think it is clear in itself that there are staggering projects. For example, the State of the housing market and the report on housing corporations show that only 60% of the plans that the housing corporations thought they would realise within the current financial constellation have been realised. So it's in the picture that it's sticking. Now the question is, how do we make sure we pull it off? With the provinces around the summer, we really try to get a picture of what the task is, what things can stick and what we can do about it, but we are actually working on each other every day to see if we can pull things off. With something like Valkenburg, we didn't wait until the inventory. When you figure that out, you're gonna get to it. Ideally, you communicate that something's been ripped off instead of where it's still sticking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u88	Mr Vendrik, for the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u89	I understand, but I'm just trying to get back to what we're talking about today. I'm simply trying to answer the question for myself: is this bill helping or are private property rights being protected just a little too much? I ask the government to assist us in answering that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u90	In this way, Mr Vendrik actually assumes that the stakes depend on the protection of private property rights. That's actually what he... Well, let's just say I don't think you can say that as cross-the-board. The examples I have mentioned do not go in that direction at all. This bill integrates ground policy with the other instruments. What is new in the Environment Act is to facilitate that organic area development. If you have an idea that you want to develop an entire area, but if you don't have all the plans in its entirety yet and you want to develop it organically, that is something that can be done with this new bill and which didn't exist before. So that helps.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u91	Mr. Vendrik, this will be your fourth interruption at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u92	If you'll allow me one more time, Mr. President. After that, I really disappeared, at least at the interrupting microphone. In this legislative proposal, I think, I have the right to ask what is actually going on here, given the new building crisis and the search of the cabinet. The Minister tells us: by the summer we know more about exactly where it is sticking and then we try to clean it up. She's already working on that. I have to say, then, that today we are not actually getting an adequate response from the cabinet to the question of whether this bill will help to a sufficient extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u93	Mr Vendrik is now tying two things together. The question is whether the legislative proposal will help in a positive way or create a further obstacle. I think the bill will help. I just gave you a concrete example of how I think it helps, namely because it also makes organic development possible. You can include the phasering in the exploitation plan if it is necessary, at least to get started with part of the plan if not everything would be complete. That helps. It helps with a gear. So I certainly think this will help, but it is not the case that the Environment Act solves the whole problem in the housing market. We have already said in the context of the Environment Act: there are a number of issues in this country; they were there for the Environment Act, which are now there during the examination of the Environment Act and will be there afterwards. They won't all be gone with the Environment Act. The Environment Act is not the only instrument that can deal with it. Then an unjustified link would be made with the purpose of the Environment Act. But the Environment Act certainly helps with the issue before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u94	My question refers back to this debate, but I'm going back to the Binckhorst. Of course, I am not necessarily concerned with an assessment of the Binckhorst, because that does not suit us, but within the framework of this law, my question is: how could they have already agreed on housing, while those physical facilities were not arranged in urban parks, bicycle paths? Then the municipality can't say "I'm doing a cost story" after that, can it? They should have said that in advance. Now the developer can sit on his hands, as I have just said, so of "the municipality wants what and I'll pay a little too, because then those homes will be worth more." The latter will be the case, but it is almost negotiated afterwards and then you will never be strong. The beautiful thing about the Environment Act was that the Environment Act would guarantee an integral treatment. You just talked about that, too. Of course, you don't solve all the problems of the world, but if you don't start integrally, Alice in Wonderland says: "If you don't know where you want to come from, you'll definitely come out somewhere else."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u95	The municipality of The Hague has therefore also adopted a programme of provisions. How the city of The Hague then thinks it should make financial agreements on this, is then, of course, up to the municipality of The Hague. But it is not the case that the city of The Hague came up with an idea afterwards: we also have a question of social services. So they've set up that facility program. They also use different tools to realize that. They're deploying the environmental plan for that. Think also of the use of own land and resources. But then, I think, we're going too much into the specific case. I do share with the Labour Party that it is important that, in the area development at the front, you also consider how to use the various instruments effectively to ensure that the public facilities needed to make such development possible can also be co-financed as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u96	I won't make it long, Mr. Chairman. We will keep an eye on whether they say: if we had started earlier, we could have done more expense stories. That's more my point. It will all be fine, but for the cost story they may be too late, although I hope not natural.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u97	This is perhaps something for the city council of The Hague to relate to the alderman who made these plans. Mr. Chairman. Some of you have referred to the issue of the direction in the housing statement. That may also be more important for the debate on the housing market, but I think it is important. On the one hand, there is, of course, a great deal of decentralisation. After all, it is not even the province that builds itself; it is the municipalities that make locations available and make these agreements. On the other hand, we must work together to ensure that the sum total of all these decentralised decisions ultimately leads to a result that meets the great challenge that exists. That is why I think it is important that the Empire should take the lead in this joint task towards the provinces and the province to the municipalities. That very much more strongly steering each other at enough volume and tempo is really something we are doing. That also affects the question about the NOVI letter. What's "early spring" now? We have already had this debate in detail here. I had just indicated that although the February letter was so hot, it was not my intention to send it in February, because there was still a need for further consultation, but that it would not be June, which could also be counted until spring. I even remember referring to my own birthday at that time because I always have the feeling that my birthday is in the summer. If you can remember that, you know that I hope to be able to send you the letter sometime in April.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u98	Mr Crone is not quite satisfied yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u99	I remember very well that your birthday is too late. There's nothing you can do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u100	It's my birthday right on time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u101	At the time you said: I would also love June. Then I said: well, at least March must succeed. Then you shut up. And whoever shuts up agrees. March isn't April.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u102	That's your interpretation of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u103	We will examine with the help of our excellent stenography service what the commitment was in the context of this Novi.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u104	Fine. You're looking into that. Excellent. "The early spring" is what I like about that. But I'm glad to see you're still eagerly looking forward to the letter. Is the Minister prepared to make nuclear power stations possible? That was a question from Mrs Bezaan. This legislative proposal regulates how various area developments can be achieved, with a careful balance being maintained between the private interests of landowners and the general interest. This bill, therefore, does not regulate a specific desired development. This could include housing, a business site, nature development or a nuclear power plant. Moreover, decisions on the possible implementation of nuclear power plants are primarily based on the Nuclear Energy Act. This law is the responsibility of the Minister of EZK. The same applies to the question of whether the construction of nuclear power plants makes the construction of wind farms superfluous. With all social partners in the Climate Agreement, the cabinet is fully committed to the energy transition. The extension of nuclear power plants is not part of the Climate Agreement, but decisions on the possible implementation of nuclear power plants are made through the responsibility of the Minister of EZK. Then there were questions about how the legislation on nitrogen, including the natural bank and the emergency law, now relates to the current legislation. The tools of the Land Property Supplementary Act can be supportive for the area-oriented policy. This is aimed at achieving the conservation objective of the Natura 2000 sites. The rules of the Emergency Act approach nitrogen on the nitrogen registration system with deposition space for construction are included in the Nature Protection Act. Those rules are enshrined in the system of the Environmental Act through the supplemental track nature, which I believe we are talking about on 17 March. In the case of the nature bank, a separate legislative proposal has yet to be put into action. This was not part of the E.R. approach to nitrogen. From the beginning it was clear that this would be the subject of a separate legislative proposal. Newly developed compensation nature will be included in the nature bank. It concerns nature which can be used for the authorisation of projects which could lead to the degradation of nature in Natura 2000 sites. This is about projects that have passed the ADC test. It is obvious that the proposed legislation should be incorporated into the system of the Environment Act. The emergency law has been passed by your Chamber before Christmas and the Minister of LNV has sent a letter stating that for the nature bank and water safety projects an emergency law is not an additional tool for the necessary pace. A further consideration has simply been made as to whether an emergency law is needed. Mr Janssen specifically asked for this. The Minister's assessment was that this was not necessarily necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u105	First of all, I think we should be pleased that the Minister's birthday is not on 29 February, because it would take us much longer to get a letter, I say to Mr Crone. My question was actually a little more precise. There's going to be a nature bank now. We are going to discuss this in two weeks' time in the Minister's esteemed presence. Her presence is a common thread here in this Chamber, just like the topic of nitrogen, which we're going to pick up in two weeks. There would be an emergency law that, in my view, would, in conjunction with the emergency law, provide for a translation into the legislation as the Minister just said. But there's not going to be that emergency law, so that's what this nature bank is for instead. But is that natural park gonna do the same thing as the emergency law? Is this Supplementary Decision going to have the same effect? We're gonna talk about it in two weeks, so that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u106	Yes, I think it would be a good idea to consider that in two weeks' time. But the emergency law provides for the nitrogen registration system. That system is important for all subsequent steps. In addition, the nature bank is also another tool where you can actually put natural balance on the bank, so to speak, for a project that has passed the ADC test, to use the compensation where necessary. For water safety projects it has been said: it is in any case extremely important that housing, water safety and a number of major infrastructure projects continue. They can therefore use part of that nitrogen registration bank. There's been separate funds put aside for those water safety projects. It is perhaps appropriate to discuss further in two weeks' time whether this will be put on the nitrogen bank as with some kind of bank account, or whether it will be spent directly on projects in another way. But it is not the case that it necessarily took a separate legislative process to get these projects to work in the end. That's why a separate emergency law hasn't been adopted anymore. Mr Verkerk asked whether "custom rules" in the further reply refer to customised rules that make use of them and do not protect them. With customization, a general rule can be made appropriate for the local situation. Sometimes it calls for a stricter rule, such as the protection of soil in a groundwater protection area. Sometimes there is room to relax a general rule of state, but customization always involves the purpose and scope of the national rules. Local authorities cannot therefore set aside the objective behind the state rule. And customisation must not lead to, for example, significant contamination. In the relevant passage in the further reply on tackling the problem of nitrogen, the aim was to improve the protection of the environment by means of tailor-made measures, i.e. to clarify or tighten up the general rule of the state in a given area. One example is the tightening of emission limit values for the emission of stables that are very close to a Natura 2000 site. Then you may not want to make generic demands everywhere in the province or in the municipality, but perhaps you want to be able to make specific demands on stables that are on the edge of such a Natura 2000 site and have a direct impact on the conservation status. Mr. Chairman. Finally, there was the issue of evaluation. We discussed this at length during the debate on the introduction law. After five years there will be an evaluation, but also an annual report to the Chamber containing the monitoring results, the progress of the implementation and my findings and actions. In this way, we will monitor the effectiveness and effects of the law immediately after its entry into force. If it turns out something's not going well, we're not gonna wait five years for a law review, of course. In monitoring and evaluation, I will also pay attention to the use of private law contracts in practice; that was another specific question from Mr Verkerk. Mr President, I hope that I have answered the questions raised by Members in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u107	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Bezaan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The current energy strategy with weather-dependent and supply-driven delivery requires an enormous amount of ground space in our small country. The space in square meters for nuclear power stations is a fraction of that. I thank the Minister for answering my questions. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment and Living the following questions. What environmental impact does the production of wind turbines have? What environmental impact does the treatment of old batteries, wind turbines and solar panels have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u109	Thank you, Mrs Bezaan. Then I'm going to see Mr Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u110	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for the answers she has given to the questions of the Christian Union. I must say that I also welcome the way in which you have addressed these questions in substance. I will therefore advise the group to vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u111	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. Then I will go to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for the answer, which was cheerful and competent, as we are used to, and who also occasionally demonstrated the necessary balance, for example in terms of the cost story. The SGP looks forward to the proposed adaptation of the Supplementary Decree on Land Property with a view to the public-law enforceable financial contribution to spatial development. I believe that I have also made it clear that we are looking for a clear framework for legal certainty for private parties and that we must avoid any negative impact on housing production. I have also made comments on the private-law track. I just want to make sure I understood it correctly myself. I called the public-law cost story "too narrow." Does a meadow with solar panels fall under that? That is my specific question. The last point concerns land-use planning. We didn't come out entirely with the interruptions about the need for improvement. I'm just gonna re-read it without trying to make it too big. Voluntary lot exchange agreements are subject to a separate improvement requirement in Section 12.6 while the general provisions in Section 12.1 already state that land-use improvement is to be carried out in the rural area. Voluntary lot exchange is also part of the chapter on land development. In my opinion it remains double-up and I still don't see the point of a separate need for improvement. I'm afraid it can lead to confusion. If that can be made even clearer, I am happy to hear it, but at least we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u113	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I call Mrs Moonen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u114	Mr. Chairman. In reply to my question on the effects on legal certainty, the Minister stated that the legal framework is the same, that in construction activities the cost story should always fit the environmental permit and that, in a sense, there would be no legal inequality within the same municipality. But the Minister has also indicated that our Chamber and the Government will be critical of the actual practice of legal certainty. We shall continue to do so from the Chamber. With regard to the expertise of municipalities, the Minister has undertaken to prepare municipalities for their tasks of expropriation and the cost story through the inter-administrative programme Getting started with the Environment Act. She has also indicated that there will be a manual cost story and a hand-out expropriation, specifically for the municipalities. That's very wise. We look forward with interest to the study of the mandatory urban reconstruction and the government's response to this. It is good to know that the government, with an open attitude, will face the potential benefits of mandatory urban land consolidation. Finally, Mr President, the Ronnes amendment on improving the quality of the physical environment. The Minister indicated in questions on this subject that he was aiming at the simultaneous entry into force of the Environment Act to the AMvB on the amendments, including that amendment Ronnes. The fraction of D66 attaches great importance to the simultaneous entry into force of the Environmental Act and the AMvB in which these amendments are made. Why do we attach so much to that? We attach great importance to this because, if the Environment Act enters earlier than the AMvB, there is a temporary situation in which the municipality may not have that stick behind the door to enforce public-law contributions. Another disadvantage of a temporary situation, in my opinion, is that it always creates a messy situation. One law, the Environment Act, has entered into force, but the amending law, which contains important things which are aimed at the quality of the environment, has not yet entered into force. We think that is undesirable. Therefore, the question to the Minister whether she can undertake to do the utmost to allow simultaneous entry into force. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u115	Thank you, Mrs Moonen. I call Mr Rietkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for her answers. I have five short points. The first point I would like to mention in connection with the debate on the Ronnes and others amendment. The VNG and the IPO aim to continue the existing practice that has grown under the Regional Planning Act. This is now being regulated organically. Is that image correct? And is the AMvB, which is further developed, also using the knowledge and content of the NEPROM, in addition to those of VNG and IPO, so that these interests are also taken into account? Then there's the point of the National Real Estate Company. It is clear that this has a prominent role in some projects in which the Empire owns land as well as property. The example of Katwijk/Valkenburg has been mentioned and there are other interesting projects. Is it true that I have heard the Minister say that there will be an information letter to the House of Representatives? That is what the First Chamber would be interested in, in order to find out how an additional impetus can be given, particularly in the case of housing projects, to speed up implementation. Then there is the point of the NOVI, which Mr Crone has also mentioned. We do indeed go out eagerly from March; it was first February. We should not end up on some kind of banana peel. Why is that important? The national interests, which are not sufficiently anchored in the NOVI, we need to make choices about them in order to implement them in the end. We have to see to that, too, as the First Chamber. I am committed to speed, because if there is no national interest, the Empire cannot deploy its instruments, and that is a great concern for the CDA Group. Then my second final point. The Minister is going to answer my question about the following. A province can make an incorporation plan for a provincial interest, if a municipality dreads or a municipality fails. The Empire can draw up an integration plan if it is of national importance if it is in the NOVI, such as for housing, and can therefore use instruments that are currently only in a municipality. The Ronnes amendment therefore, I think, goes further than we think. I would like to make that clear. This also calls for more speed on the NOVI letter, because that means that the Empire itself is partly responsible for dragging its feet at the pace of housing. Finally, I would like to mention the independent evaluation committee, which we have asked for. The Minister has promised not only to come to the front of the KB with further information, but rather. After all, we do need to know what this is in response to the Minister's commitment to an independent evaluation committee and to receive digital information for a year. Is it a report or an evaluation? Now I hear again: an evaluation, coupled with five years. We think that this is too late, so I would like to have an explanation of that, possibly in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u117	Thank you, Mr. Rietkerk. Finally, Mr Crone has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u118	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the Minister for the clear answers. She didn't give such a political appreciation of the switch through eight amendments in the House of Representatives, but I'll take that freedom. We have often been warned about the Environment Act: that was the last liberalisation law, that was privatisation and decentralisation. Everything had to go down from the slogan "everything can; yes, if" instead of that government with all those rules: "Nothing can; no, unless." That has been a great warning to me and my group, also in previous debates in the First Chamber: is this not too free and too liberal in this small country? That is why I am very pleased that in the Lower House this law has been returned to steering mechanisms that may be necessary, and directed. That is what I am saying to Mr Van Dijk. 'Cause without directing, you're not gonna get there either. It is also in the interest of investors to have a clear direction. We've seen it by the Sounds Act, and we'll see it here, too. Private freedom also has great limitations, and not only social, because your real estate will also be worth a lot more if you are in a good environment. It's almost crazy that I have to say that again, because it's so obvious. But that is why I am very pleased that the whole Environment Act has become a bit 'normal' again through the Ronnes amendment. I would almost say that we need a Roman-red coalition again, because PvdA and CDA have straightened out some of these things together in the House of Representatives. I'm proud of that. And of course everyone can participate in cream-red, eh; that's always very nice. So my political appreciation is positive about the Noise Act and about this bill. We'll see about the Law of Nature. That's gonna be very complicated, I think. It is also much more sensitive, because there is no natural counterweight there. There is literally no natural counterweight, because nature doesn't talk. Here you see counterweight, and I have the idea that we are now in a good balance, although of course the AMvB still has to be clearly defined whether we are getting a broader or a smaller cost story; that has just been my main point as well. I would like to say to the investors: choose a broad cost story, because the neighbourhoods that are not wide are the poor neighbourhoods and there the real estate is also less worth. We just had a little debate about economics. Ricardo said it: grain is not expensive because land is expensive; land is worth a lot because the grain is high, because that is fertile land. And so it is. If you invest well, your land will be worth more. I see Mr Van Dijk nodding! I won't challenge him anymore, Mr. Chairman, but we're getting close. If we keep it up in this country, we'll be the best country in the world. So I want a broad interpretation of the AMvB. Yeah, that makes sense. Then the provinces. With Mr Rietkerk and Mr Verkerk, we have achieved that an investigation will look again at whether the provinces have enough opportunities to do it in their domain. I follow the Minister's reasoning that the basis runs through municipalities, because it is about them. But I also follow Mr Rietkerk's reasoning that there are many rules already in place, and that the new rules of instruction may also allow a lot to be regulated. So maybe it doesn't have to be in this law, but maybe it can be faster than in a year. Because that's what I'd like to ask. An evaluation after one or two years is quick, but the Minister may also be able to promise that she will be able to reflect more quickly what is already possible, in terms of legislation and in terms of existing rules. 'Cause then they can just get to work. The evaluation then shows whether the current package is large enough or whether some should be added. I hear in circles of provinces that it seems, because the municipalities are getting it now, as if they are not allowed to do so. But perhaps Mr Rietkerk is right, and that is not true at all and can be done for a long time. So it's more of a clarification and clarification of what's already possible. And then, when it comes to the construction of wind farms, I would almost say: and nuclear power plants, too, can keep the right cost story to eliminate the damage caused by nuclear power plants. Well, then it turns out they're too expensive every time, but that's another discussion. I'm not against nuclear power, but it's just too expensive. Mr. Chairman. Then there is my final point. Of course, all this depends on whether the municipalities take the initiative early, and whether they do so in full. That's what the Minister says. If they do not, then legislation is too late or then they are too late. That goes for the Binckhorst and that goes for all those projects. That is why I would also say to the Minister: if you do not decide quickly enough, but only in April, then you should not complain that others have done nothing in March. So I'm not interested in your birthday. I supported what Mr Rietkerk just said. You can't expect the others to be on time when the central control isn't there. So I really wish you a great birthday present at the end of March, at least. And, of course, it doesn't help if you're politically divided. It doesn't get any easier if you wait a long time. The buttons have to be cut anyway. And you brought us with you, so that helps a lot. I would say: a note in March, then we are no longer talking about February. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u119	Thank you, Mr Crone. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? I hear you want five minutes of preparation. Then I'll suspend for a brief moment, until 5:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u120	I give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Living.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also for the second-term questions from Members. Mrs Bezaan asked about the environmental impact of the installation of wind turbines and batteries. This is shown at project level by the initiators. If there is a significant environmental impact, then, of course, an environmental impact assessment must also be carried out. It reflects the environmental impacts of alternatives as well as the environmental impacts of alternatives. For example, a proper balance can be made by the competent authority. I would like to thank Mr Verkerk for his further comments and his support for the legislative proposal. The SGP talked about the private railway and the public-law cost story and whether solar panels are included. Solar panels are only covered by the private law regulation for financial contributions. Then there was the issue of the voluntary lot exchange. We've checked that out. It's not unnecessary, but I'd like to sum it up for the gourmets. Voluntary lot exchange is part of land development, but this applies only to voluntary lot exchange in the rural area and not to voluntary lot exchange in the urban area. For user-friendliness, the improvement requirement is repeated in the article on voluntary lot exchange in rural areas. For example, it is clearly underlined that the improvement requirement does not apply to voluntary urban lot exchange. I would like to thank Mrs Moonen for her point. Are we aiming for a simultaneous entry into force of the Environmental Act and the AMvB? Yeah, that's what we're definitely trying to do. Your Chamber can, of course, always play a role in an early treatment. Perhaps we can count on Mrs Moonen in that regard. It has also made a comment on the environmentally harmful activities as part of the financial contribution. Yes, it is possible to contract in private law, provided that this environmentally damaging activity is accompanied by a change in the use of the environmental plan. So let me get this straight. This is not possible through the Ronnes amendment, because it is limited to construction activities. Then the CDA asked whether the province should be able to make use of the Ronnes amendment in the event that inter-administrative supervision is deployed and whether an integration plan from the Empire is therefore being established. It can't be. The Ronnes amendment was attributed to the environmental plan. We were just discussing how we're going to see what kind of system we have and whether we're seeing any gaps. I find this interesting to take, because I do understand why Mr Rietkerk is asking the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u122	The CDA Group does not mean inter-administrative supervision. Under the Environmental Law, a province can make a provincial incorporation plan and even the Empire can make a national integration plan, because that is actually the same as a municipal zoning plan. My question is on that line. So analogly explained, the question is: is the instrument case not so beautiful that, if the municipality takes its responsibility, it goes on, but that if there is a run-down, then the province in the provincial interest and the Empire in the state interest is therefore that which NOVI is so important even in a housing statement can take over the matter from the college. Does the Ronnes amendment also not apply to the system of the Environment Act for a province and the Empire as it is of provincial importance or. What's the big deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u123	I understand the question and I think it is a logical question, but the amendment is not very well designed. So now you can't. But since we have just said that we will look again on a number of points to see if we can identify cases in which you might want something additional, we will look at this again. Because I can see why Mr. Rietkerk is asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u124	Perhaps this will help the province to replace the municipal environmental plan, the former zoning plan. The Empire can do that, too. Perhaps that suggestion can be taken into account, because I believe that, according to the current system, or according to the system which we hope will enter into force on 1 January. I find it interesting to be clear about that. When are we gonna get that clarity? Because that also helps with other topics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u125	I understand why Mr Rietkerk is asking the question. Because when you make such an integration plan, you actually want to be able to have access to the instruments that the municipalities normally have at their disposal and where this instrument comes in. Then why is it not at the moment when an integration plan is being drawn up from the Empire or the Province? The conclusion is that the Ronnes amendment is currently attributed to the environmental plan. So now it wouldn't be possible. But let us, from Mr Rietkerk's logic, look again at what can be done and what may be the hooks and eyes to make this possible according to the same system. We'll let you know as soon as possible, but I can't put a precise date on that right now. Will the NEPROM also be involved as a matter of priority? Yeah, absolutely. Then the RVB and the question whether the First Chamber is also informed when colleague Knops sends a letter to the Second Chamber. I'll get a transcript to the First Chamber. Then the pace of the NOVI letter, a request from the Labour Party. I see that as a clear call for that letter to be sent as soon as possible. I share that, but I do think it is important that there is not a false expectation of what is in that letter. The letter will not say: there and there and here come these and these houses. Municipalities and provinces are working hard on housing plans. Again, I've been sitting around the table this week with the deputies. We are really trying to increase speed with each other, especially in practice, and we are also trying to ensure that everything is needed in the medium and long term. It is not the case that we depend on when the NOVI letter comes to address housing. On that note, I promise that I will do my best to get that letter to you as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u126	Does that mean that the Minister, with the current instruments in matters of national interest, i.e. housing and housing, is already able to speed up when co-governments are dragging their feet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u127	Yeah, absolutely. I also think that the Valkenburg case shows that. It was asked from the Chamber whether, if it really did not succeed in the discussions, it was fortunate that, for example, a national integration plan procedure could be initiated. You can do that now. If the provinces didn't, so could the Empire. But in the administrative relations between governments, you try to come out together, because that is the fastest. We remain fully committed to that. So we are not dependent on these instruments to be able to use this acceleration. The most important thing now is that for those housing projects that are already so close to being able to get into the ground, we see where we can hang them and how we can achieve them in sufficient size and quality in the medium and long term. But for that we do not have to wait for the NOVI letter. It doesn't depend on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u128	In an earlier debate, the Minister made a commitment, including to the D66 Group, that this letter will indeed be much more directional and much sharper in tone than the present Novi. I'm allowed to assume that's gonna stick?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u129	Sure, but more directional is something else than that we are going to decide from the Empire whether the houses should come left or right of the ditch. We are not going that far, not even in the agreements we have made with the other governments. However, in the general consultation on NOVI in December in the Lower House, there was a broad demand to give the NOVI, which so far mainly outlined the problem, a little more direction. To the extent that you give direction, you can of course determine everything from The Hague, but we are not going to do that; I will tell you immediately. However, we are going to take the lead in these joint tasks. That is different from that we depend on that letter in order to be able to work hard on housing. Again, a few days ago, I was working very hard with all the delegates: how can we use each other's best practices to achieve that acceleration in practice? This must not only be on paper, but it is about how it works in practice. Is that where the parties sit? Can they come to a solution with each other? Again, Valkenburg was a good example of how we could have done that, with all the drivers involved. A question from Mr Rietkerk was also about independent evaluation monitoring. Indeed, we come before the summer with a letter in which we write out for you how we provide it. No one wants to wait five years before we realize there's something going wrong that we have to deal with. So there will also be an annual report. But we will break that down in the letter, so that you all know exactly what to expect. The Labour Party asked if we could clarify once again what can be done now, to ensure that these instruments are properly used. It seems to me very useful to include this in the inter-administrative programme Getting started with the Environment Act, so that everyone knows what is already possible, in addition to the fact that we are going to check whether there are any gaps and whether any additional wishes have emerged. Mr President, I hope that I have answered Members' questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u130	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-8.u131	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill next week. Finally, I propose that we close the sitting now, and I do so.
