ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u1	Let me now turn to the final question. This is from Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS and concerns the priority for tackling the financial abuse of older people. The question is addressed to the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport, whom I would also like to welcome. Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, 15 June, it was the International Day against Elder Abuse, created by the United Nations. The Netherlands has also made a commitment to this. Today there is the news that the economy is shrinking by 6%. A financial crisis is expected, and there is a great deal of concern about older people's abuse, particularly financial abuse. As you were able to read yesterday in Het Financieele Dagblad, there is still much to be improved on both the prevention and repression sides. Mrs van Oosten called for a firm structural approach to financial abuse, in which it would be normal for parties in the care, legal services and banking sector to be actively involved in preventing and tackling abuse. Mr. Chairman. That's why we're asking the Minister. Does the Minister agree with 50PLUS that the sound approach to financial abuse consists of two pillars: prevention and repression? To what extent has the Minister focused on results, practices and best practices of local alliances of Financially Secure Ageing? Are you prepared to step up the prevention of financial abuse in consultation with relevant civil society organisations? How are you gonna do that? How can the Minister further strengthen the existing and often well-functioning system of local alliances, given the great social importance they fulfil and the additional concerns that are now arising as a result of the corona crisis? And finally, to what extent is Safe Home sufficiently equipped to address the complex issue of financial abuse?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for Mrs Van Brenn's questions. It is quite right to bring this issue to the fore. Yesterday it was indeed the International Day against Elder Abuse. Last year, when it was the International Day against Elder Abuse, I started a public campaign with explicit attention to financial abuse in the elderly. That is the most common form of elder abuse. We have agreed to this approach together with the Dutch Association of Banks, with Safe Home and with many other organisations, because we need a lot of organisations to protect our elderly from financial abuse. There are now 50 local alliances active; Mrs Van Brenn already recalled that. They consist of volunteers and professionals from banks, municipalities, Safe Home, notaries and elderly associations. They work together preventively to prevent financial abuse. Prevention is indeed one of the pillars and repression is another. Those alliances are already very good, but I think we can strengthen things there. I do this by designing a specific framework with municipalities for how to deal with elder abuse, so that municipalities know what to do in order to arrive at a final approach. We also want to include local alliances, because they help municipalities and the local field to do the right thing and to learn from what exists. We continue with the information box Secure Financial Ageing. With this we help inform the elderly about what they can arrange. With banks, with notaries, with Safe Home, with elderly unions and mentoring we filled that box. There is an eager deduction from that. We have recently had to create a whole set of thousands of new information boxes. We'd be happy to, because he finds eager deduction and that's a good thing. Each Safe Home Organisation has a attention officer who is legally required to know about financial abuse. This has now been restored in all regions and these are the permanent contacts for the banks in the Safe Home region. Then there's the police. Prevention and information are all very important, but repression is also important. Punishment of perpetrators is also important. That is why the police have prepared a hand-off report on the financial exploitation of older people, which provides backup for police staff. In short, I think we are doing a lot, but there is still a lot of work to be done. It is the most common form of elder abuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u5	I would like to draw your attention once again to the present situation. Because of corona we are more inside and that means that very often on the perpetrators side there is more need, but also that there is a lot of pressure on parties that should actively fight this: where do we put time and energy? Is it true that we now have extra cause for concern? Is the Minister also aware that reports of financial abuse are repeatedly dismissed for lack of capacity in the judiciary? How does this relate to the UN and EU action plans on safe ageing? We must, however, move towards a situation in which everyone, from their own responsibility, is committed to preventing and tackling financial abuse for this vulnerable group of people and is given structural attention to it. Is the Minister prepared to give this structural attention?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u6	I see three questions. The first is: is it true that now that Corona has made us more at home with each other, that makes people more vulnerable? I think that's definitely true. In general, that is certainly true. Where you can see that people are more behind the front door, all the problems that normally occur behind the front door are also more important. Do I have any figures on that? No, but that doesn't necessarily calm us down, because you don't know what you don't know. It is so logical to assume that the concerns do increase. That's one. Run off with another guy's bank card, pay your groceries with a bank card that wasn't yours, change wills, and suddenly write down another outcome; everything happens financially. And yes, the elderly are indeed vulnerable. The second is: do we have reason to believe that these matters are often or often dismissed? I don't have any numbers of that. I did ask if I could get those numbers, including from the judicial information system, but it's not that easy to get those numbers out of there. So I don't have any numerical information on that. Should there be more structural attention to it? Yes, I very much agree with Mrs Van Brenn. I also think it would be good to say that I am talking to the municipalities to strengthen those local alliances. I'm going to talk to the municipalities to strengthen their approach to elder abuse. I'm going to create a framework for municipalities how to do that. As far as I am concerned, this helps and is also the way to provide more structural attention to this at local level. I think I will promise to send you a letter on this, to show you what we are doing to make it more structuralally anchored at local level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u7	I welcome that commitment. I'm also glad to hear there's a hand-off at the police station so there's that knowledge. I would also like to ask whether the Minister would like to take the trouble to have contact with his colleague in the field of Justice and Security, because we are really getting reports that there are repeated dismissals. It should be rewarded if the police detect perpetrators of these crimes, because they also need to be punished. That's what I like to hear. And thank you for promising me that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u8	I'm gonna check to see if those numbers are on the table. In any case, I did not manage to prepare this oral question. But I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u9	Good. Then that's a promise too. Mr Van Gerven wishes to put a question on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u10	It is very harsh that tens of thousands of older people are dealing with financial abuse. In a number of older people, this is because they are abused by care workers. It is, of course, incredibly harsh that we should note that. Now there is a Warning Register for Care & Wellness. The Minister has already said in the past: I am going to pay particular attention to this, because there is still very little participation. How's that going?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u11	That is a very fair question, because a great deal of the financial abuse is indeed committed by people who work in the care sector. I say this very carefully: it is a part, a part. Yeah, it happens that this is done by people in care. If that comes out and it's discovered, those people will be fired. And they're supposed to never work in health care again. That's why the Care & Wellness Warning Register was created. That is an initiative that I believe is being taken by the health care institutions of The Hague. They have started this and over time several other health care institutions have joined. We have talked about this more often during a debate, and I think it is also in the direction of Mrs Agema. I believe that at that time I promised that I would legally anchor that. That's what I'm doing, and that bill's in preparation. It has been delayed somewhat over the past few months, but it is in preparation. It's coming to your room in the second half of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u12	During this corona crisis, we have seen that many older people have become much more skilled digitally, for example through image bubbles and online shopping. That is a good thing. But they are not yet so digitally skilled that they can also resist phishing mails for example. The Fraud Helpdesk has reported a huge increase in the amount of phishing mails. Last year there was a campaign against elder abuse. Would the minister in the campaign pay extra attention to those phishing mails? This is particularly true for older people who are not yet familiar with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u13	That's a very good point. One part of the approach is that we have trained thousands of bank employees. Banks are very active. Last year, I was at SNS Bank. They're very active there. I know that ABN is very active, and the Rabo is also very active. So these banks have their employees trained by the attention officers of Safe Home, to get exactly this type of tips. Then it is said: pay attention to this, because know that older people are in this situation and know that they are falling for it. If, for example, someone else helps themselves with digital banking, there is also the possibility that this will be abused. And how do you prevent that and how do you focus on it? Especially those phishing mails can actually make older people very vulnerable. So we train a lot of bank employees and train a lot of volunteers. So we're working on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u14	A second supplementary question from Mrs Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u15	That's right. Banks and the Tax Office don't normally send emails saying you have to transfer money, so it's a good thing they pay attention to that. The Fraud Helpdesk specifically mentions people pretending to be someone else. I have a new phone, I'm standing somewhere, I have to pay a bill now, and I can't. This is, of course, a channel that does not go through the banks or the Tax Administration, but that also requires extra attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u16	That's right, and that's why it's really important that you not only train the banks, but also train volunteers and train people through care. The information toolbox is about safe financial ageing. It's important, too. That's what this type of information is all about, just to get that conversation going and make sure that it's being held. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u17	First of all, I note that not all older people are vulnerable and fall into that category. It's about 30,000 elderly people a year. 30,000 times people get ripped off. How is it that there are such large differences in the country? The Minister says there'll be a letter. In that letter we would like to see when something specifically happens to resolve the differences in the country, because that cannot be true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u18	That is a very fair question. Mrs Laan is doing this consistently and rightly so. There is a great diversity among the elderly. That's true. That's for sure. But we know that of all the people in the Netherlands who are vulnerable, there are quite a lot of people vulnerable among the elderly target group, if only because they often have to be helped by digital banking. That makes them extra vulnerable. If only because they often have to call on someone in the area for the groceries. Shopping with someone else's pass often goes well a few times and then things go wrong a few times. So, well, that's where things happen that you can't always see from the outside. So it is important that everyone is alert to that. But I would like to address the question as Mrs Laan says, namely: see what we can do about all the differences that exist, because that is what is needed. I am therefore happy to answer Mrs Laan's question in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. Then we'll vote.
