ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u1	As usual, we shall begin oral Question Time on Tuesday. Today we begin with Mrs Lodder's question on behalf of the VVD to the Secretary of State for Finance, whom I would like to welcome. The question is about the tax subsidy for clubs that encourage uniformity. I call Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Everyone is free in the Netherlands. Anyone can be who he or she wants to be. It doesn't matter. You shouldn't have to be ashamed of who you are. No one can teach you with homogeneous therapies to be who you are. Research by De Gelderlander has shown that many of the organisations that offer these therapies have an anbistatus, i.e. a tax preference from the government. The VVD believes that this is really not possible: tax subsidy to teach people who they are! Or a tax subsidy that undermines our free society. Mr. Chairman. Every time my group reads about homogeneous therapies, we get nauseous. Because there are children who are forced to follow these kinds of therapies, there are adults who are forced by their environment to change and there are predators who take advantage of this quack therapy. And that's what we're subsidising from the government. That's gotta stop. I'm sure the cabinet hates this, too. That's why my next questions. Does the Secretary of State recognise that many of these organizations that provide so-called therapies have an anbistatus? Does the Secretary of State agree with the VVD that people who undermine our society should not receive tax subsidies? What will the Secretary of State do to deprive these quacks of their anbistatus?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u3	Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I'm doing it sitting up again, because my back isn't moving up enough. But I'm in training. I think Mrs Lodder just used the word "nauseous." That also shows my feelings about this. This can't be happening. I'm also glad that the AD paid attention to this at Coming Out Day. For me, it is crystal clear: your sexual orientation is not a disease and so healing can never be the issue. Simple! The discussion about this does not start with taxation. Previous motions on exposure to homogeneous therapies have been adopted in this Chamber. I refer to the motion by Mr Bergkamp, Mr Van den Hul and Mr Özütok, which calls on the government to examine in depth and independently the extent to which young people and vulnerable persons are exposed to this type of therapy in the Netherlands. On that basis, Minister De Jonge conducted an investigation. If I understand correctly, the second phase of that investigation will soon be completed and will report back to your Chamber. But there is no doubt about it: the term'sick practices' does not quite cover the load as far as I am concerned. Then the anbis and the tax side, because that's what the questions are about. Anbis must comply with the integrity test and that anbistatus may be withdrawn if, in short, the institution or one or more of the directors, factually leading or facial persons of that institution has been irrevocably convicted by a Dutch court. We discussed this during the debate on the Tax Collection Act. That law was dealt with here a few weeks ago and in that treatment we talked about the question: can you do something about anbis where things aren't going well? If the inspector has reasonable doubts about the integrity of the institution, he may request a recent statement of conduct. If it is not satisfactory, the anbistatus may be withdrawn. That brings me to the homogeneous practices. I do not regard the practices I am now reading in the newspaper as being of general use. I just can't imagine the public benefit of this. I will ask the tax authorities, in response to your question, to extra checks on this. I'm assuming that if the tax authorities come across this at checks, he'll act on this. For each anbi, tax laws and regulations must be complied with and the anbi must act in accordance with public utility. I say in abundance that these controls and the actions of the Tax Administration must, of course, be carried out within the current tax laws and regulations. In short, I would like to ask the Tax Administration to take a closer look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u5	These therapies are disgusting. This goes beyond the bad practices, as I am glad to hear the Secretary of State say. Because this kind of practice undermines society, and that has to stop. I know this Secretary of State as a forceful person. This is how we are going to vote this afternoon on the modification of anbistatus. This means, for example, that we will reduce North Korea's anbi-status. It would be a good follow-up step to also deprive authorities with this type of practice of that anbistatus. I heard the Secretary of State say he'll have an extra check on this. I'm very happy about that. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he is prepared to inform the Chamber of the results of such a first move on from these institutions in the short term. I think that we should also go a step further, but that is actually beyond the scope of this Secretary of State, in order to ban homogeneity. His colleagues do not yet deliver on this point. My colleague here in the Chamber will also take steps in this regard. However, I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to take this first step. Can the Secretary of State state indicate when he intends to inform the Chamber about this for the first time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mr. Chairman. Let me try to do so at least before the end of this year. I need to check with the IRS or I can. I admit to Mrs Lodders that if these investigations give rise to action, we must, of course, consider what the Tax Administration can do about withdrawing anbistatus and whether it would even require legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u7	Thank you, Mrs Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u9	Then I will go to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u10	Mr. Chairman. It's really crazy. I've just been looking at what these clubs are doing about this so-called homogeneous singing. De Door Nederland: "God can change anyone, including your mode." De Vluchtheuvel: "Homosexual desires can be compared to cheating." Can I assume that the government clearly condemns this and that the Secretary of State will not only examine this matter with the Tax Office? But can we also assume that the Tax Administration is actively going to these clubs, starting with these two, De Door and De Vluchtheuvel, and will say: "Boys, it's over, you won't get a cent subsidy anymore"? This can't be happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u11	Mr. Chairman. The Door and De Vluchtheuvel, I didn't know them, but I do know them after this weekend. They're in the tax office's sights now, so they're being made easy to check, because they know these addresses now, and they're going to go there. If I ask them to check there, hopefully they will. The Chamber also emphasizes this. On the first point, I think that Mr Van Dijk and I share our disgust at this. As far as the cabinet's position on the legal side of this is concerned, I have already said that Mr De Jonge is coming to the Chamber with something this autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u12	Last weekend it was Coming Out Day. Everywhere, the rainbow flag hung with municipalities, provinces, institutions and companies, confirming the acceptance that everyone, regardless of sexual orientation and gender identity, may be themselves. This contrasts sharply with the practices of homogeneous therapies. I have tabled a motion with colleagues Vera Bergkamp and Kirsten van den Hul to conduct an investigation. Part one we have inside; we are very pleased with that. But we are still waiting for part two of the report, with possible directions for measures to counter and prevent homogeneous therapies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u13	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u14	That would reach us in June. We still haven't received anything. We really want to hurry this up. Why is it taking so long and when can we expect the report?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u15	If it is okay with the lady, I will ask the ministers responsible, Minister De Jonge and colleagues from J&W and OCW to come forward with that cabinet response soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u16	Mr Nijboer, Mr El Yassini and then Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u17	Mr. Chairman. They are shameful, disgusting practices, those homogeneous actions of various things I would not even call religious institutions. It's hard enough for a lot of people to get out of the closet. The Secretary of State said, "I'm assuming you can't get a tax deduction if you do donations to that kind of practice." I'd like to know more about the Secretary of State. Is he sure, too? Is he just assuming or is he also sure that he can't and won't?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u18	That it won't happen, I'm not sure. That is also apparent from the article. Of course, this kind of practice may happen in a church society that has the anbistatus. I have another idea at a church association. I thought it was about tolerance and so on, but that is a completely different point. But I can't promise that. What I can promise is that I'll have the IRS investigate exactly what's going on there. If there are things there that are not in accordance with the character of an anbi, which is public utility, then we will look at that. We will then consider whether, on the basis of the current legislation, we can withdraw anbistatus and otherwise take other measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u19	Second question, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u20	So the Secretary of State says, "Maybe it will. That's what the newspaper says, so I'm afraid it is. I'm going to enforce it, and if you can't enforce it with the current law, I'll change the law so this can never happen again." Do I understand the Secretary of State? Then he has the PvdA group at his side. Otherwise, we're gonna keep running in "we're gonna send people in and find some morale" when nothing happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u21	I repeat it again in my own words. My own words were that I'm gonna ask the IRS to check this out. If it turns out that there are practices that do not correspond to the status of a public utility institution, then we will see if we can withdraw anbistatus on that basis. If we can't, we'll have to look at the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u22	Indeed, the right word is "disgusting" for such practices. I am also very pleased that the Secretary of State has made a commitment to my colleague, Mrs Lodders of the VVD, to do everything possible to take away their anbistatus, starting with an investigation. However, I do have a question for the Secretary of State. Is he prepared, in the event that the anbistatus of one of these organizations is actually taken away, to inform the Chamber of that taking up anbistatus? Then we know exactly where these medieval practices take place. At least that gives us a little more insight into where it takes place. Will the Secretary of State undertake to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u23	I can be very brief on that, Mr President. The very short answer you love is yes. The answer is: that automatically follows from the fact that I promised the Chamber that I would report on the control.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u24	Mrs Van den Berg and then Mr Stoffer. Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u25	The Secretary of State is going to investigate these kinds of institutions. It is very good that that should be clarified. But I can also imagine that sometimes there are institutions that have this as one of the components. How does the Secretary of State intend to include that in his investigation? This is not only aimed at this, but is part of a wider package of which other parts might deserve the anbistatus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u26	Mrs Van den Berg puts her finger on the sore spot. We'll have to see exactly... that's exactly why I'd like the IRS to look into this. It may well be that these practices are part of a much broader package, let me just say. Nevertheless, from my political point of view, I maintain that this type of practice does not fit with a public utility institution, whether 1% or 10% or 15%. But, of course, here's exactly the point that needs to be figured out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u27	Mr Lodders has just indicated that sexual orientation is not a disease. We fully agree with that, but I find it remarkable that the Secretary of State is now taking action on the basis of a newspaper article. Wouldn't it be wiser to have those investigations coming from VWS that come here as a matter of urgency, so that we have good information, and only then to see if the Tax Administration should take action? That seems more careful to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u28	No, I don't agree with that. I'll explain why. The reaction with which Mr De Jonge and others will come later is a reaction to the research that has been done. This is an indication, although in a newspaper report, that there are practices in institutions that may/are likely to have an anbistatus and that we do not think is appropriate for an anbistatus. I think it fits in with the role of the Tax Administration that it is looking at that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u29	Second question, Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u30	I insist that in my opinion this is a little premature and careless. Anyway, that's my opinion, and the Secretary of State is looking at it differently. But can I assume the following? Of course, we have a package of conditions that you have to meet in order to have that anbistatus. I think I've heard the Secretary of State say it, but I want confirmation that if you meet it, the anbistatus will not be taken for other reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u31	That's right. That is true, but the most important overarching prerequisite for any anbi is, of course, that they are of general benefit. I thought I'd take that as a guide here. But Mr Stoffer is quite right. We have, of course, discussed in an incredibly deep and intense manner all those things that an anbi has to meet. But when an anbi clearly does something that doesn't fit in with "the public benefit purpose" and this is how these practices sound I start to find it a little complicated to attach an anbistatus to it. This has to do with the overarching concept of "general utility institution." That is exactly why I was just being cautious and said, when asked if I would take action immediately: then I have to see if the law gives me that space.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u32	Thank you.
