ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u1	The next item is the continuation of the first term of office of the Chamber of General European Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u2	I give the floor to Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. This debate should have been held this spring, but was postponed because of corona. Today we are still holding these General European Reviews, but not because the corona crisis is over. We're still in the middle of it, and once again we're in the middle of it. That is why I would like to begin by wishing much strength to anyone who has been affected by COOVID-19 in his or her immediate surroundings. This certainly applies to all those in the care sector and in other vital professions, which are once again facing a difficult task after this spring. Our appreciation for their commitment is unabated. Mr. Chairman. Corona is a pandemic and therefore not a problem of the Netherlands alone. In her speech on the State of the Union on 16 September, President Ursula von der Leyen underlined this once again. Among other things, it called for a coordinated approach to the pandemic in Europe. 70 years after an earlier attempt to achieve a European health union by resistance from the pharmaceutical industry failed, Von der Leyen again suggested this. Vaccine nationalism endangers lives; vaccine cooperation saves lives, says Von der Leyen. Earlier, the French President, Macron, spoke of a Europe that protects. The government states that public health policy must remain a national competence. But does the government see opportunities to set up a European Health Union while maintaining that national competence and is it prepared to commit itself to such a union? The corona crisis concerns us all, but exists alongside other urgent issues, such as the climate crisis. The European Green Deal presented by the Vice-President of the European Commission, our own Frans Timmermans, is as necessary as an ambitious plan to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase biodiversity. That can only succeed if the people with a thinner wallet also experience this. It is necessary to leave a viable planet for our children and grandchildren. And it is ambitious because the challenges are great, but so are the opportunities. In a video interview with the Chamber, Timmermans recently made it clear that, when the Member States of the European Union take this moment to move the beacons towards a more sustainable economy, Europe can reap the benefits of being "the first', the "first mover'. New standards and techniques developed here will not only be applied in Europe and create a lot of jobs, but can also be exported to other countries, where they contribute to a cleaner environment. The European Commission has now increased the target of emission reduction to 55% by 2030. We very much welcome that. Upon taking office, the government said in the government agreement that it wanted to take the lead in the European Union in getting the 2030 target at 55%. Congratulations on having succeeded in getting the European Commission to do so, I would almost say to the government. But can it confirm its wholehearted support for the European Union as a whole, but also for the Netherlands as a whole, for the European Commission's increased efforts to reduce emissions by 55% by 2030? And what steps will the government take, if necessary together with a leading group of equal countries, should it prove that no agreement is reached at the European Council before the end of this year? After all, the European Union will have to turn in a strengthened climate ambition to the United Nations this year, in accordance with the Paris Agreement. Climate transition costs money, but doing nothing is much more expensive in the long run. Combating the corona crisis also costs a lot of money. Both in the Member States and at European level, many billions are rightly earmarked for recovery plans to guide the economy as far as possible through this difficult time. In Europe, this is called the Next Generation EU. Both types of investment, in the case of the corona crisis and in the case of the climate crisis, do not have to stand in each other's way. On the contrary. Both objectives are served when the aid to companies related to corona is simultaneously conditional on sustainability. Frans Timmermans argued for this as European Commissioner. Does the government share the view of Timmermans on this point? Moreover, has the current corona crisis not shown, I ask the Minister, that the Growth and Stability Pact should be reviewed and replaced by a different approach, an approach of much more per country different approaches to the desired levels of public debt, budget deficit and investment? Mr. Chairman. In the State of the Union, Von der Leyen rightly also paid attention to the rule of law. She mentioned the lhbti-free zones.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... She called them "unhuman zones." Does the government agree with that typing? What is the government going to do to combat such inhuman zones at European level? Should not the existence or designation of such zones be included in an indicative list of examples of violations potentially affecting the protection of the Union's financial interests, I would ask the government, as has been mentioned in the conditionality regime recently proposed by the European Council? That regime links the receipt of EU funds from the MFF and from the recovery instrument to compliance with the principles of law. The members of the PvdA Group welcome that regime and support the cabinet's efforts to strengthen the compromise proposal. Can the government inform us of the outcome of yesterday's trilogue? As I understand it, it took place between the Presidency, the European Commission and the European Parliament. Combating inhuman zones could, in our group's view, be part of the tightening up, especially since the outgoing Polish Ombudsman, Adam Bodnar, recently in an interview in the NRC said: "The level of hatred, the legal procedures and the resolutions against lhbti'ers is creepyly similar to the tactics against the Jewish minority in the early 1930s." If, for some reason, the treatment of lhbti people in Poland cannot be part of that conditionality regime, what is the government going to do to stop this hate campaign against European fellow citizens? Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, one of the degrading situations within the European Union is the suffering of the people from the refugee camp in Moria and the solo with refugees to be taken in after the fire in that camp. That's what we've been talking about this morning. My colleague Mei Li Vos also mentioned this last week during the APB. The exchange of refugees within the UNHCR programme.... 100 refugees from Moria, but less than 100 of the 500 within the resettlement programme.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Why, I ask the Minister, has the cabinet not been built in the same way as Germany? Angela Merkel's Germany is more generous, and that is to say more humane, dealing with this issue. Mr. Chairman. This European Commission, when it took office, said it wanted to be a geopolitical Commission. The world has changed. The authoritarian leadership of China has become a world power. The also authoritarianly guided Russia plays a dubious role in many areas. I called Crimea, Ukraine, influencing elections in Western democracies, poisoning opposition leader Alexei Navalny and withdrawing from the MH-17 consultations. In addition, the democratic United Kingdom has left the European Union. That might happen through a no-deal. In these circumstances, united action by European countries, with respect for their actual diversity, is highly desirable. Alone in fighting the corona crisis and the climate crisis. In our view, it does not fit in financially with each other in COOVID-19 times. Fortunately, the President of De Nederlandsche Bank Klaas Knot agrees. He was mentioned this morning. Alone in condemning the terrible murders in France on the teacher Samuel Paty, the people in the cathedral in Nice and at the synagogue in Vienna yesterday. Alone in the fight against Islamist terrorism. Unagreed in refusing to recognise the election results in Belarus. Single-minded in wanting to defend our freedom. But how exactly do we do that? Commission President Von der Leyen said that the European Union should continue to nurture NATO's transatlantic alliance. Even if, hopefully, the democratic candidate wins in the US presidential elections today, it is obvious to strengthen the mutual cooperation of European countries in the defence field. Does the government agree? What precise additional measures does the government envisage in the short term? In order to act more effectively in the changed geopolitical situation, decision-making by consensus may be a problem. Unlike the regulatory policy of regulations and directives, foreign policy events require much more speed. Can the government confirm that it is still striving for qualified majority decision-making in the external pillar? Is there any indication that this will be achieved in the foreseeable future? If the latter is not the case, how does the government intend to promote the efficiency of European decision-making in the foreign policy field? This brings me to the institutional architecture of the European Union. Which European Union do we want? The announced conference on the future of Europe has been postponed by the corona crisis, but hopefully it will start again soon. What is the government's commitment to this? The current European Commission is a very ambitious committee due to climate, health, migration and geopolitical crisis. And then I haven't even mentioned the important area of the digital revolution in my story. Our group supports the ambitions of this committee and is proud of what Frans Timmermans contributes to it. These ambitions are not only the result of the personal commitment of members of the committee, but are also the result of the need for strong government action. If this policy crisis shows anything, it is that a strong government is needed to get us through this crisis, both at national and European level. As a supranational European institution, the European Commission will only succeed if it has the cooperation of the Intergovernmental Council of Ministers and the European Council, where the Member States are responsible. If the Commission were too far ahead of the troops, there would be a good chance of failure. That is why Frans Timmermans stressed in his contribution to this Chamber the need to take into account people with a thin wallet in the climate transition. The solution, in our group's view, must therefore be to increase support in individual Member States for specific European Commission plans so that they can be implemented with the support of the Member States in the European Council and the Council of Ministers. It is also necessary to make it clear that it is always a matter of giving and taking in an organisation of 27 countries. Is the government prepared, as my group asks, to engage in a lively, well-informed public debate on the intentions of the European Commission, to promote the commitment of the Netherlands and to promote this discussion with additional financial resources if necessary? Mr Knapen spoke this morning about an existential conversation that is needed. We are happy to support that. As has been said, our group believes that more European cooperation is needed. But that does not necessarily mean transfer of powers to the European Union, even if it is necessary in some areas. I have already mentioned qualified majority voting in the foreign pillar. Europeanisation can take place in two ways: more supranational and more intergovernmental. Intergovernmental cooperation is still of great importance, and this also means an important role for national governments and national parliaments which control governments. It therefore calls for the national parliaments to be involved and for national governments to be set up. Now, a report by the Institute of Clingendael of 2019 on the European Commission states that overregulation of the internal market and integration through failure, among other things, results in national parliaments becoming arenas for politics without policy. The cabinet responded by pointing out the principle of subsidiarity and the yellow-and-orange card procedures. The latter are important, but, I ask the government, are they enough? How can it be promoted that national parliaments are better positioned to fulfil their important role of monitoring European policies? Mr. Chairman. Finally. A stronger Europe is needed, but it must be a Europe where diversity remains, where national governments and parliaments play an important role in harmony with the European institutions and in solidarity with other countries, a Europe that protects, but not pinches, a social and democratic Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Mr Koole. Do not move, there is an interruption by Mr Vendrik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u5	Did I understand correctly to Mr Koole that the Group of the Party of European Socialists believes that the European Commission's plan for Poland and Hungary should now be strengthened in order to attach conditions to the use of European resources, including free press, free elections and respect for the freedom and independence of the judiciary? Is that the position of the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u6	This conditionality, which is conditional on the granting of funds, linked to the human rights situation in Poland and Hungary, is very important. There is now a compromise in the making. I understand that this was discussed yesterday, but we are so anxious to hear from the Minister whether he can say anything more about what has come out of it. But that was a compromise. As far as we are concerned, that compromise may be strengthened. We also encourage the government to strengthen that compromise of conditionality, so that human rights are even better protected in those countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u7	Thank you, Mr Koole. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Huizinga-Heringa on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A landmark in Amersfoort, the beautiful city where I grew up, are the still inhabited wall houses, houses in the city wall that date from the Middle Ages. Those walls gave people safety and protection. For many people, the world was no bigger than their city. That was the scale they lived on. In the last century, one of the predecessors of my party, the GPV, had the slogan: God, the Netherlands and the Dutch. I'm talking about the word "The Netherlands" in that slogan. There was no thought of a greater connection. The Netherlands was quite capable of doing its own thing, of course with NATO and an EEC. Now such a thought is unthinkable. The climate crisis, the associated energy transition, the refugee flows that are coming to our continent, can only be tackled on a larger scale than national ones. We are therefore pleased that the EU is taking the lead in these matters. At the current pandemic, the Member States' first reflex was to withdraw into nation state. Borders were closed and competition was created between the medical devices. The European Commission's action showed that the European Union is the scale on which a pandemic such as this can best be tackled. The Green Lanes, which continued to enable freight transport, and the large-scale action to bring stranded Europeans home are good examples of a European Union that can curb national self-interest. The European Union is the right size to negotiate with the great power China on the purchase of medical devices. We can work together in the search for a new vaccine. There is certainly something to say about the Recovery Plan, the MFF and how solidarity within Europe is being shaped. The basic idea is that we need each other. The words of Angela Merkel also apply to the Netherlands: Germany only has a future in Europe; Germany only works well when it goes well with Europe. As far as we are concerned, we can also read "The Netherlands" here for "Germany." Mr. Chairman. That is why my group considers the conference on the future of Europe to be important. Better involvement of our citizens in the European Union, participation of them and making decision-making more transparent and transparent are matters that should be a priority. This two-year conference would start this autumn after a delay, I believe in September. There is still no clarity about the President. Does the government expect any steps to be taken soon? In its State of the Union, the President of the Commission spoke about the transfer of powers, for example in the area of health care. With this vision of the future, my group is not happy. The corona crisis shows that there are sufficient opportunities for the European Union to take the coordinating role that suits its position. The debate on the future of Europe should, in our view, be primarily about a more transparent and clear decision-making process, how to bring Europe closer to our citizens and how to improve democratic decision-making. The question needs to be answered as to how existing powers can be properly exercised. That's our first concern. For my group, the idea of subsidiarity is still alive when it comes to the division of powers. What is the government's commitment in this area? When it comes to the functioning of the European Union, I would also like to refer to an article by Adriaan Schout, Professor of Public Administration at Radboud University, in the Trouw of 28 October. In this, I paraphrase: pragmatic muddling is the ultimate strength of the EU. He compares that muddering with Dutch poldering. Would the Minister like to reflect on this statement? The Union is under pressure in several ways. The large differences in prosperity between the northern and southern countries are a potential threat to the Union, from within. Solidarity is a key concept, but solidarity comes from two sides. It means that the richer, northern countries must be prepared to share their prosperity, and the less prosperous countries must also be prepared to carry out necessary reforms in order to cope with future blows themselves. In this light, we support the efforts of the Netherlands in the discussions on the recovery fund, in order to allow Southern countries to tackle necessary reforms as necessary. My question is whether there are also legal requirements for this recovery fund. And it is very unfortunate that this commitment through the way of communication has resulted in so much image damage for the Netherlands. In April 2019, a report was published by the Clingendael Institute on the Dutch representation of interests in the EU. The telling title is: Little empathetic, but effective. Would it not be the case that in the longer term the lack of empathy will also damage the effectiveness of Dutch action? I'd like a response from the Minister. Perhaps the European insiders have not harmed our name; the citizens of Europe have. That is not good for Europe's support. How does the government view this? A second, certainly not less important point, which puts pressure on the Union, is the handling of the rule of law in Poland and Hungary, for example. The EU is a community of values based on the values of democracy, independent justice and human rights. Respect for the rule of law is the foundation on which the principle of mutual trust is based, the Ministry quite rightly wrote. It appears that in practice, despite the paper-based possibilities, there are few measures to help these countries. The Article 7 procedures initiated do not impress. The good 2018 initiative, to include a constitutional conditionality in the new MFF, is increasingly weakened in the negotiations to a financial conditionality. Then it's about fraud and injustices. Or is my group too gloomy here? I'd like a response from the government. The unanimity requirement for important decisions allows Poland and Hungary to keep each other out of each other's hands and thus avoid consequences. My group sees this decline in the rule of law, which unfortunately occurs in more countries than has been mentioned, as one of the greatest threats to unity in the EU. How does the Dutch government operate in this dossier and what steps does it see for itself? Mr. Chairman. The European Union is also under external pressure. The transatlantic bond, which long provided a firm place for Europe in the geopolitical environment, has become unpredictable and therefore unreliable. Trump plays a major role in this, but also under Obama America's attention was already shifted from Europe to Asia. Whoever is elected president of America today, or tomorrow, or the day after tomorrow, will not be as it was. On major geopolitical issues, America is no longer taking the lead, as it used to be. We, as Europe, are much more dependent on ourselves. The UK has withdrawn from the Union, our NATO ally Turkey flirts with Russia and there is unrest at the EU's eastern borders. This calls for a united European policy and a Europe that can act as a power block, as a player and not as a playing field, as Ursula von der Leyen rightly pointed out. If the European Union's common defence and security policy is ready, I would ask the Minister. The AIV recently wrote the rather far-reaching opinion "European security: time for new steps." Among other things, it recommends the creation of a European Security Council associated with NATO. Mr Backer referred to that as well. The Juice of the Cabinet of this opinion is reluctant. Would the Minister like to go back to the EU position and indicate what steps can be taken to safeguard Europe's position in the international force field? Mr. Chairman. Turkey's position is very important in all of this. The EU has launched a two-track approach towards Turkey. If the constructive efforts to end illegal activities against Greece and Cyprus continue in Turkey, the President of the European Council, the President of the Commission and the High Representative will draw up a proposal. Can the Minister state what the purpose of this proposal might be? What does it mean that the EU will not hesitate to use all the instruments when Turkey stops its efforts? Mr. Chairman. The most obvious threat to the Union is the euroscepticism among the citizens of Europe itself. The importance of European cooperation to the various countries and their citizens has not been sufficiently demonstrated. It is precisely now that it is becoming increasingly important for the countries of the European Union to hold on to each other and work together that there seems to be doubt among the citizens about the value of the European Union. My group believes that this is a dangerous development. Euroscepticism has led to the Brexit, with which the United Kingdom has actually taken a step back in time. It is well known that Boris Johnson, the current Prime Minister, has contributed to a very negative picture of Europe in England as a journalist stationed with the European Union through fabrications and strong stories. Imaging on this file is extremely important. In recent years, we have heard of growing disinformation that is systematically disseminated from Russia through the social media. What opportunities does the government see for raising the profile of the EU in the Netherlands? I'd like to hear a reaction to that. How does the Netherlands, or the European Union, act against destabilising disinformation that threatens the EU's support for the citizens of our country? I'd like an answer. With the departure of the United Kingdom from Europe, the balance of power within the Union is also changing. It could be a strengthening of the Dutch role. Does the government see that as well and what is the Dutch Government's commitment in this regard? Mr. Chairman. My group welcomes the European Commission's strategic agenda. We believe that the focus is at the heart of what is needed in the EU. We look forward to discussing the Green Deal and other proposals that will reach us. On one subject, I would like to make an advance: the migration pact. I have spoken about solidarity that is needed within the EU. The EU countries have allowed Italy and Greece to struggle with the large numbers of migrants flooding their coasts. There, solidarity within the EU was appropriate. There wasn't one. This migration pact focuses on solidarity within the Member States. But let us also show solidarity with those who leave behind everything they have and know with the thought: it must be better everywhere than here. Europe portrays itself as a community of values. It is indigestible that within the borders of this European community of values there are camps where refugees live in degrading conditions. My group hopes that the migration pact will not lead to a race to the bottom. We expect it to be the cabinet's commitment to help as many people in need as possible in a responsible way. I look forward to your answers. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u9	I have listened with great pleasure to Mrs Huizinga's speech. You can see that political positions are not carved in stone; that is also good. My own group was always critical of the polder. We have become a lot more nuanced about that. The Christian Union was extremely reluctant about Europe. We have debated this on a regular basis in this Chamber in the other room. But I sense a certain benevolence. I'm gonna go check on the image damage. I've been talking about that myself. Would you like to promote it, or would you find it useful, that we communicate better what the European Union's benefits to the Netherlands are? You have already mentioned a number of other things, but I also mean prosperity. That is a point I have addressed to the Minister. Would you find that a thought that you can support, so that we might be able to build on better opinion-forming?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u10	I asked the Minister what kind of way he would like to promote the European Union's support in the Netherlands. If the way you propose could contribute to this, we would certainly be in favour of it. But I'm also waiting for the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u11	Me too, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u12	I agree with Mr Backer's question. I would like to ask Mrs Huizinga the following. She spoke about combating the euroscepticism and said that there should be a debate. She's asking the government to promote that. I myself have also asked for a public debate that will at least increase the knowledge of Europe among the population. That's what it takes to appreciate it. Now, through Mrs Huizinga, the Christian Union is focusing on combating euroscepticism. Does Mrs Huizinga not agree with me that perhaps this should not even be the goal? That may be a result, but the goal must be that the public is well informed. This also includes critical reflections on Europe, such as Mr Backer's story, which is not just net-net; it can also bring more benefits, but also possible criticism of Europe. It's definitely possible. Does Mrs Huizinga not agree with me that a public debate is actually needed first of all to inform the public about both the pros and the cons, if you want to be able to take further steps towards understanding Europe at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u13	That is why I have also made a distinction between these two points in my contribution, and I have spoken about the great importance of bringing Europe closer to its citizens, that citizens know how Europe works, but also that it becomes more transparent, clearer and more intuitive. That's one point. The other side is that I also think that we should do our best to address the scepticism about Europe where it is based on false insights and it is not well informed. But, of course, it is always possible to be negative about Europe. There must be every possibility for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u14	Mr Koole, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u15	I told you, fighting skepticism could be a solution. I would like to argue much more in favour of proper information. Democracy also involves a healthy distrust. It's part of democracy. We must not accept everything the government says. We're also here to control the government. There must always be a healthy form of distrust. But it seems to me that good information should be the first commitment of a public debate on Europe, as I would ask Mrs Huizinga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u16	Sure. I agree with Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u17	I listened with interest to Mr Huizinga's fine speech. I would like to come back to something that Mrs Huizinga mentioned earlier, namely the role that the European Union must play on the world stage and the capacity to act internationally. In this context, Mr Huizinga referred to the report of the International Affairs Advisory Council. Does this mean that the Christian Union Group, together with the government and, as we have heard before, also with the PvdA Group, is in favour of giving up the national veto in the foreign pillar and adopting qualified majority voting?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u18	If that were necessary in order to get a more effective Europe in geopolitics, we would certainly be open to it. But at the moment we have not yet formed an opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u19	In any case, I am pleased to note that the thinking on the part of the Christian Union is still open on this point. Maybe we can keep holding each other there after all. I would like to put another question to Mrs Huizinga. She was just talking about euroscepticism. What does the Christian Union see for itself, if we go along with the PvdA Group's judgment and thought formation? Suppose you decide by qualified majority in all areas of foreign policy, and say that every time there is a group of countries that is the minority and cannot go along with it. What would that mean for the European Union, for foreign policy and for the euroscepticism? 'Cause that's what I'd have to worry about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u20	Finally, Mrs Huizinga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u21	Sure. That would be an important consideration in our decision to support it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u22	Thank you very much, Mrs Huizinga. I would like to give the floor to Mr Vendrik on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u23	Thank you, Mr President. The corona crisis draws deep traces of decay through the world. The latest October reports by the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank add up to the poor figures. For example, the World Bank estimates that next year the number of people suffering from extreme poverty will no longer fall, as has been the case in recent years, but will increase in one blow by probably more than 100 million people. That is also the wretched picture of this crisis when you look around the world. Elsewhere, people don't die of the virus itself, they die of hunger. Mr. Chairman. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance immediately assumes that the Dutch Government is also committed to this and that the Dutch Government, together with Europe or other countries, is doing the best it can to provide support here. Support for need now and support for recovery soon. This is self-evident to my group, and I assume so is the cabinet. We would like to hear from the Minister for Foreign Affairs about what is happening now. Mr. Chairman. Suppose we all manage to obtain and introduce an effective and safe vaccine. Does that mean you have the richest right? Or does the Netherlands, together with other countries in Europe, and with the European Union, take full responsibility for ensuring that the most affected countries, the poorer countries, also have rapid access to vaccines? Mr. Chairman. During this global pandemic, anyone looking for international connection and global cooperation should look with a light. Popular leaders and autocratic leaders contribute loudly to the chaos on the world stage. Hopefully the United States will untie that camp today. In this chaotic world, júíst in this chaotic world, the importance of European cooperation is evident to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. The European project is far from ideal. It deserves some serious criticism. But on balance, it is in the interests of our country, because we simply do not have the specific weight to make a difference. And it is in the interests of a common future for all of us. In that case, the right choices must be made within the European Union. That is what the following points are about. Mr. Chairman. As colleagues have said, Europe is a value community. Respect for the fundamental rights of citizens and the rules of the rule of law and democracy such as an independent judiciary and an independent free press is the imperative for sustainable and effective cooperation within the European Union. And it is the basis of European citizens' confidence in the same European project and its importance for everyday life. In my group's view, it is also ultimately the only basis on which the European Union can survive in the current chaotic, what is called multipolar world as a community of societies and countries that have high human rights and democracy. Only then can Europe claim its place in a world in which those authoritarian and anti-democratic forces want to play an increasingly important role. Mr. Chairman. If then Member States such as Poland and Hungary systematically, continuously and demonstratively undermine these values, then this community cannot sustain itself and must be intervened by the European Union. There are a few possibilities. The current route according to article 7. This procedure against Poland has been under consideration by the Council since 2017. Nor has the Council so far taken any action following the decision of the European Parliament to initiate an Article 7 procedure against Hungary. This lack of power on the part of the European institutions, in particular the Council, in recent years to provide adequate responses to the systematic and continuous undermining of the rule of law in those countries, is worrying and has brought us into today's situation. The ruling of the Amsterdam Court to stop allowing extradition to Poland because the judiciary in Poland is no longer considered independent is indicative of what it means in practice if there is no mutual trust in the rule of law of another Member State. The fact that Commission President Von der Leyen had to come up with a new mechanism on this matter recently is, of course, a licence of inability on the part of the Council. Does the Minister share this analysis? What is to be expected from this Article 7 procedure, where the Council should ultimately take action against Poland and Hungary? Mr. Chairman. The second option is indeed the proposal of EU Commission President Von der Leyen: the rule of law mechanism. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is looking at this initiative with mixed feelings, and I would ask the Minister to give it a brief reflection. If we understand correctly, this mechanism is currently only concerned with fraud, corruption and abuse of EU budget. In the negotiations, the scope of the conditionality mechanism may now be extended. As far as the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is concerned, this must be done. Many tens of billions will soon flow to Hungary and Poland, and at least a strong and effective mechanism must say that we must have an EU in which we also look at the whole rule of law and democracy, including free elections, an independent judiciary and a free press. Mr. Chairman. The Commission had also proposed that the Council should only be able to block a Commission proposal to apply the mechanism by qualified majority. The Council has turned this around following Prime Minister Orbán's demands. Now we need the consent of the qualified majority. The Prime Minister informed us that this part is not negotiable. Why not? Is the Netherlands prepared to commit itself to simple majority approval?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u24	I have a question for Mr Vendrik, because I have noticed today that he consistently asks a particular question. I just had a question. Could it be that the impression has gradually emerged that these countries are under a magnifying glass, because they are based on perhaps different core values or more classical values than those advocated by Mr Vendrik? I am thinking of the traditional family values, the protection of the Jewish-Christian tradition and the pro-life position. Those kinds of values come out very strongly there. This also comes from their own history and from their identity. Could that be the reason why Mr Vendrik keeps asking for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u25	To be honest, I do not care what the background to the actions in Poland and Hungary is. The fact that they are part of the legal community called the European Union entails certain obligations. I have said this and I believe that we share the great importance of this with the government. I hope you share that. They must be maintained at all times. The rule of law is not a cappuccinomenu where you can choose what you like, depending on your own history. You're in or you're out. The example that came along in colleagues' reflections this morning, and also in Mrs von der Leyen's speech, about that lhbti-free zone, makes me horrified to the depths of my being. And I hope that goes for you, too. No recourse to any value can justify such practices.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u26	I'm also terrified of an Ihbti-free zone. That will be clear and that would never be the position my party would choose. That is indeed an extreme example. But these two countries have already been mentioned a number of times. I am concerned that I also see that there are certain values that relate, for example, to the religious belief of a large part of the population. We have in our country a very nice Article 6 of the Constitution for that too. It is also values that we give others, including other Member States, to experience, for example, freedom of religion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u27	What's your question, Mr. Schalk?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to explain my question very carefully. That's why I needed a longer run. But my question is this. If it's just a state of law rejection, then we need to be clear about it. But the feeling in my mind is that there may also be values that fit a particular population because one still has one's own history, and one's own philosophy of life that is very deeply rooted. Is that feeling shared by Mr Vendrik?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u29	Mr. Vendrik, please give me a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u30	Mr President, I cannot say more succinctly than Mr Ernst Hirsch Ballin. He once said that the democratic rule of law is not available in separate parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u31	I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u32	I'm talking about free, independent media, an independent judiciary. These are the essential elements of a democratic rule of law. You can't shop in that; that's part of the package. The European Union is founded on that too, and fortunately. This gives us, as citizens, confidence that we have a power vis-à-vis us that monitors the public interest, that is accountable, that can be called to account and that can be dismissed by free elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u33	Thank you. I'm gonna wrap it up now, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u34	Of course, I can't help but agree with that. But that is without prejudice to the fact that there may be people who maintain the rule of law, but have a different view of certain values in life.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u35	I insist that everyone in Europe is free to choose their own values, but not to shop in the principles of the democratic rule of law. That's what we're talking about here. These principles do not stand in the way of maintaining their own family values as long as they do not affect the fundamental principles of the European Union. And I asked a few questions about that to the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The third and final route of strengthening the fundamental principles of the European democratic rule of law is through Article 259 of the Treaty, whereby Member States themselves take another Member State to justice. Is that actually an option for the government? Is this an option for the government, because it is a serious matter and the process through the European institutions is proving difficult; I have just spoken about this? Mr. Chairman. A second element that is important for the Europe of the near future is the green and just recovery. The new European Commission presented the Green Deal in December 2019, with our strong support. There the course was set for a climate-neutral economy in Europe in the shortest possible time. And biodiversity recovery also has a very high priority within this plan. Indeed, recently, the European Commission's proposal to increase climate ambition by 2030 to 55% was added. I think it was Mr Koole who asked questions about that. They're mine, too. Following this Green Deal, the committee released the idea of a Green & Just Recovery this spring. That too has my group's strong support in terms of thinking. It is good to see that the government now supports banks, citizens and businesses in times of corona emergency and that the economy is doing the best it can with emergency programmes. But then it is very important that these support operations contribute as much as possible to the sustainable economy of tomorrow. That's a little disappointing in practice. Worldwide, the numerator of all budgetary and monetary operations stands at around EUR 20,000 billion. To the extent that that can be verified now, only a fraction of it, including in Europe, will be devoted to a sustainable economy of tomorrow. That is a lot of money for yesterday's economy, which puts Europe at great risk of spending inefficient and short-sighted money. It also gives rise to the wrong expectation that the necessary transition of our economy can wait a little longer. Nothing could be further from the truth. I ask the Cabinet on this point about its assessment. Mr President, this is linked to it. In order to ensure that the European funds of Green & Just Recovery are actually spent on this, discussions are taking place in Brussels on the connection of the terms of that fund to the taxonomy plans already agreed last year. I hope that the Dutch Government too is heading in the right direction, and that taxonomy is the lower limit for what that money can be spent on. We were at the NIS yesterday, and apparently there were some frictions in the eyes of the Netherlands for the claim that the Netherlands could make to this money of 6 billion. I hope that the government, which teaches others about conditionality, will accept the same conditionality in Brussels. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Another concern on the same agenda concerns the lack of a real perspective on the sustainable transition of agriculture. Last week, the European Council and the European Parliament took up positions on the forthcoming negotiations on the European agricultural funds to be reinvested for the next seven years. To make a very long story short: we have known for a long time that agriculture in the Netherlands is unsustainable. Agriculture is mainly based on monoculture, mass production and long-distance transport, contributing to the depletion of the earth, emission of greenhouse gases and intensive loss of biodiversity. Well, there's gotta be a different way. This budget should have been in line with that. This is also the wish of the European Commission when it issued the Farm to Fork strategy this spring, which, in my group's view, was another step forward. But the Commission's proposals for the agricultural budget for the next seven years have already been a rather thin translation of this Farm to Fork strategy. With these positions of the Council of Ministers and the European Parliament, there is really nothing left of this whole transition. Hopefully that is not acceptable to this government: another EUR 350 billion seven years will not be spent on expensive taxpayers' euros for a sustainable transition of agriculture to ensure that the objectives of the Green Deal are respected. I'm asking the Minister for a response here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u36	I broadly agree with Mr Vendrik. I have a question that fits in with my own argument: could it have been otherwise? The fact that we ended up with a budget as it is today could have been otherwise? You have been involved in this discussion for a long time, but could you also comment on the net position? How does GroenLinks look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u37	We have been in good company with D66 for years when it comes to how to look at the value of the European Project. If you really want to calculate, if you really want to book, what some people in this room and some members of the cabinet sometimes like to do, then our plea is: do it really well. Do it a little bit with a sense of the macro-economics. Then we know, as Klaas Knot rightly says year after year, that a country like the Netherlands has profited excessively from the euro. It is not entirely surprising that some countries have the mirror image of this, such as the difference in profits between the Netherlands and the Italians when it comes to joining the euro. Look at the broad perspective, the great importance that Dutch entrepreneurs have in the internal market. Anyway, these are the well-known stories, but then you have a good idea of how you value the Dutch contribution to the European budget. Then you should see how much we get in return. It is actually another miracle that it is accepted in southern Europe. You can say we walk in and get a dime in first grade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u38	Mr. Backer, no?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u39	Mr. Chairman. As far as the budget is concerned, of course, much better attention should have been paid. That starts here in the Netherlands with this coalition. Mrs Schouten had presented her vision in a beautiful circular note two years ago, but it is really waiting for its implementation. It would also have made sense if we had heard very loudly and clearly from the Minister of Agriculture what she wanted in Europe and how that would be in line with her vision. But there is political disagreement in the coalition about that point. That does not make the Dutch position in Brussels strong. I also see the fear of southern European countries which, for part of the well-being of their economies, also depend on a good agricultural sector. There too are politicians who think at the time of corona: I do not want to experience so many transitions anymore. I've already been sufficiently hit by the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u40	Thank you. These were two questions, thank you Mr Backer, and Mr Vendrik continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u41	Then it would help if the Dutch government had responded more empatheticly to the need in the south this spring. I think that's the answer Mr. Backer would like to hear from me, to this. Mr. Chairman. I am asking for an assessment by the cabinet on the outcome of the votes in the EP and how it itself assesses the compromise and the Council. Surely this cannot be seen as the achievement of the greening exercise, the Farm-to-Fork strategy and the Cabinet's own note? Isn't it just time to make a capitalized political move here? In that case, the Commission should, as many have advocated, take the proposal for the agricultural budget back to the drawing board again, because it is impossible for us to pass seven lost years here. The last point concerns migration. Colleagues have already mentioned the situation surrounding the Moria refugee camp and how the Dutch government dealt with it. For the sake of shortness of time, I agree with that. The rule of law of the EU, the importance of human rights as a basis for common cooperation, which are the guiding values, should of course also apply to dealing with refugees and migrants. Pushbacks with Greek vessels of refugees in the Mediterranean, supported by Frontex, is the last low in the practical handling of this. Not only should Greece be consulted on these practices for its failing policies and the poor reception of refugees from the Aegean islands, but Frontex itself should also be accountable. In response to questions in the European Parliament, the European Commission states that it is not responsible for these actions at Frontex. Then the question to this minister is: who is in charge? If it is indeed the Member States, I cannot think of any other explanation, what is the Minister's explanation of these Frontex actions for these pushbacks? With the new migration pact, the European Commission has tried to reconcile different positions in the EU in a sort of balancing action. The price is not tender. The right of asylum is being undermined, and governments in Budapest and Warsaw, which have so far refused to participate in the reception of refugees, no longer need to receive refugees at all, and the return of people is now the highest goal. What is the current appreciation of the cabinet of the migration pact proposals? A more sustainable policy in relation to the reduction of forced migration and flight requires a much stronger commitment from Europe in Africa and the Middle East, where most migrants and most refugees come from. That is also in their interest. They prefer to stay there in a prosperous country instead of fleeing. It is also in the Union's interest. That is why I opened my contribution this afternoon with reference to the latest figures from the World Bank. If the impact of corona is not on the common radar of Western countries, we still haven't learned the lesson. Today we can decide to deal with suffering and misery in the world in a different way, also in the interests of avoiding forced migration. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u42	I have one question. I am impressed by Mr Vendrik's speech, which I share in general terms and in some details. I have a question on the last point, the migration pact. That has indeed been negotiated, it has passed through all the capitals and ultimately this is the result. That's not the result you hoped for. My question to Mr Vendrik: would he prefer not to have this result and then retain the old situation or should he, given the fact that you have to give and take with 27 countries, opt for this situation that is not ideal, but is better than it was?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u43	I do not rule out the fact that, at the end of the journey, we are going to have the European debate on the Commission's proposal on migration, which is why I am asking for the position of the Dutch Government to be seen on the table of a compromise that does not make much better, but that perhaps, on balance, is progress in relation to the chaos of the present moment, which is Mr Koole's question about not delivering all the European countries on the basis of existing agreements. That may well be true, but until then we have to have the debate together, with respect for the very same human rights, which are the basis for our European cooperation. As far as I am concerned, Mr President, and as far as I am concerned, I do not think you can negotiate this. That must be the starting point. My group's plea, of course, is, as you recognise, that good migration policy is primarily socio-economic policy, climate policy, corona policy, poverty policy, trade policy. That's where you have to win. If you let all that go and eventually only stop refugees, everyone's a loser.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik. I call Mr Gerbrandy on behalf of the OSF Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u45	Mr. Chairman. The State of Europe 2020. Jean Monnet was the spiritual father of European cooperation. After two world wars, which originated in Europe, things had to change. There had to be more cooperation. His idea was: conflicts born of nationalism can only be resolved in the long run by rising above that nationalism. Limiting power by law. Connecting people. Solidarity in reality. Colleagues, Minister, I very much support that basic idea behind our Europe. Preparing me for this speech, I have looked again and again. It has been said several times today what the goals and, above all, the values of Europe are. A democratic rule of law, peace, security, freedom. And the values of inclusion, solidarity, justice, tolerance. After those two world wars. Of course, we also need economic cooperation. The world needs more clarity today. We know the great trade pacts, the great trading nations, the United States and China. But Europe too is important and will have to speak with one voice. Being less dependent on those great nations is important. When we look at the digitalisation story or at energy, we depend on other countries, for example Russia. Migration is often mentioned. Defence, NATO: the United States is retreating. And when we look at corona, drugs and vaccines. In other words, more independence is needed. A more sovereign Europe. Mr Knapen has put forward this sovereignty and what you can understand by it. A reliable democratic trading bloc such as Europe is needed. The European relationship with Africa is very important. Africa now has 1 billion people, with a growth of 2% to 3%. In ten years' time there will be 1 billion people and you will see the problems of climate and migration coming. We're gonna have to deal with that. The EU's work programme is clear: climate neutral. I fully support that. I just told you what the trouble might be if you don't do something about it. A digital Europe, we can't live without it. The 17 Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations: that is the norm of Europe. We can see that a great deal of these seventeen goals have already been achieved. That may not be said every day, but there is half less child mortality. Europe's reflection on these goals is therefore a good thing. You have to have a strong union to work on that. 2.3 billion people have access to clean water. Poverty had fallen by half, but Corona has made another huge hole in it. The Green Deal is necessary. It is good that Europe is working on this scale. In 2050 energy neutral: we have no choice. We see now Mr Vendrik also mentioned the fact that, in the case of the corona crisis, 10 000 or 20 000 billion are being given aid. We all hope that Corona will pass. But the climate doesn't pass. In the coming period, Europe's budget will contain 1 trillion, i.e. 1,000 billion for climate action. That is a lot of money, but if you compare it with the support package of corona... necessary, necessary! I would like to say that the climate does not go by itself and that we have to do a lot about it. Europe has a scale that matters. I call on the Cabinet to support that. Moreover, investments in sustainable projects are very profitable. If you don't do it from your point of view, you could also look at it economically. I mention one thing, also mentioned in the General Reviews. That's the project in Groningen to help solve the energy transition with hydrogen. The 600 million that comes from Europe is a good thing. One criticism: The Netherlands is called a notorious ghost rider, I read, when it comes to the support of the fossil industry: 8 billion. Maybe your reaction. Agriculture. The EU wants to green the agricultural sector with "farm-to-table." The agricultural budget is the largest in the European budget of 400 billion, of which 4% for the Netherlands. I would like us to spend 30% of this on green agriculture. Did we learn from 2014 when Europe also said that we should green? At that time, nothing really came of it. I'd like to hear the Minister on that. The finances. The contribution to the European Community in the budget has been a major consternation. There really was a situation this summer that you should be ashamed of. We have taken a bad turn, as one of the founding fathers of the European Union, not to generously give our contribution to this good institution. We, as founding fathers of the European idea, should have had a different attitude. We're net payers, that's right. There are more Western European countries that are net payers. As a percentage of gross national income, the Netherlands makes the least contribution. So are the British, but they're out now. The Netherlands makes the least contribution. Mr Backer has just said: if you compare the figures, you will see that we benefit at least ten times from the fact that we work together in the European Union. I also agree with Mr Vendrik that the figures are not the only ones. You also have to assume the thought. That is why I am calling for cooperation in the EU. Keep your own identity and your own sovereignty. In Friesland we say: Fryslân and the wrâld. I say here: the Netherlands and Europe and the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u46	Thank you, Mr. Gerbrandy. I would like to give the floor to Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u47	Mr. Chairman. Never washed a good crisis, as was thought in Brussels this summer. The corona crisis has been used by the EU to fulfill a long-awaited dream. What did not succeed during the Greek euro crisis has now been achieved, namely the effectuation and completion of a European debt union and a transfer union from north to south. Under the pretext of a Corona Restoration Fund, this summer, this long-awaited debt union and transfer union were rigged to implement the megalomaniac EU plans. Corona recovery has nothing to do with that. Most of the money from this so-called recovery fund goes to the Green Deal of Frans Timmermans. Investing in windmills to fight the corona virus; you're not making it up. To quote the motto of former President of the European Commission Jean-Claude Juncker, I understand a good knowledge of Mr Van Ballekom: 'When is becomes serious, you have to lie'. As the old Dutch saying says: only children and drunk people speak the truth. Mr. Chairman. Mr Juncker has already given us a clear view of the European decision-making process with all his outbursts. This was also applied around this recovery fund this summer. I quote Juncker on how the EU works: "We decide on something, leave it lying around, and wait and see what happens. If no one kicks up a fuss, because most people don't understand what has been decided, we continue step by step until there is no turning back." I assume you all speak English and understand what is said here. Mr. Chairman. In the summer of 2020, we saw that Juncker's cynical observations turned out to be 100% accurate. That is exactly what happened with this so-called recovery fund. Solutions are deliberately made very complicated, with non-working emergency brakes that are made up on the spot as wipes for national bleeding. I note that it is in any case progress that the VVD spokesperson also recognizes that Rutte's emergency brake cannot stop the continuing European TV. That is a conclusion that we drew on the first day that the proposal was made public. At least 30% of the so-called corona repair fund goes to the Green Deal of Commissioner Timmermans. I refer to Article A21 of the package as published by the European Council in July. "Climate action will be mainstreamed in policies and programmes funded under the MFF and NGEU. An overall climate target of 30% will apply to the total amount of expenditure from the MFF and NGEU and be reflected in appropriate targets in legislation. They shall comply with the objective of EU climate neutrality by 2050 and contribute to achieving the Union's new 2030 climate targets." Now, there's not a word of French in there. That is quite clear: 30% of this package must therefore go towards climate objectives. So in so far as it has nothing to do with corona. Then we'll get to another point. And passerby is also a common debt union rigged, under the guise of corona recovery. A premiere, the French President Macron called it in July in a triumphant tweet from the Élysée, to the great joy of the French. Finally, the French have their debt union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u48	I would like to ask Mr Otten a question. So far, about half of all European public aid has been given in the corona crisis in Germany. The German government has the means to support so much industry and industrial activity that half of what is provided for aid throughout Europe is supplied to German companies. Of course, that creates a huge gap, because the Italians can't. So if it is said that funds from European funds are being used to invest in climate, innovation or whatever, then that has to do with corona, because the Italians cannot release such a sum themselves. If they can't, you'll get a great discrepancy between southern Europe and, in this case, Germany, but also the Netherlands. How would you address that problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u49	By not investing that money in windmills at least, because I do not think that if Italy is full of windmills, the Italian economy will recover from the corona crisis. I'd do it another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u50	Fine. In what?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u51	Well, if you want to know the real answer, I think a country like Italy is better off outside the euro area, because they have a trade surplus. They can do that in themselves. I know you are not in favour of this, but that would be a structural solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u52	Let's finish this thought exercise. Let's say Italy's leaving the eurozone. Then, of course, the structure collapses. That is not for us, but also for the Danes and for any country, not for free, because if the structure collapses, we too will suffer enormous damage. We have a huge exposure to the euro. And then there's something else. Let's say Italy's leaving the eurozone. Who do you think walks into Italy the next day? Let me tell you who they are: these are the Russians and the Chinese.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u53	I agree. I do recognize that risk. But the Italian public debt is now 150% of GDP. GDP is falling, so debt is only getting higher, so it's moving towards 180%. That's going to take Greek proportions soon. Frankly, I do not see how a solution can contribute to this. This is a problem that we are now extending. That is the old EU solution: we are pushing it forward. "Kicking the can down the road," I used to call it in another speech: kick the can out for you. In fact, that is the solution you are proposing. Mr President, I shall continue my speech. I stayed at the debt union. The coalition agreement Trust in the future is crystal clear. In section 4.4 "I can now dream" it says literally: "The joint financing of debts of EU Member States is undesirable. The EU should not become a debt community. Leading the cabinet is therefore that no further steps are taken towards a transfer union, not even by introducing (forms of) Eurobonds." That seems crystal clear to me. Now, in July, when this recovery fund was announced, President Macron said that it was a premiere that common European debts were incurred. A premiere called it Macron. The Prime Minister spoke last week about a premiere as a female prime minister, but we see that differently. The French have clearly stated what it is: a debt union. We, as European Member States, all guarantee this common debt, the Netherlands, with its triple A rating, of course, is relatively strong. That is clearly contrary to the coalition agreement. That is why my question to the Minister is: who is right now? Macron says that there are common debts. I'm the same opinion myself, if you look at everything. All financial analysts in the world say it is. The financial markets also assume that this is the case. Only Prime Minister Rutte says it isn't. My question to the Minister is: what is the situation? Mr. Chairman. This is a chambre de réflexion. I therefore ask the Minister how he looks back on the somewhat ill-thought-out and failed approach with the frugal four.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u54	I should have waited a little longer, because this is getting interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u55	It's getting more interesting, Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u56	I just wanted to ask you a few questions about that recovery fund before we get past that point. You are extremely critical of this. You're from the business community. You also know a little about how the financial world works. I ran into an interesting article by the researchers from the Rabobank's strategic department. They asked the question that I have never asked myself, but which I am now asking you, because he is relevant: what would have happened to the Dutch economy if the recovery fund were not there? You put the emphasis on what it costs. The Prime Minister has already explained to the General Reviews that this is not so bad, because it is about guarantees. It is borrowed against the EU budget. But what could be the situation if the recovery fund were not in the midst of an economic crisis, a pandemic? You know how the financial markets work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u57	I don't think it would have made much difference. Probably would have saved us money. We are already, as the Prime Minister always says, the netost payer. The recovery fund has made us even more the netost payer. In that sense, I don't believe that. There is also the story that is sometimes told. It was only last week; I believe with one of the FvD people that we would not have survived the crisis of 2008 if we hadn't had the euro. That's a statement I don't support. Look at countries like Switzerland, Iceland, you name it. There were also very large financial sectors. They survived fine. Then maybe you'll get a devaluation. In fact, it probably helped them. No, I do not think there would be a significant difference between the situation where there would be a recovery fund compared to the situation where there was. The only difference is that we are now getting more windmills, Mr. Backer, funded by the EU and by ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u58	I'm trying hard to follow that line of thinking. I'm not talking net-net. I'm talking about the real economy, which you're familiar with. That's why it's interesting what that study says. About 1,000 billion of pension funds have been invested in the economy. Of this, 632 billion has been invested in the euro area. 300 billion has been invested in the Dutch economy and over 700 billion outside Europe. That's almost 1,000 billion pension fund investments in Europe. If there is an economic crisis, it will of course have an impact on prices and on the value of pensions. I think the house would be too small for Mr Van Rooijen if he were there. These are real effects on the economy of not having a recovery fund. If I could just look through this study...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u59	What's your question, Mr. Backer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u60	There's $1,000 billion in pension money invested. You can't insist that, if there weren't prostration in the euro area, that wouldn't have done anything about that value? That would have had many times more influence than that ludicrous guarantee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u61	I do not agree with Mr Backer at all. I don't know what exactly you're talking about with the 1,000 billion. We have about 1,500 billion pension funds in the Netherlands. Do you know how many of these are invested outside the Netherlands? I'll give you the answer right away. I believe that's 96%. So we are all sitting here saving extremely hard for our pension and 96% of every euro we pay goes abroad. It would be much more interesting to invest these Dutch pension funds more in the Netherlands, for example in housing, so that we can solve the housing shortage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u62	Finally, Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u63	This discussion is very old. An amount of 1,200 billion cannot be invested in the Netherlands at all. Over 300 billion has been invested in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u64	You were just talking about 1,000 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u65	That's not what my question was about. My question was whether Mr Otten, with his experience in the financial world, could imagine that a non-manageable economic situation, which has now been fought with a recovery fund, could have an effect on Dutch pension assets and on the value of Dutch shares and the Dutch economy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u66	Mr. Otten, I'd like a brief answer and you'll continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u67	I think this is a very interesting discussion, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u68	Yeah, but I'm asking for a short answer, because we have to keep going. So please give me a brief answer, and then continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u69	We can work this out. Look, it's a redistribution of money within the EU, of which the Netherlands doesn't get much better on balance. But I will come back to this in a moment, because the Netherlands probably misses the deadline to receive the money for those entrepreneurs. I have a question for the Minister, too, so if you wait a moment, I will come back to your point in a moment. Because since we haven't requested it, you can already see that it doesn't make any difference at all. That is already apparent from my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u70	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u71	Mr President, I will listen with attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u72	Go ahead, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u73	I'm gonna get on with the frugals. There was of course the strategy of the frugal four; we went along with the dirty four, disrespectfully said. Later I think it got a better name. As far as we are concerned, it was to be expected that this would not work and that the other three frugals would sooner or later be soaked away from the Netherlands. So that is exactly what happened, and we think that was foreseeable. It was actually some kind of defeat strategy. My question to the Minister is: couldn't this have been otherwise? And would that have led to a better result for the Netherlands in these negotiations? Mr. Chairman. I come to Mr Backer's point. He's served at his beck and call. He's almost psychic, I can say. It is the point of reform. This is something that the Rutte cabinet is always so keen on when it comes to southern European countries. I sometimes find it difficult to suppress the laughter when I hear Prime Minister Rutte once again lecture the Italians and the French that they really need to reform so far. The last warning from The Hague: you must reform. It's just that so far, bar hasn't been much use. Then I come to the core of what goes wrong in our view, in the Dutch approach towards the EU. We actually saw this in the euro crisis. Unfortunately, the Netherlands is one of the few EU Member States that think you can solve everything with mutually agreed written rules and that other Member States are just as naive as the Netherlands and also want to play the best boy in the classroom, and are also impressed by such written agreements. Unfortunately, it doesn't work that way in practice. Most EU Member States, and especially those in southern Europe, see the EU more as a kind of grabbleton where you have to get more out of it than you put in it. This has also been achieved for many southern countries with this recovery fund, I say in the direction of Mr Backer in particular. It is time for the Netherlands to take such a more assertive course towards the European Union rather than the somewhat naive approach to obsessions with rules that nobody respects and non-existent emergency brakes. That means hard negotiating for Dutch interests and using the Dutch veto if necessary. The last thing the EU wants is for the Netherlands to leave the EU. This is certainly true now, because of our triple A rating which is urgently needed to finance the common debt. Take that space, then, is our appeal to the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet constantly insists on reforms and the Netherlands likes to lecture other Member States, as I said. But what about the reforms in our own country? We were able to read yesterday, among other things in the NOS.I have just addressed it to Mr Van Ballekom of the VVD, who apparently was not yet aware of this................................................................................................................................................... EUR 6 billion is now available for Dutch companies next year. But then there will have to be reforms before April 2021, so that is already in the short term, after the elections, including reforms in the area of, I quote the EU, mortgage interest relief, corporate tax rules and better protection for the self-employed. The deadline to apply is 30 April 2021. As a result, various sectors are now in danger of overlooking subsidies, while industry partners in other countries are getting money. The car industry has already made the call, and the shipbuilders are also angry. In Italy, the maritime industry is now allowed to build up to 6 billion euros of modern ships, while the Dutch builders will have to do so without any allowance for the time being. Employers' organisation VNO-NCW is also concerned. The money must be spent before 2024. If we do not apply in time, there will be a second round, but it will only come in 2022. The Dutch companies are therefore a year behind the facts, says VNO-NCW. Our question to the Minister is: what is the Minister going to do to ensure that we do not miss out on these billions? We are not in favour of the EU Restoration Fund and think it is an unholy deal for the Netherlands, but since the coalition has left us with it, it is, of course, important that we bring those billions in as soon as possible. We would like to hear from the Minister how the cabinet is going to achieve this. We look forward to the Minister's response and are happy to discuss it with him in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u74	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I would like to give the floor to Mr Schalk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yesterday it was exactly 16 years ago: the murder of Theo van Gogh, on 2 November 2004 in Amsterdam. In the same year: Madrid, bombs on trains with 191 dead and 1,800 injured. In 2005: London with 56 dead and 700 wounded. Brussels, 24 May 2014: a man opens fire with a kalashnikov in the Jewish Museum. Four dead. Paris, January 7, 2015: the attack on Charlie Hebdo. Nice, February 3, 2015: a man with a kitchen knife stabs two soldiers on guard at a Jewish center. Paris, 2015: Bataclan, more than 130 dead and 350 injured. Marseille, 2016: A boy injures a teacher of a Jewish school who is on his way to work. Brussels, 22 March 2016: bombs at the airport and in a station with at least 30 dead and more than 130 injured. Again Nice, 14 July 2016: a fireworks show, a boulevard and a truck, 84 dead and more than 200 injured. Amsterdam, 31 August 2018: Central Station, two dead. Utrecht, 18 March 2019: shots fired on a tram, four dead, six wounded. The last few weeks in France, the murder of Samuel Paty, followed by the horrible killing in Nice. Two women and one sexter, butchered. Yesterday, exactly 16 years after the murder of Theo van Gogh, an Islamic terrorist in Vienna. At least three dead. Four, I've read by now. Why this macabre, but very incomplete list? Because ordinary men and women, fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters, sons and daughters were the victims. Because we can't forget it and we can't dismiss it as incidents. This is nothing less than the essence of our society, of peace, of justice and of responsible freedom. That is why my question to the Minister is: how do we keep Europe and the Netherlands free from and safe from Islamic terrorism? What else is needed for this? Do secret services have enough possibilities and powers? Are radical calls on the Internet monitored and removed? I would very much like a response from the Minister to this. Mr. Chairman. What also struck me in the survey of terrorist attacks is the large number of anti-Semitic incidents. Which brings me to the following questions. How does the Minister implement the adopted motion on the use of the IHRA definition of anti-Semitism together with the Minister of J&V? It took three years and there were seven incidents at the kosher restaurant HaCarmel in Amsterdam. I also mentioned it last week before the Public Prosecutor finally admitted that this is a radicalisation process and an extremist ideology. Does the Minister understand our appeal that the police and the Public Prosecutor should treat the charges more seriously? Moreover, in the light of the current United Nations General Assembly, I am putting my finger on the traditional flow of anti-Israeli resolutions. As a result of the Van der Staaij motion adopted, these resolutions can no longer count on Dutch support. We see that the Netherlands does indeed vote against more often, but also occasionally abstains from voting. Can we assume that instead of abstaining from voting, there will be more and more votes against? Specifically, I am concerned that the wordings in resolutions put in by Palestinians and other countries ignore the historical relationship of places called "holy places" they are called "in Israel" and specifically Jerusalem with Judaism. For example, the Jewish name for Temple Mountain is sometimes omitted and only al-Haram al-Sharif is mentioned. This is also contrary to the EU's view that Jerusalem is a holy city for three major monotheistic religions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u76	I am pleased that the SGP colleague is making a plea against anti-Semitism and defending the State of Israel, but I do not understand why the SGP voted against our motion to stop funding the UN.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u77	That happened this afternoon. I voted wholeheartedly against, because Mrs Faber's appeal to me is of course out of hand, so I cannot quote her quite exactly about abolishing a large part of the payment or funding to the United Nations. But that doesn't solve this problem. That's gonna get you into a lot of other problems. You do not hear the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats say that all the activities carried out by the United Nations are either reprehensible or not good. It's not about that. This was in my speech about the resolutions which do not reflect the fact that three monotheistic religions all speak of the Temple Mount.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u78	The honourable Member has come up with a comprehensive answer, but the fact remains that we are throwing a very large part, almost 500 million, into the UN greenhouse on a voluntary basis. The UN also knows that Mr Schalk - are quite anti-Israeli and anti-Semitic. Again, I cannot understand why you would vote against such a motion. If you had given an explanation of vote with some explanation, you would not have bothered to do so either. I'm not saying it's true, just to be clear, but then it looks like a little crocodile tears of yours. That's what I said in my speech today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u79	Finally, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u80	If Mrs Faber thinks that I have sprinkled this list of horrific crocodile tear attacks, then I think she has not listened and that she has not heard what tone I have tried to give. I have made it very clear here that I find this horrible. The funds for those UN resolutions... I think you yourself argued that last week during the General Reviews, which we all listened to. In your speech, this was mainly aimed at one group. That was Islam. You hear me strongly rejecting Islamic terrorism, but the money you talked about is also important for development cooperation. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dat zou je dan dus ook gewoon los- en wegtrekken.]] My group does not approve of that. I did not give an explanation of vote on this this afternoon, but this question from Mrs Faber helps me greatly to do so in this way. So no crocodile tears, that's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u81	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u82	I'm just out of my story right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u83	That's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u84	I remember. I certainly appreciate you coming up with such a list of what, in fact, are horrible crimes against humanity. The causes of this are from the Islamic corner. It is true that I spoke last week about the UN, which is rolling out an agenda of terrorism and anti-Semitism. I said at that time, now I come to a slightly dangerous point, I quote: overcrowding. That was all about the Islamic angle. You yourself now come up with a list of Islamic attacks that have been there, but on the other hand you say: yes, but you were only talking about Islam at that time. In fact, we did find each other, but you put it differently than I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u85	Thank you. Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u86	I don't think I'd want to put it the same way. In particular, the word you just took in your mouth, which the President warned against last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u87	Mr Schalk speaks loudly about Islamic terrorism, and I understand that very well. Can I assume that everything he has said applies equally to terrorism which is based on right-wing extremist ideas, such as the attacks in Norway, New Zealand and other attacks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u88	Indeed, I have now opted for a number of attacks in Europe. As far as the right-wing extremist attacks are concerned, attacks can be rejected anyway. So if that's what you're talking about... once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u89	I had the same question as Mr Vendrik. Mr Schalk explicitly placed it in the context of anti-Semitism. He is talking about attacks in Europe, which my group also condemns all of them, especially if they come from radicalised Islam. Unfortunately, we also saw examples of this yesterday. We certainly need to do something about this in a European context too. We must also appeal to Turkey to influence in this area. But in Germany, for example, attacks were also carried out in February of this year. That's where nine young people were killed. Those attacks, in Hanau, were anti-Semitic inspired. The German Minister of Justice said...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u90	What is your question, Mr. Van Apeldoorn?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u91	One more sentence. The German Justice Minister has said that extreme right-wing terror is now the greatest threat to democracy in Germany. So my question is why Mr Schalk exclusively focuses on Islamic terrorism in his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u92	I said in my speech that it was a macabre but very incomplete list. There have indeed been many more attacks. As I have just said to Mr Vendrik, right-wing extremist attacks are also reprehensible. But indeed, in the list I mentioned, there were some very strongly directed by anti-Semitic violence. But not only; I also wanted to name Islamic terrorism in general. And yes, we should of course have started with September 11, 2001.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u93	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u94	I already said something about the Temple Mount. I urge the Minister to make a clear counter-vote in all UN resolutions referring to the Temple Mount, with only the Arab name of Haram al-Sharif. I'm considering a motion on this point. Because words make a difference! Mr. Chairman. It is only a small step towards my next focus: the rule of law in the European Union. A complicated and loaded discussion; we have just discussed it. In material terms, of course, there are certain things that cannot be negotiated. He just mentioned them in an interrupting debate with Mr. Vendrik, but I also noted them here. Are criminals punished and victims protected by law? Is there a separation of powers and independent justice? Is there freedom of the press, freedom of conscience and freedom of expression? These are fundamental constitutional values. The key question, however, is how we in the European Union deal with the different ways in which this takes shape from the past and from our own culture. Our view of the rule of law is, of course, influenced by whether we come from Western Europe or from the former Eastern bloc, whether we call ourselves religious, agnostic or atheist, whether we are conservative or progressive. Let me give you a simple example. The European Commissioner for Human Rights condemned Poland for possibly banning abortions on children with down syndrome. Mind you, Commissioner for Human Rights. Of course, such a thing is fundamentally related to your vision of human life. Let us be careful when criticizing countries such as Poland, Hungary or the Czech Republic. The dialogue is preferable to tough Article 7 procedures. For this reason, the SGP recommends first examining the common notions on the rule of law emerging from the country-specific discussions. My question is whether the Minister shares this view. Mr President, then there is the European Green Deal. You know that the SGP is critical of the overly ambitious European climate plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u95	I see several interruptions, but given the time, I'm gonna let Mr. Schalk finish his story. Then let's see what time it is and how that relates to the break later. Follow up on your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u96	I was just discussing such an important subject, Mr President. It was about the Green Deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u97	That is why I said: continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u98	Sure. Well, the European Commission is overzealous when it comes to climate and agriculture. During the General Political Reviews I already mentioned that we have a Climate Law in the Netherlands, which mentions the unfeasible percentage of 49% reduction CO. This is how we create our own Urgendas. But with the Green Deal, Europe is doing a little bit more: 55%. What is the government doing to make it clear to Europe that the Netherlands should not be prescribed in this area? As an incentive for industry, my group can understand that a higher CO price is set in the European emissions trading system. To make industry more sustainable, we simply need Europe. But let us please ensure that Europe does not interfere with our houses, our buildings and so on, either directly or indirectly. We do not need European cooperation for this. When and how will the cabinet be more critical? As far as the farmer-to-board strategy is concerned, Brussels is also rolling a snowball with more and more dictatorships. A list: more animal welfare rules, a legislative proposal for a framework for a sustainable food system, at least 25% organic farming, 50% less nutrient losses, 20% less manure use, while the current standards are no higher than what crops need, 50% less chemical plant protection products, 50% less antibiotics, combined with more Brussels control of national strategic agricultural plans. How is the cabinet going to avoid far-reaching interference by the European Commission with national agricultural policy? Mr. Chairman. It now seems as if the SGP thinks that Europe is not doing anything right. That's not the point I want to make. Of course, the SGP is also for good relations within Europe, for cooperation on all kinds of cross-border political and economic issues, and of course Europe is also doing good things. Let me mention a positive point. As you know, our minister of OCW, also in charge of emancipation, intends to ensure that the identity card no longer mentions sex. That is, of course, very offensive, especially for vulnerable people who may need sex registration, and very clumsy for citizens who want to see it mentioned for various reasons. We do not yet have an answer to our questions about this intention. But from the letter sent by the minister, I tasted that she would also like to implement the same idea for the passports. However, the EU Regulation 2252/2004 provides for a mandatory mention of the sex on passports. That's a good thing. As it turns out, my group is also aware of the good aspects of European legislation. Mr President, I will conclude. This contribution focused mainly on the dark side of the present era, not on the corona virus that is struggling with throughout Europe, but on the virus of extremist terrorism and of jihadism. It is important to set not only the approach of the government, but also the light: light in the darkness that indicates signs of hope. Our Christian roots are directly opposite the roots of evil. And Christian roots have their origin in Christ as the light of the world. That light conquers the darkness in a phenomenal way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u99	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Mr. Backer wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u100	Those were nice words, finally. I would like to return to the issue of Poland and the rule of law. The Court of Justice has found that Poland has increasingly moved away from the rule of law by, among other things, appointing party people in the Constitutional Court who have entered that court solely for party political reasons. And they've retired judges who were qualified. Now this court has de facto abolished the right to abortion by a ruling. You are responding to Mrs Mijatovic's reaction from the Council of Europe. But is it not the case that the legal problem is at the root of this? You like the outcome for political reasons, but is it not more important to note that the rule of law has become lacking in Poland?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u101	Mr Backer cites two examples. The example of abortion has just been linked to the prohibition of abortion on children with Down syndrome. I can't imagine that we shouldn't be protecting that human life. So that's what Poland wants to do. The other example mentioned by Mr Backer was about those judges and that constitutional court. I'm not very good at that, but I thought it turned back in 2018. But keep me good; I'll check it out and you'll hear from me later. In any case, I believe that this has been reversed because it has indeed been done in the wrong way. And I think it's an excellent idea if that happens, to address each other. I would also like it very much if other countries would address us, for example on our policy on all kinds of things that I think: should we do so in this way? Think of euthanasia, abortion practice here, the way we deal with drugs and the like. It would not be surprising if other countries were to call us into question in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u102	Mr President, I shall leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u103	Thank you, Mr. Backer. Mr. Van Apeldoorn, you have a very short interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u104	I will be very brief, Mr President. As far as the rule of law is concerned, I think Mr Schalk is right to say that there is no question of dealing with certain parts. But then he seems to want to put it in a kind of relativizing perspective by saying that it also depends on your values and whether or not they are rooted in, for example, a certain Christian belief in life. In this context, the lhbti-free zones set up by Poland have been mentioned earlier. I do not think they are in keeping with the principles of the democratic rule of law. That is what Mr Schalk said in an interrupting debate with Mr Vendrik: yes, that scares me too. But Mr Schalk's party in the European Parliament did not want to support the European Parliament's resolution condemning those lhbti-free zones. They voted against it. So I understand that Mr Schalk says: 'I will, but we do not condemn it when it comes to the democratic rule of law'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u105	Thank you for this question. I have indicated that criminals should be punished, victims should be protected by law, and that there should be separation of powers and independent justice and so on. With regard to the resolution you are referring to, I must confess to you quite frankly that I do not know it, I can say that if I look at that subject from the SGP and very personally, it is quite different from looking at an Ihbti-free zone or something. You will never have heard the SGP argue that in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u106	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u107	My group, however, is of the opinion that people struggling with lhbti should not be condemned in any way or whatever. On the other hand, and I think that I must say this honestly here too when we talk about this subject, it may also be clear that, from my religious beliefs, I reject the practice of certain sexuality other than in the marriage of one man and one woman, for philosophical and religious reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u108	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Can I ask Members to keep a distance of 1.5 metres in the Chamber, to put on masks when they talk to each other and preferably not to consult with all kinds of people in the Chamber, but to do so outside the Chamber? Will you at least keep five feet away? Because we don't want an outbreak here. The first parliament elsewhere in Europe has already been closed due to an outbreak in parliament. Of course, we don't like to experience that with each other. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Teunissen of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u109	Mr. Chairman. The ECSC, the European Coal and Steel Community, is regarded as the forerunner of the European Union, a union which today is best characterised as the European Coal and Goat Community. Almost 40% of the European budget is devoted to agriculture and fisheries, the dossier which has had little movement for decades, but which contains a very big misunderstanding. Today, I would like to clarify that misunderstanding. Not only because we are talking about EUR 367 billion of taxpayers' money, but above all because our future and future generations depend on this policy choice for a significant part. It is becoming increasingly clear that subsidies to intensive livestock farming are investing in a climate crisis, in a higher risk of pandemic outbreaks and in the loss of biodiversity. So we should not only talk about the scale of European agricultural subsidies, but also about their direction. The New York Times notes that European subsidies over the last seven years have been concentrated mainly on large farms and not on agricultural family farms. The new policy is a continuation of it. Grants to the livestock industry are continuing. Mr. Chairman. The loss of species and habitats in Europe is largely due to agriculture. 60% of protected species and 77% of habitat types are in an unfavourable conservation state. The time when the EU still cared about our nature is quite exact: Natura 2000. Since then, many EU measures have gone against our nature, literally. Agricultural subsidies are largely driven in the wrong direction by lobbyists. To determine the picture, the European Parliament has 705 Members, who are surrounded, literally, by 30,000 lobbyists who literally prescribe the law to them. Try to imagine: more than 42 lobbyists per Member of the European Parliament. Try to imagine that there would be more than 3,000 lobbyists around the Upper House alone and more than 6,000 around the Lower House. It does give democracy a very special accent. It gives democracy a very special accent, but would render the functioning of the States-General unworkable. How this works around the European Parliament, we saw two weeks ago when we voted around the schnitzelgate and the Dairygate. Meat lobbyists had put in a ban on names such as "wurst," "schnitzel" or "hamburger" for plant products. Because the message was: whatever's on it must be in it. Of course, this raises a problem, because a slave finch contains no lettuce and no finches. There are usually no bullets in bullet steaks and few people assume that hunters have been incorporated into a jägerschnitzel. Moreover, sausages, schnitzels and civilians do not grow on animals. They're processed products, man-made. In short, it was looking for nails on low water and in direct violation of the European green deal, because plant products can contribute to reducing greenhouse gases, nitrogen emissions and loss of biodiversity. Why would you keep such a description of shapes limited to meat? Fortunately, a large majority of the European Parliament also saw that, so that the proposal was voted off as a convulsion of the meat industry. But the question is whether this was a result of the European Parliament's progressive understanding or the commitment of lobbyists. A similar proposal, which sought to ban concepts such as "yoghurt," "cheese" or "butter" for plant products, was adopted. While it was completely comparable and could be assessed with the same arguments, a diametrically different outcome emerged. That requires further explanation. How could you not mention a yogurt culture based on what we used to call a yogurt plant on the packaging of a vegetable product? As if yogurt could only be made from animal dairy. Why should milk only come from the dairy glands of cows, when we know that thistle milk, nut milk or other types of milk, up to sun milk, also exist? Why should cheese have an animal origin, when we know that the production of peanut butter does not involve an animal? Both the EU and the Netherlands are committed to the transition towards more plant-based food: much needed for climate, biodiversity and health. Banning dairy names prevents that transition and innovation. In the past, the cabinet has repeatedly stated that there must be maximum freedom for producers to name their products as they wish, as long as it is perfectly clear to consumers what product they are buying and with what characteristics. Can the Minister promise that the Netherlands will not participate in banning dairy products with a plant origin which have similar properties as dairy products?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u110	I'm never gonna look at a bullet steak and a slave fink the same way again. I learned a lot this afternoon. However, a question about the position on the power of the lobbyists: 30 000 around that European Parliament. It was suggested that the European Parliament should be taken fully into account. You must indeed be afraid of lobbyism. At the same time, Mrs Teunissen gives an example that they did not take any interest in this proposal for the designation of meat substitutes. This is proof that in this case the European Parliament is not being forced by lobbyists, but ultimately making its own assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u111	I do not agree with Mr Koole. If one were to assume that one would not be influenced by lobbyists, one would not be so inconsistent about meat and dairy names. Because of course it is strange that meat names are not banned and dairy names are. This may have to do with the successful lobbying of vegetable meat substitutes lately, unlike the dairy sector. You can see that the dairy lobby has considerably more power in this area compared to the meat lobby.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u112	Mr Koole, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u113	This is mainly speculation. It could be that, because something has won, that lobby has been stronger and that, because something has not won, that lobby has not been strong. I would argue in favour of this, and I would ask Mrs Teunissen.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u114	I am pleased that Mr Koole made this point. I also understand that I can't pull that line 100% hard. You can see that the support for sustainable agriculture has increased enormously in recent decades among large parts of Europe's population. Nevertheless, matters such as meat names and the promotion of meat are still frequently lobbied and carried out by the European Parliament. In this sense, I would also like to show that the power of the lobby is indeed present, particularly in the field of agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u115	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u116	Mr. Chairman. The European Green Deal is losing its strength because of the new agricultural policy. It almost becomes a marketing term: the Green Deal. Analogous to the seven fat and seven lean years, the next seven years will be another seven lean years for animals, nature, environment and climate, and seven fat years for the big companies that rub their hands on the tons of subsidies from Brussels. I quote Thomas Oudsman from the Correspondent: "The most important part of the Green Deal is the ambitious agricultural component, called Farm to Fork. It describes how the EU's massive agricultural subsidies of EUR 400 billion, more than a third of the EU's entire budget, should be spent. Farm to Fork sets clear goals that bring a change to a nature-inclusive way of agriculture. Greenhouse gas emissions should go to zero by 2050. By 2030, 25% of agriculture should be organic. The use of pesticides should be halved as soon as possible. Agricultural subsidies under strict conditions could easily enforce these objectives without capturing farmers with new legislation. But strict conditions are not in the new policy. None of these objectives, or even an intermediate step towards these objectives, are formulated in the new common agricultural policy." The so-called eco-schemes in the new common agricultural policy ensure that farmers can earn money by working for certain forms of climate or nature-friendly agriculture. With such a reward system farmers are encouraged to green up is the underlying idea. EU Member States want only 20% of agricultural subsidies to be reserved for these eco-schemes. 20% is really far too low to have an effect, because as much as 80% is used to produce an opposite effect over the next seven years. Moreover, there are hardly any agreements and, as far as they are concerned, they are butter soft in the most literal sense of the word. The system is stalling, it is still based on scaling up, also at the expense of farmers. According to environmental scientist Jan-Willem Erisman farmers do not have a earning model, but they are a earning model. There's no pin to get in there. A earning model of the cattle feed industry, a earning model of the meat industry, a earning model of the leasing companies of their tractors with which they are regularly spotted around the Binnenhof, and a earning model of the Rabobank which in most cases financed their farm until the Special Management department puts an end to that. In short, farmers, like animals, nature, climate and the environment, are victims of problems that they did not come up with themselves, but that hang around their necks like a millstone. My question to the Minister is: is the cabinet considering a call to withdraw the unbridled common agricultural policy and to replace it with a proposal that meets the urgent problems of our time, without further delay? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. A little further away from the Green Deal that should really get hands and feet, we must not ignore the corona crisis in this debate. The IMF estimated that the damage caused by COOVID-19 to the world economy will amount to more than $12,000 billion. An important part of this will fall down in the EU. We know that the pandemic threat of zoonoses from the animal kingdom that is contagious to humans will turn our whole lives upside down. That is already the case at the moment. 75% of today's infectious diseases come from animals or, rather, from the way people deal with animals. Leading virologists such as Fouchier and Osterhaus, like other scientists, keep in mind that the avian flu virus can also mutate naturally in a variant that is contagious from man to man. What is Europe doing in response to this great pandemic threat? It finances with public money the campaign "Kip, the most versatile piece of meat, chicken!" At the same time, the EU is funding a pork campaign with a real promotional tour to convince consumers to eat more pork, while African swine fever is also blowing through Europe. Apparently, we have learned nothing from the coronapandemic that is now crippling the world. Whether people want to eat meat or consume dairy, they have to know for themselves. But the fact that consumption is driven by European money, contrary to the word Green Deal, is in no way consistent with all the good intentions that are still guaranteed from Brussels. Does the Minister recognise that the common agricultural policy increases the risk of zoonoses? Does the Minister address the risk of zoonoses in relation to pandemic outbreaks in the area of prevention? Is he prepared to raise this in Brussels? Finally, Mr President. The biggest misunderstanding within the EU is that over the next seven years we will continue on the current path of the common agricultural policy. We are the first generation to witness the climate and biodiversity crisis, and the last generation to be able to reverse the tide. Continuing threatens not only climate and nature, but also our food safety and our health. Mr. Chairman. The biggest and possibly most deadly mistake in world history is that of intensive livestock farming. All the reason to put an end to the bio-industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u117	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I'll take a look at the minister. Ten minutes? Then I'll suspend for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u118	The next item is the continuation of the General European Reviews. I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u119	Mr. Chairman. If you like, I will, but a lot of people I want to answer in my first sentences aren't there yet. Of course I'm like laundry in your hands. Mr. Chairman. This debate today is taking place against the backdrop of a very troubled world. Literally today. I started my day sending my condolences to my colleagues in Austria. Many of us are following with great interest the elections that are now taking place in our great ally, the United States. The developments there have a direct impact on what is happening here and in Europe. And, of course, this debate is taking place against the backdrop of a huge pandemic, which is causing enormous suffering, and all over the world Mr Vendrik specifically addressed this issue in Europe and here in the Netherlands. A relatively small but very practical part of this suffering is that you are not meeting in your own room today, but in this also beautiful room. If you had met in your own room, I would have added to the beginning of Mr Frentrop's speech, which took us back to the origins of the Republic of the Netherlands as an independent country, and then went back to the murders of Egmont and Horne, with a comment on the beautiful ceiling under which you may meet there. The art historians agree that this is where the peoples of the world are watching the meeting, which was previously held by the States of Holland and which is now being run by you. The art historians don't quite agree whether that's purely interesting, whether they're eavesdropping, whether they're jealous, or whether they're ready to take over. But it does illustrate something else. Since the birth of our country, we have been an open trading country, not behind the dikes, but abroad-oriented, self-interested, the life of trade, but also because the fact that we live on trade, also in view of the size and prosperity of our country, makes us vulnerable and therefore requires us to work continuously with the countries around us and to form coalitions, sometimes changing coalitions, Mr Knapen, but always coalitions. You also discussed this in detail in your introduction, because there are different views in Dutch history. There is no doubt that the place of the Netherlands is in the middle of Europe. That is why we are taking a very active part in the European Union from the outset. That is why we are taking a very active part in NATO, because we cannot defend ourselves. And that is why we participate very actively in the United Nations and all the other international organisations that are there. The challenge in the Netherlands is always: to form coalitions. That way you can be effective. So my work, the work of colleagues in the cabinet, is always: defending national interests. This is also at the top of the job description of every foreign minister, of all my colleagues: defending the importance of my country. For the Netherlands, but also for other European countries, this is an important part of this: ensuring that European cooperation is effective. For the Netherlands, this is also a very important part of this: defending international law, both inside and outside Europe, and defending human rights and the rule of law. It is right that you ask so many questions about this. Does the Dutch attitude of this cabinet lead to annoyance or damage in Europe? Mr Backer asked for this and Mrs Huizinga also asked for it. For a number of reasons, my full answer is no. The Dutch government's attitude to finance is in a very long tradition. Also in the offices of Kok and Balkenende, the then rulers, Gerrit Zalm, Jan-Kees de Jager, Hans Hoogervorst, negotiated the European budget very firmly. That happened from the very logical point of view: of course a budget is needed, because it is all about taxpayers' money; that has to be earned with hard work, including in the Netherlands. Whether it's national politics, municipal politics or international politics, we're careful about tax money, so that's what we're negotiating critically. Nobody's surprised about that either. Of course there will be the necessary kettle music, because everyone stands up for that national interest. But in the end one also realizes how that went in the past. We need to get on with each other. Mrs Huizinga referred to the Clingendael report. In my opinion, the Clingendael report described quite precisely the position that the Netherlands is taking. Of course, I debate more often in the Lower House than in the Upper Chamber, also with the full encouragement of the Christian Union. It is a traditional ruler of the line: not too much expansion, not too much to Europe. In a lot of ways I can agree with that, in some areas a little less. As far as foreign policy is concerned, I would like to go a little further. For example, on foreign policy, I would like to go a little further than the Christian Union in the Lower House. In short, a foreign minister and other colleagues working on the international playing field are all defending national interests. That doesn't scare anyone. Countries also know very well that the Netherlands knows its place in Europe and that we are constructive in it. In this way, therefore, the negotiations have taken place on the finances that were a major part of your input. My answer is divided into a number of chapters. I shall first address the recovery fund, i.e. the extra package due to the pandemic, then the multiannual budget, the rule of law, the euro and monetary union, corona, the climate, the conference on the future of Europe, migration, foreign and security policy, the digital economy and inevitably another chapter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u120	The Minister began so clearly with a reference to part of my contribution. He said: Europe is no different from the Netherlands; we have always done so. Indeed, that report by Clingendael states that the Netherlands' commitment is mainly economic and financial. My reference was mostly about the huge hetze that has been going on against the Netherlands after the event, which I can honestly say is a bit clumsy timing of the statements made by the Minister of Finance. At a time when a country is faced with an almost unmanageable situation and is facing major economic losses, there was still little empathetic reaction. It is quite possible that the Dutch government was quite right. Probably was the façade. But couldn't the pitch and the way that was communicated be different?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u121	The Minister of Finance, like every minister, speaks on behalf of the entire cabinet. I also indicated that the Minister is in a tradition of Dutch Cabinets and Dutch Finance Ministers. This discussion, which was conducted against the backdrop of a terrible pandemic that affects us all, by the way the Netherlands, has an extra load. Of course, in a number of southern European countries this debate has also been fiercely held in the press. That happened here too, by the way. The Netherlands can be accused of going against public opinion in a number of southern European countries by focusing on finance. With equal rights, of course, you can blame a number of countries for signing a pamphlet in which they say very loudly that they want eurobonds. That is exactly what a very large part of the Dutch public says no to. Two years ago, the Social Cultural Planning Office carried out extensive research on this subject. That illustrates exactly my point. Every foreign minister has his job description at the top: defending the national interest. And if it's okay, at least for my job description, it always means: make sure you work well with the countries around you and show that you want to come to a good result eventually. The Dutch commitment has been from the beginning: if extra money becomes available, then the economy must be stronger. That is a very decent position. In economic terms, it is a decent position. There is no point in transferring money to a country that does not have a competitive economy. It just doesn't make sense. Companies are free to decide where they invest in Europe, whether it is a start-up or a large, established company. So the question where that company would settle depends on the question: how good is the infrastructure there, how high are taxes, what does social legislation look like and what is the quality of justice? You don't compensate for that with European payments. That's why it makes sense to make that connection. That's what countries understood. There are a lot of people who can read these articles in the German press, for example: it is a good thing that the Netherlands is in that position; compliments. So it's not like there's unisono anger or indignation about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u122	I understand that, too. I also said that in the end I agreed with the commitment, but that the way of communicating might have been a little happier. It is perhaps also good to remember that in Europe it is not just about content. It's also about the image and the imagery. In that respect, I wonder if that could have been a little more empathetic. The content of what you want and the way you do it may be good within Europe, but it may not have done so much good outside Europe, among the people. But I would like to thank the Minister very much for his comprehensive answer; he does not have to repeat the same story again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u123	But Mrs Huizinga is putting it to me again, so I will respond to that. If a minister is not prepared to stand up for the importance of his country, then he does not earn his salary. That is what my colleagues are doing, and those colleagues have not decided 'we are not going to make a manifesto about Eurobonds, because that is what makes the Dutch people angry'. That didn't happen either. It's inevitable. I went to Spain and Italy in the middle of that discussion, to speak to my colleagues and to speak to the press, with which I made it clear: we are clear about what we want, we want to get out, but we also want to see reforms. Mr. Chairman. I come to the questions that relate to the recovery fund, as it eventually became called. Of these, the economic conditionality, i.e. the link to reforms, and the constitutional conditionality, which I shall come back to later, are indeed important elements. First of all, Mr Frentrop asks: is the allocation of funds from that fund now linked to the extent to which a country has been affected by corona? It's a combination. The resources are divided into two phases. For allocation in 2021 and 2022, unemployment rates over the past four years are linked to population size and national product per capita. So that's before the corona crisis. For allocation in 2023, the key is based on unemployment and GDP loss in 2020 and 2021, so it is linked to the impact of the crisis. Of course, it's inevitable at this time; if you want to be able to spend it quickly, you have to do it partly with some older figures, but once there are figures about the impact of the crisis, they are processed. Then Mr Frentrop asks: how is the part to which the Netherlands can refer? That's about 5.5 billion. That will have to meet the same criteria as those applied to everyone. The Netherlands has not yet decided when we will call on it. That does not necessarily have to be done this year; this can also be done in the course of next year. And indeed there are very practical elections and cabinet formations through them, so that is one of the considerations that play a role in the question of when to call upon them. Mr Van Ballekom asks why it was 750 billion, whereas the joint proposal from France and Germany was 500 billion at the time. Those 500 billion in that proposal were gifts. A whole number of countries were back on a much higher figure, with double the figure. The final outcome is 360 billion loans and 390 billion grants or grants. This explains why the amount, but also the composition, is different from the original proposal of Germany and France. Mr Van Ballekom also asked whether there was still capacity under the European Stability Mechanism. That's right. This mechanism has, of course, been set up for the euro area countries and the recovery fund is available to all Member States. Mr Van Ballekom asks what would happen if a parliament did not agree to the own resources decision, which is again necessary to launch that recovery fund. As long as not all Member States have been advised, the Commission will not be able to allocate funds from the Fund. The refunds requested by Mr Van Ballekom are therefore not on the agenda. Mr Van Ballekom and also Mr Gerbrandy asked what is the relationship between the budgetary authority, as it is called in the proposal, which in practice is the European Parliament and the Council, and the European Court of Auditors. The European Court of Auditors keeps all the powers it has and can therefore control all the expenditure and programmes. The budgetary authority will assess the concrete plans submitted. Mr Van Ballekom asked about the essential issue of linking payments from the recovery fund to the reforms for the Netherlands. This has taken shape, among other things, in an emergency braking procedure. The procedure is that the Commission assesses whether a country's plans meet the objectives, both the reform targets and the spending targets. The European Financial Committee will be consulted on this. Mr Van Ballekom knows it. These are national and financial experts. In doing so, they will seek unanimity. Should a Member State consider that the measures, the expenditure or the reforms do not meet the criteria, one Member State may request the President of the European Council to put that issue on the agenda of the European Council. Several Member States can do that, but one Member State is sufficient. As long as this issue has not been fully discussed in the next European Council, the Commission cannot take a decision. The starting point is that this should normally not take longer than three months, because there are sufficiently frequent European Councils. If it still does not reach a unanimous verdict, then there will be a very perplexing political situation. It is obvious that the Commission is going back to the Economic and Financial Committee. Of course, no one wants you to have an endless ping-pong situation. In this way, therefore, the possibility has been created that even one country, which was really the Dutch commitment, can make sure that if there are doubts there is once again a very sharp judgment and political consequences can be attached to it. Mr Van Ballekom also asked about the timing. Is it true that commitments must have been made by the end of 2023 and that the plans must therefore be assessed and approved, along the procedure I have just outlined? Should payments also be made before 2026? That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u124	I'm always optimistic, but we might still get a third wave of the pandemic. The economy is shrinking. We have taken into account in the budget the recovery of growth in the new year. There is therefore a chance, based on the decisions of the old or new cabinet, that the Netherlands will avail itself of benefits. Let me take a look at the recommendations in the reform programme and the stability programme, which is simply part of the cycle of the European Semester. We should do a number of things: strengthen the resilience of the healthcare system and tackle aggressive tax planning, for example. Is it the case that if we come up with a plan and the Minister acts in the Dutch interest, Cyprus could stop that benefit?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u125	The scheme applies, of course, to every country. There should be good reasons for that. Mr Backer knows that the Netherlands has an impressive track record on reform. This cabinet has taken important steps on climate and pensions. The previous cabinet has taken important measures, all of which have finally been adopted here, such as the AOW age, care measures and measures in the housing market, which I myself have been able to debate extensively with you. This has put us in a position where we are financially strong, with great sacrifices and commitment from the people. That helps enormously in a crisis like the present. This also helps greatly in the European negotiations. Time pressure on our side is less. We have reformed a great deal. There are still measures to be taken which political parties will appreciate differently. I have the suspicion that even D66 will not sign with every measure on the cross. But at a time when we are in the political calendar, we are sitting rather shortly before elections and a cabinet formation. So that is one of the elements to consider, because then everyone will undoubtedly go to the electorate with these kinds of proposals, won't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u126	So the answer is yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u127	Then there is Mr Van Ballekom's question as to why payments are not made in instalments. In any case, there are two stages in this: the stage that I have already mentioned towards Mr Frentrop, which is linked to the figures for the past year, and one that is linked to the actual impact of the pandemic. A country will then have to show that it meets the criteria. In a way, it's a tranched package. Mr Van Ballekom's question and Mr Koole's question as to how the decision-making process is now taking place in the trialogue, as it is called, which is currently taking place between the European Parliament, the European Commission and Germany as President. The discussion focuses on two parts. One element is that the European Parliament would like to see more money earmarked for innovation, and the other is the conditionality of the rule of law. On the first point: The Netherlands considers innovation to be a key element of the European financial package. We are not prepared to accept an increase in the ceilings, but if more money for innovation is released in there, that was fine with us. As far as the rule of law is concerned, I shall be going into more detail in a moment. There was no discussion yesterday, Mr Koole seemed to suggest that, but last week he did. At that time I also had contact with the negotiators of the European Parliament, because I hope, of course, that they will be able to tighten up the text, which is also a Dutch wish... The Netherlands voted against the current wording with a number of countries in Coreper, the Permanent Representatives Assembly, but because it is a majority decision-making process, this text has finally become part of the trilogue negotiations. But we would welcome tightening up. Then Mr Van Ballekom, related to the recovery fund, asked about the relationship with the other measures taken in response to the crisis. First of all, he referred to the European Central Bank's programmes with a somewhat classic term that implies extra money being printed up. This naturally leads to additional liquidity that makes it easier for banks and economies to attract money, which creates a further pressure on already low interest rates. The European Central Bank is, of course, autonomous in this; I cannot give instructions as a minister. Everyone also agrees that only the European Central Bank's policy cannot be the answer to an economic crisis and certainly not to this crisis. In addition, prior to the agreement on the multiannual budget and the recovery fund, agreements were reached on a pan-European guarantee fund through the European Investment Bank, Mr Van Ballekom, well-known. This is where the first transactions are expected in the coming weeks. In addition, additional space has been created under the European Stability Mechanism. No applications have yet been submitted. Under the unemployment programme, the SURE programme, loans were granted to 17 Member States. So Mr Van Ballekom is right to say that there is still a considerable space available under these facilities. Mr Van Apeldoor asked what I think of the European Central Bank's call to make the recovery fund permanent. That is an opinion that the Netherlands does not share. In our opinion, this fund is a one-off response to the corona crisis, as it has been established - and not an instrument for now and for eternity. Mr Van Apeldoorn also asked about democratic legitimacy. As with all European decisions, the decision has been taken by Heads of State or Government who are accountable to their national parliaments. This is very frequent in the Netherlands. In addition, as Mr Van Ballekom pointed out, the own resources decision must really be ratified in all parliaments. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked whether other measures could have been taken as an alternative to the recovery fund. He mentioned extra tax on companies or on financial transactions. Proposals for this have been published a long time ago by the Commission, which has never led to unanimity. Any form of tax is of course not a free lunch; someone has to pay for it. In the case of financial transactions, the Dutch pension fund will undoubtedly pay a significant part; it belongs to the largest financial institutions in the world. Eventually, the retired will pay for it. So you can have that discussion, but it's not a free lunch. Mrs Faber pointed out that in her view the recovery fund should not be allowed under European rules. I don't agree with her. Within European rules, the possibility of temporarily raising the ceilings has been used. On this basis it is possible to borrow temporarily. This is under the democratic control that I have just described. You may or may not be in favour of it, but it's not against the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u128	I would like to comment on what the Minister just said about alternatives to the recovery fund. The SP mentioned a financial transaction tax. We could also consider other forms of taxation, such as taxes on large assets in Europe or large profits from business. The minister says there's no free lunch. But that also applies to the recovery fund, doesn't it? Well, that's not an argument to say "we won't" then, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u129	Free lunches do not exist, is an economic calendar wisdom. I'm just pointing out that you can talk about alternatives. All due respect to them; they have indeed been put on the table in Europe before. But neither is the recovery fund, Mr Van Apeldoorn is right - it is a free lunch. There's always someone who pays.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u130	The difference is that with a financial transaction tax you collect money from a sector that can suffer well rather than finally guarantee the Dutch taxpayer. I was just curious to see what the Minister thought about the content of these proposals rather than saying: it is not a free lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u131	"Sector" sounds very abstract. I pointed out to you that the largest financial institutions in the Netherlands are, by the way, also among the largest pension funds in Europe. The term sector conceals the fact that it is just pensioners and that pension funds will eventually pay that tax on their behalf. It's a fair discussion, but it does illustrate that it's not a free lunch. Mr Koole asked if I agree with Commissioner Timmermans that the recovery fund also offers an opportunity to use it for the greening and sustainability of the economy. Very much so. This is also in line with the conditions for the use of these investments: both greening and a further transition to a digital economy. Mr Otten asked whether agreeing to the recovery fund would be contrary to the government agreement, which was against a debt union. That's not in conflict. In a debt union, each country would be jointly and severally liable for the debts of all others, indeed eurobonds. This is clearly not the case here. This is based on the European budget, so that is the responsible party. Mr. Chairman. I hope I have answered the questions about the recovery fund. I shall now turn to the questions relating to the multiannual budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u132	I waited for the Minister to answer the questions about the recovery fund. Have I understood him correctly that there can be no expenditure until the own resources decision has been ratified?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u133	No loans can be raised, and you need them to spend that money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u134	When does the government think that the Member States, the 50 parliaments, have successfully completed the ratification procedures? This could mean that the EU has been paralyzed. We haven't seen anything yet, I don't think the Lower House has. I guess a lot of rooms haven't seen that yet. So if that time is hugely long, what happens in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u135	The Dutch commitment is to achieve good and fast decision-making at the same time. Some of you have already pointed out that the whole package is now before the European Parliament on very important matters. I sincerely hope that this will soon lead to the conclusion that you and I have that content, but that that will also be timely. Of course, it's uncomfortable that that puts a huge pressure on time. Mr Van Ballekom is quite right about that. It is really not the case that the Netherlands likes it or thinks it makes sense. It is important that everyone can look carefully at the plans. That is also the right now for MEPs. But I realise that it will also put a time pressure on you and me to assess the whole package and specifically the own resources decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u136	Mr Van Ballekom, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u137	I fear that all this will not be done before 1 January and perhaps not even before the summer, but we will see how it is done. Can I ask one more question about the procedure for the condition of reform? One Member State may initiate that procedure. Then it goes to the European Council, where the opinion of the EFC is also used. The European Council normally decides by consensus. That one Member State is either left standing alone or supported by four or five, or let us say six Member States with solidarity who agree with the Netherlands. What happens then?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u138	It is, of course, a very serious political situation because we have not yet experienced it. On the one hand, I understand Mr Van Ballekom's question, because it is a crucial question. On the other hand, this cannot be sketched. In the end, therefore, it means that in the European Council, in which each country has to agree, if it has the power of agreement or not. Hope you don't have to use that power, not use it alone. But somewhere there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u139	Mr. Van Ballekom, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u140	However, I find it very difficult to call it an emergency braking procedure if you have to decide by consensus on reforms by a minimum number of Member States. But okay, I'm really curious what that regulation will look like in the end. Maybe we'll get to talk about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u141	The fact that the procedure exists, of course, casts an important shadow. Countries will realise that this procedure exists. Your questions were also about this: what does it mean for the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u142	I agree with Mr Van Ballekom: this emergency braking procedure is, of course, totally a shambles for domestic political consumption: look, how well we have negotiated in Brussels. This, of course, is nothing in practice. But that's not what my question is about. I can hear the Minister say very easily that the government agreement has not been broken with the debt union that has now been entered into. That's going too fast for me anyway. The whole world thinks so. President Macron celebrated the press conference on the day of the agreement. There is only one country in the world that does not find this, and that is the Netherlands. Could you explain to me a little bit more clearly why you believe that there have been no de facto joint debts here? You put it into shape, but in practice it did. I'd like to hear it from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u143	I believe that Mr Otten was a banker in his previous life. Then he knows the difference with joint and several liability, each for the whole. They're Eurobonds. This is not: each for the whole. This is a loan based on a European budget. This is limited in terms of the amount and time. This is not a joint and several liability, because there is a very partial liability.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u144	How would the minister translate "dette commune" into Dutch? That's what the French president was talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u145	I'd translate that into "common debt," and that's not this. But the French president also has a home audience. This is precisely in line with the discussion I had with Mrs Huizinga at the beginning. In other countries, of course, there are also statements. They sometimes lead to surprised reactions here, for example with Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u146	Okay. So I note that the Minister, like the Prime Minister, believes that Mr Macron, President Macron, is wrong. I'm noticing that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u147	It's not a "dette commune." La somme des reves. Tout a failure. I am going back to the multiannual budget and I shall begin with Mr Van Ballekom's contribution. He's a little bit more gloomy than I am about the modernisation. We have previously shared with the Chamber what was the commitment of the Netherlands. This was also the subject of the debate last year. The commitment was not to increase the national contribution, modernise and link to the rule of law. I note that very important steps have been taken. It has not become exactly like our ideal, but it cannot be done in a Union of 27. But the things we bet on back then were delivered. If you look at the spending side and compare it with the previous MFK, you will see that more is being devoted to research and innovation, to climate. Mr Koole pointed that out. Migration and security are key issues, and these were also included in the Dutch strategic agenda. The Horizon innovation programme, which is very important to us, is being increased and is still based on excellence. So the best programs get money and there is no dividing justice. There is 30% for greening and sustainability. I have heard very well that some of you say that you would like to see an even greater reduction in cohesion and agriculture, but it has been reduced by 10%. This has once again led to great resistance in a number of other countries, but it fits in with a long-standing trend which has also been used by the Netherlands. Mr Van Ballekom asked about the remaining balance, the remainder to be more liquid, of 300 billion. This follows from the budgetary rules. You also asked about the articles from which that follows. It follows from Article 10 of the Financial Regulation, which allows investments to be actually spent for three years after the end of the budgetary period in which they were reported as investments. Then Mr Van Ballekom asked why there is no midterm review. The Dutch government has never been very enthusiastic about such a midterm review, because in the past this has mainly led to an increase in the cohesion envelope. We don't think you should create a moment of upward pressure. The recovery fund does have an evaluation after three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u148	I would ask the Minister to clarify my understanding of the money left over from the previous budget, so to speak. That's 308 billion. That's money that hasn't been spent yet. Last week I asked the Prime Minister if there was any money left from the previous budget. The Prime Minister still looked at the Minister of Finance and said, "Well, no, not really." And now it appears that 300 billion have not yet been spent. I'd like to verify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u149	It has not yet been spent, but if the plans that meet the criteria are issued within the budgetary period, that money may be spent for a further three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u150	I think it is very important to note in this debate, including on the new fund which has not yet been spent, but for which 750 billion has been made available, that there was 300 billion left to spend immediately over the next three years to stimulate the European economy, to absorb corona and so on. So that was all available, even more so: that is still available. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u151	More, because, in response to Mr Van Ballekom's question, I indicated that there are also a number of other programmes, all subject to conditions, and that is also true for this. But indeed, not only is 750 billion available, there are other packages available, but all under conditions, fortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u152	And was the Dutch Government aware that the 300 billion was still there, or did it come afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u153	Sure. It's not new either. In part, it's also very explainable. When it comes to investment, that is also the case in the Netherlands, it can be for very practical reasons: there can still be legal proceedings, there are still things to be sorted out, and such a thing that you still intend to build a road, a bridge or a power plant, but that you have to wait for a judge's ruling first. It is not necessarily reproachable that this is taking longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u154	I feel a little misguided in the previous session, but thank you for the explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u155	Then I hope I've corrected that now. Mr Backer outlined that when you talk about the Dutch contribution side, and you can also calculate it in different ways, the focus of Dutch interest disappears. He asked if you shouldn't calculate that more precisely. I have already given you my initial statement that it has been the commitment of Dutch Cabinets, with or without D66 and with very different coalitions, for a long time: we are in the middle of Europe Europe is important to us, but in European budgets we are always aware, as in national budgets, of the fact that the tax money is. That's not new. That commitment has really not led to a massive euroscepticism. At my request, two years ago, the Social Cultural Planning Agency carried out extensive research into what the Dutch think of Europe. That was an excellent investigation. This shows massive support from a pragmatic perspective. Exactly the same view: we are in the middle of it, we are a trading country, we earn our living. We depend on Europe for our security, for our cooperation with justice. Of course, there are climate problems and cross-border environmental problems. The Dutch are very pragmatic in it. It is therefore not the case that the Dutch are massively against Europe, because since the 1990s there has also been a sharp discussion about what it costs. And that includes: what does it get? The cost goes for the benefit, also some seventeenth-century expression. At the same time, people in the same research.... we do not govern our country by the grace of investigations, but it is very interesting... very clear what they do not want. Then two things are very clear: we do not want to pay any more and we do not want any additional powers. People are very consistent about that. That is of course not so strange that, in the whole variety of opinions that are happy in Dutch politics, those opinions are present in all facets. But you really can't say that Dutch people are massively Eurosceptic. I'm glad you didn't. They're very pragmatic people. Then there is Mr Backer's question as to whether we should be more precise about what the revenues are. A lot of calculations have already been made for the part you can calculate, by the Central Planning Bureau, by the Bertelsmann Foundation. The WRR has also made a judgment on it. There is, of course, a very important part of it. That is what we are going to talk about, namely the constitutional side and the value side, on which you cannot do calculations. So there's no shortage of calculations. They are very positive for the Netherlands. I agree, but the public's perception of Europe shows very clearly that people are aware of it without having the amounts directly on the retina, how important Europe is. Mr Van Ballekom asked whether each country should introduce a plastic tax. That's not true. A calculation basis has now been agreed on the basis of the extent to which plastic is recycled. The Netherlands, by the way, is quite adequate in this respect. Mr Van Ballekom also asked what the government is looking at, which is so beautifully called a "carbon border adjustment mechanism." In fact, this is a possible tax on products from outside the European Union, if they come from countries that have less stringent climate policies than the European Union. The position of the cabinet is that it is open to that. It raises a number of questions because it has a major impact on world trade and will also call for reactions. At the same time, almost the whole world has backed that Paris Agreement. If everyone complies with these agreements, the level playing field should remain the same. If that is not the case, then you come to the uncomfortable question that the climate problem remains. Europe must take steps as a very prosperous, highly developed area and show that it is doing so. Otherwise, the structure will fall apart. Energy-intensive industries in Europe would then be put at a disadvantage. That's very real. The production of steel, fertilizer or chemical products in Europe would be much more expensive than outside, and then there might be more traffic to the port of Rotterdam, but that is uncomfortable. Moreover, the climate will not produce anything, because then you will only move CO production from Europe to another country. That is why we are open to it, but we are also aware of the vulnerabilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u156	I hear the Minister on the benefits of Europe and on the pragmatic approach. I know the minister a little longer. He makes that very small and says: we've always done it like this, we've always been economical and it's always been good. But my answer to that would be: there can of course also be a moment when you acknowledge the moment of leadership and say that this subject deserves a slightly different approach. Such an approach and leading the debate on the future of Europe could help you to know what the benefits are. Now the Minister says that all kinds of studies have been carried out. That's true. A study has been carried out of Europe itself, of the EU. One was done by the Bertelsmann Foundation. It is only about the added value of the internal market. The latest investigation of the CPB was carried out in 2009. I've been inquiring about it, but nothing's happened since then. I think it's wise for us to objectify that. The Court of Auditors also pointed that out. Then we can have a better discussion about it than we do now. I'd like to tell the Minister that he's in a position to ask. I could ask him. I don't think there's anything against facts and against explanations of those facts. I think that can only benefit the debate. Not this debate anymore, but the next.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u157	I have nothing against facts. Nor do I disagree at all with Mr Backer on the fact that the benefits of Europe, partly financially calculable, are far greater than the disadvantages. What I point out is that a very large part of the benefits are intangible, such as the community of values and the community of human rights. I think we agree on that, too. We can't calculate that part. Then you'll have the climate analyses separately. They're like or are coming from the Plan Bureau for the Environment this week. So you're getting that part very recently. I thought the 2018 WRR report wasn't in your analysis. This is also the subject of a detailed discussion. I agree with you that these figures are important. I just think that we have a lot of them and that they all point the way where you and I agree, which is very positive for the Netherlands. In my view, the only difference is that we have, that you are more concerned than I about the fact that we sometimes differ openly from other European countries. I am really convinced that I do not do my job well if I do not every time look at what it means to the Netherlands, especially because I have 26 colleagues who do exactly the same for their country. As long as you finally have the balance that you have to move on with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u158	I'll get back to you in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u159	Mr Vendrik specifically addressed the way in which agricultural policy was set up. I have already indicated, also to Mr Van Ballekom, that I am less gloomy that nothing would have been achieved. We are in a steady trend in which, as Mr Vendrik said, the share of traditional issues is decreasing, also in this multiannual budget, and that a greater proportion goes to the new challenges. For climate, environmental and nature objectives, a specific mandatory reservation is included in the first pillar of the common agricultural policy. That's really new. Combined with that trend down, that is another step in the right direction. You can discuss whether it is fast enough, but you cannot say that nothing is happening in the direction that Mr Vendrik would like to see. Mr Otten asked how we look back on the approach of the frugal four. I have already indicated more broadly how I stand about forming coalitions and defending national interests. Eventually, we also have to keep an eye on how we find each other. We'd do it again next time. Once again, the goals with which we stood with you a year ago about no higher net contribution, about economic conditionality and about rule of law conditionality, we were lucky to achieve. Then I come to that important rule of law conditionality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u160	I'd like to respond to that. You say you'd do it the same way again. We have arranged a non-optimal deal for the Netherlands and needlessly used all kinds of European partners through this frugal four-approach. The frugals didn't seem to pull up together either and let themselves play apart. Then you can't say with dry eyes that this was a good approach? Couldn't we have done that differently, where at least we wouldn't have had all that negative fallout we had now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u161	I try to point out where Mr Otten wants to land. He said in his introduction that we are not where the Netherlands would have liked to go. At least those were your words. And: we're fighting with everyone. I think there would have been more quarrel if we had followed Mr Otten's line. By the way, I don't think there was a fight. I do not think Mr Otten wanted an agreement at all. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u162	No, I told you to defend your own interests more as a country. That doesn't mean you have to argue unnecessarily with everyone. I've had a bit of an argument here, but I'm also going to get a motion adopted unanimously. One doesn't rule out the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u163	No, Mr. Otten. This is too easy for you. It cannot, of course, be that the Netherlands had negotiated even more sharply than it is now. We're getting all the blame from part of the Chamber that we've been toughly negotiating. You say it should have been even sharper, without a fight. No. You can't have your cake and eat it, mister Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u164	I can't get an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u165	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u166	Wasn't there any other strategy? I will tell the Minister that at that time I was talking to another minister about something quite different. We both agreed that the frugal approach would end in a fiasco. Apparently, people in the cabinet also felt that that wasn't going to work. Why hasn't another approach been adopted? I didn't get a good answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u167	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u168	Where's the fiasco?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u169	The frugals didn't last.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u170	Nonsense. I have a frugal meeting on Thursday. There we are going to talk again about the rule of law, in which we often hang out with these countries. In the meantime, I've had the French minister round here. He also gave all kinds of nice interviews about the good relationship with the Netherlands and the influence that the Netherlands has. Where's the fiasco, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u171	I suggest that the Minister continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u172	The rule of law; a very important subject. Indeed, we are still in that discussion. Mr Frentrop asked where the phrases in the Commission's plans on strengthening democracy were aimed at. They relate very strongly to the rule of law. One of you rightly quoted the fact that the rule of law and democracy cannot be sold separately. That is also the Dutch approach, and that of the European Commission. An important part of this is the new state of law test. It will cover all countries, including the Netherlands. In the forthcoming General Affairs Council next week, we will apply it for the first time to a number of countries. In addition, the European Commission will shortly present a European Action Plan on Democracy. I don't know the contents of that. Of course, we will share with you the Juice of the Cabinet. Mr Frentrop asked what the mandate of the EU INTCEN organisation was. He described that, I thought, as a spy organization. That sounded pretty exciting, to be honest. It's not that. It's not an operational service. They don't have their own powers. They're not gathering intelligence either. They are a cooperation platform for national intelligence and security services. Their input is framed in national legislation. In the Netherlands it is very sturdy. There is a separate committee for the intelligence and security services in the Lower House. On this basis, INTCENT provides EU policy makers with strategic analyses needed for the common foreign and security policy, which I will answer later on. INTCEN doesn't have its own budget either. It comes under the budget of the High Representative for Foreign Policy. National security and intelligence services are therefore a full national competence. Mr Van Ballekom then asked Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mr Vendrik for the reasons why there was no reverse qualified majority under that rule of law. As the Chamber knows, the European summit held a very long and fierce negotiation on this subject. It has also been made clear to the outside world, to Poland and Hungary, that they consider this an extremely sensitive subject. Moreover, it has also been made clear by us and by a number of similar countries that we consider it an extremely important and sensitive subject. That has ended in, I think, the enormous merit that for the first time there is such conditionality. Payments are linked to the rule of law. I understand very well that you say: we would have preferred it to be a reverse qualified majority. For me, this fell under the category of 'it would have been even better', but I also find the current procedure that has been agreed huge profits. The battle is now about the exact wording. It is not the case that the wording is now just about fraud, which was also a question from Mr van Ballekom and others, but we would like the wording to be broader, so that steps leading to the violation of the rule of law can also be included in this conditionality. Mr Van Ballekom asked whether there could be an interim recovery of money. I can tell him that, indeed, under current commitments, interim money can also be recovered with this instrument. On Hungary in particular, Mr Van Ballekom asks whether we believe that measures have been promulgated which are contrary to European standards and values. That is the case in a number of cases. This has led to a number of measures. I have discussed this very openly with the Hungarian colleagues on several occasions. This has also been discussed openly in the Article 7 procedure mentioned by a number of you. Some of these cases have been referred to the European Court of Justice. In the end, it has expressed an opinion on this, which in a number of cases also meant that Hungary had to amend the legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u173	As far as I am following the Council's latest findings, it is indeed a matter of limiting cases of fraud and corruption and not talking about independence of the judiciary, fair elections and free press. That is not in the Council's conclusions, whereas that is precisely where things are going wrong, especially in these two countries. That's the jumping point. The fact that corruption and fraud can also be part of conditionality is fine; this may also apply to more countries. But the jumping point is that, at least, I have made a point of this and I am also listening to the contribution of a number of my fellow Members on the matter of the principles of the democratic rule of law, such as the independent judiciary. That's not in the council conclusions. That is not part of conditionality. That is how I understand it so far, but the Minister seems to suggest that it is. What's the deal with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u174	The current wording "the Netherlands" and "the Netherlands" would like it to go further "the Commission" is already wider than just fraud. It is true that fraud has been used only by countries that wanted to do so, but that is not the current wording. That is why we have voted against the Dutch proposal, which was a broader wording, which would also include further steps towards undermining the rule of law. That is actually what the European Parliament is doing now. I can't predict the outcome of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u175	I understand that, but this is about choosing a political commitment, given how the force field is developing now. I believe that there are a number of groups today who believe that it is a very important point that conditionality should extend to the principles of the democratic rule of law, as I have just said. It's not just in this Senate that way. This also played in the Lower House. The Minister rightly refers to the European Parliament. That should therefore be the commitment of the Dutch Government. Otherwise we will make it a breaking point or I shall let it be formulated in such a way that it is a tough point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u176	You've been served at your beck and call. We voted against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u177	But it is about whether the MFF will receive support from the Dutch Government and whether this point will weigh very heavily in the final acceptance. The trialogue has yet to reach a number of parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u178	This is a majority decision-making point. We voted against it. In fact, I would expect Mr Backer and Mrs Huizinga at the microphone saying: now you have fought again with all those other countries. Yes, we fought because it is a very important point for us. But it is a majority decision-making point. Then Mr Van Ballekom asked why there is an EU commitment to gender equality and to Ihbti. Partly he gave the answer himself. The EU Treaty quite rightly includes the prohibition of discrimination and the right to equal treatment. As is often the case with laws and treaties, we are not there with the inclusion of a text, but then we have to take action. Indeed, some of you pointed out the very inhuman situation that in Poland a number of municipalities say that they are an Ihbti-free municipality. Those municipalities really are in Europe and are bound by the EU Treaty, but in order to put it into practice, further steps are needed. It has the full Dutch support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u179	I am pleased that the Minister is far removed from calling these Ihbti-free zones, by President von der Leyen, 'unhuman zones', and that he is strongly opposed to them. The question is what this means for the position of the Netherlands. Okay, a majority decision has now been taken in which conditionality is limited. It is a little more than fraud, but it does not cover all the features of the rule of law. My question is specific. That's what I put in my contribution. Is it not something to be included in the list of possible violations resulting in the reduction of benefits from the Multiannual Financial Framework in a country by local authorities of IHBTI-free zones, referred to by the President of the Commission as 'unhuman zones'? Isn't the designation of such a zone subject to the conditionality that the government should strive for?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u180	"Trying to" is no longer entirely non-binding, as we are already in a negotiating situation. I have already indicated that I hope that the wording on the rule of law conditionality will become a little broader, but at the moment it is not. At the moment this point would not be included, I'm afraid. By the way, there are other points of reference. For this reason, a number of municipalities in Poland have not received a subsidy from the Twinning Facility. This is a logical part of the peer review, the mutual assessment of the rule of law, when Poland is at issue. But this specific conditionality is not now in the criteria. It's not that we're empty-handed, but we have to do it along other routes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u181	It is very regrettable that it is not now. My question is whether, given the state of the negotiations, the Dutch Government can still make an active effort to this end. The European Parliament is busy. Trilogue's busy. In my input, I had asked for the following. If that is not the case, if it cannot be accommodated for any reason, then what is the Dutch Government doing to counter this hate campaign against the lbtiists in Poland, in a Member State of the European Union, to which we belong?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u182	I have already indicated to you that it is now too late in this particular section and that the Netherlands has been over-voted in our position on this issue. But there are a whole range of other instruments, including the peer review mechanism, our direct contacts with Poland and the European Union's subsidy instruments, which do provide a point of reference, which, fortunately, can be taken into account. The Netherlands will continue to make this point as long as it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u183	Mr Koole, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u184	Do I hear correctly that the Minister promises that these other instruments will really be used by the government to stop the hate campaign against those lhbti'ers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u185	Yes. Our commitment in the European Union will be to use these instruments. They are, of course, EU instruments. In addition, we are clear about it in our bilateral contacts with Poland and will remain clear about it for as long as necessary. Then Mr Knapen asked, following the ruling of the Dutch judge, that there could be no extradition to Poland because there are major questions about the independence of the Polish judicial system, how this is dealt with further. In this case, the Amsterdam Court has indicated that it will first await the ruling of the European Court, which is precisely about this point. That is also the right place to submit this, because the rulings of the European Court of Justice are binding on all Member States. In the meantime, we are in a stalemate; there is a point Mr Knapen has made. But the European Court's response is expected to be within a few months. Mr Vendrik asked whether Article 259 would be used, which would allow an individual state to press charges against another individual state. I have already indicated that the Netherlands is making a very serious point of the rule of law. To repeat it again, it can be seen from our voting position and from all the places where we are very active. At the very beginning of my speech I indicated that, in order to be effective, the Netherlands is always trying to form coalitions. The same applies in this area too, and fortunately there is a large coalition in the field of the rule of law. So I really have a very strong preference for using that Article 7 procedure in a coalition context to give the state of law as much teeth as possible and not to act alone as the Netherlands, if not strictly necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u186	It is at least remarkable that the Minister deviates so easily from this route, because I think we agree on the fact that the Article 7 procedure is not progressing. The complaint against Poland does not go any further in the Council and the complaint against Hungary, in accordance with Article 7, has not even been taken in proceedings by the Council. So that seems to be a dead end rather than an effective means of keeping Member States to the principles of the rule of law. On that point of conditionality about the budget, the Minister just said: we were actually voted on a heavier demand and a broader wording. In that case, we will not get that far in protecting the principles of the rule of law in Europe. Then why wouldn't the Minister be more interested in taking this route? This may also be possible with a group of Member States which can take a similar position.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u187	The vote I was just talking about was not an isolated position of the Netherlands; that was a group of countries. That illustrates exactly the point I just made with regard to this procedure. If you do that alone as a country, and that is really always true when you do something as a country alone, then you indicate that you have not been able to acquire allies. Once or twice, you can accept that, but it is an inalienable signal: there was no one who wanted to go with you. A very heavy instrument like this, which is already a bit in the question in Mr Vendrik's last contribution, should always be used in a coalition context, because there are a lot of procedures now in place. They run at the European Court of Justice, there is discussion about conditionality in the budget and the Article 7 procedure. Then I think it makes sense to let those routes do their job first. That is what I hear from the countries that are aligned with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u188	I still have a supplementary question, if I may. Have I heard correctly from the Minister that there is a growing coalition with regard to the rule of law? Do many more Member States subscribe to the idea of the Netherlands? Surely it should not be difficult to go to the Court of Justice with several Member States? By definition, you're not alone. Perhaps that is a better signal that the Netherlands is serious in such matters. One of the questions I have asked, but perhaps I can come back to it in the second term, is what else needs to be done to stop this flow of subsidies in the event of constant misconduct. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u189	Fortunately, there are many countries in Europe which consider the state of law to be an extremely important issue. That is why, for example, we have come up with this peer review. That is why, after very tough negotiations, we finally managed to get that rule of law conditionality in the budget. As the measure becomes more specific and heavier, the number of countries that want to do so decreases. I indicated to you that at that vote... Unfortunately, I cannot disclose the voting position of other countries unless they do so themselves. I can only say from the Netherlands how it was voted. I can tell you, in truth, that was with a number of other countries. That group was smaller than the number of countries with which I can happily raise a lot of other constitutional issues. My assessment and my conviction is that if you were to use such a sharp instrument as this, the group of countries would be very, very limited. In fact, I doubt there would still be a group. So this really depends on what consequences you want to bring to those rule of law criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u190	Do I understand that in those one and a half hours at the European Council, in which there was talk of conditionality in very general terms, there was a large coalition? Is it true that you lose every support when you specify it a little bit? Then I am even more concerned about the content of the regulation than I already was.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u191	Mr Van Ballekom once again puts it very gloomy. He says you'll lose all support. But Mr Van Ballekom knows Europe very well, so I am sure he recognizes what I am saying here. Fortunately, the general principle is widely shared, but as it becomes more specific and has financial consequences, or really specifically the relationship between countries, it becomes more sensitive. Here is the old saying: Erst kommt das Fressen, und dann die Moral. That does not alter the fact that, fortunately, there is room for action. I come to the questions raised with regard to EMU and the Stability and Growth Pact. Mr Frentrop, and especially Mr Van Apeldoorn, asked about the statements made by bank president Knot. Of course, I shared his analysis with interest. It's not entirely new. It was also known at the beginning of the euro. At that time, the Netherlands made a very strong commitment to the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact, because everyone realised the following at the same time. If you want convergence, which is stronger throughout Europe, then it must be strong for each individual country. Before joining the euro, you had to meet a number of criteria. The sovereign debt and deficit criteria were very important. Once you were a member, you had to live up to that. Unfortunately, these criteria have been violated by a number of countries. In the depths of the financial crisis, the Netherlands has also been over it, but over time we have always taken firm measures, under very different cabinets, to meet these criteria. The analysis itself was therefore known from the start of the euro. Klaas Knot points out that this is still the case. That is also why the cabinet has so firmly established the link between the recovery fund and economic reform, because the logic is still that you can only successfully be a single currency union and that you only have something to do with extra money from Europe, if you also ensure that your economy itself is sufficiently resilient, sufficiently competitive and sufficiently geared to the ageing population. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked when the SGP, the Stability and Growth Pact, will finally be called into question. We understand from his question that it is also a wish; that does not surprise me. At the moment, due to the crisis, the rules have been temporarily repealed. There is a discussion on an adjustment of the Stability and Growth Pact. As soon as further ideas are available, Mr Hoekstra will share both the proposals for this and the assessment of the Dutch Government with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u192	In any case, I hope that this government will be open to an adjustment of the Stability and Growth Pact. But I will come back to the story of Klaas Knot, because he talked about the transfer of sovereignty that would be necessary to make the euro sustainable in the long term. Then the Minister says: that is an old story, because we have always said that we need the Stability and Growth Pact. But that is not what Mr Knot was talking about. Or does the Minister now say that in order to actually enforce the Stability and Growth Pact in the future, in order to ensure that countries abide by it, we will have to create a political union?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u193	The Stability and Growth Pact was an international treaty and is still an international treaty. International conventions apply: pacta sunt servanda. The commitment to concluding the Stability and Growth Pact was that everyone kept to it. Unfortunately, this has not happened in practice. This leads to a new reality, an undesirable reality, which has led to a number of tightening of the Pact. But the moment you conclude an international treaty, whether that's this treaty or some other one, you transfer some of your sovereignty, because you have to stick to that treaty from that moment on. That's not new. Mr. Knapen asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u194	The Minister then repeats what the government has been saying all along: the Stability and Growth Pact must be adhered to. But the government also notes that this is not happening. Then the question is: should we go along with Mr Knot's story to make it somehow more enforceable than it is now? What does that mean? I would like to add one more thing. Minister Blok talks about convergence. The Stability and Growth Pact, which I would prefer to call the 'Instability and Crimean Pact', has not led to convergence at all. That wasn't the plan either. It has been hoped and said: with the euro we need more convergence. But economists of different plumes all note, unisono, that the euro has not led to more convergence, but to economic divergence. Politically, it has become a piece of cake; look at the discussions on the Stability and Growth Pact. So the question is: what does the Minister think about that? How is that gonna work out?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u195	Once again, if you want to form a single currency union, you have to let your economies grow together. That is not new; that was clear from the beginning. In concluding the Stability and Growth Pact, as with any other international treaty, a part of sovereignty was transferred, assuming that countries comply with international treaties. Unfortunately, in the particular case of this treaty, it has been found that this is not the case. That is not desirable. That's right. But that is why I say from the bottom of my heart: it is not a new discussion. It has, of course, gained a lot from this economic crisis, but I already mentioned that the Netherlands showed once again in the financial crisis of 2010-2012, with great dedication and sacrifices from the Dutch people, that it is indeed possible to comply with the Stability and Growth Pact with measures and then to be a very competitive economy. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u196	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u197	The Minister keeps saying: we need convergence. I note that there is no such convergence, but quite the opposite. The Minister then does not really have an answer to the question of how to achieve this convergence. I would like to go back to what he said at the beginning of his reply, including towards the Christian Union, namely that we should not give money to economies that are not competitive, for example Italy. We can keep a long story. We're not going to do that now, Mr. President. Please feel free to tell us why Italy is not exactly competitive. But one thing is clear: Italy no longer has the instrument of devaluation. What is Italy supposed to do? That's internal devaluation. That actually means recession. This is also an integral part of monetary union. The Minister completely ignores this in his analysis. We therefore note that this problem cannot be solved within the current EMU. Then Mr Knot says: I do have a solution. I'll ask the Minister what he thinks of that. It says that we must stick to the Stability and Growth Pact.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u198	Mr Knapen also asked about Italy, specifically about the level of public debt. So I can answer both questions at once. It is not a natural law that the Dutch economy is growing harder than the Italian economy. I think Italy is a fantastic country and a lot of people think so too, I think. It makes fantastic products, it's a pleasure to be there. There is no reason why the Italian economy could not grow as fast as the Dutch economy. I'd like to give it to them, too. It calls for a large number of interventions, which have been neatly defined by the European Commission. By the way, other economists, too, but the European Commission is relevant here. This makes country-specific recommendations every year, also for the Netherlands and also for Italy. This shows that it requires difficult measures. This has to do with things that we are also dealing with here: retirement age, quality of education, taxation. But it's not impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u199	I would like to come to the Minister's aid on this point. We have indeed been involved in budgetary discipline. We have passed the Sustainable Public Finance Act in this house, we have acted accordingly, at least the D66 Group has taken responsibility for that in the opposition too. But there appears to be a phase difference in the various economies. That is why convergence is not perfect. It is also not perfect within countries; there are whole regions that cannot get along. What happened in the crisis? The European Commission and the Eurogroup, led by Cento and its successor, have said that they are going to look at customisation in order to better adapt to the economies and thus make a more tailored package of economic recommendations. I hope the Minister agrees with me that this offers a possibility. I admit immediately that we are losing the simple discipline of 60% and 3 but it is more tailor-made that allows us to meet it. What does the Minister think of that? Did I come to his aid or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u200	That depends very much on its implementation. In general, you can say: who can be against customization? But at the same time, we both know the history of the Stability and Growth Pact. Unfortunately, that was one of the broken promises, at least in a number of cases. I also think that Mr Backer agrees with me that this new system should not lead to broken promises being laundered. Because in the end, the goal must still be that we are growing together, not by having it less together, but by having it better together. Once again, there will indeed be proposals, led by Mr Centeno. Mr Hoekstra will share this with the Chamber, with our judgment. We're gonna take a serious look at that. However, it remains true that each country must ensure that its economy is competitive and able to meet challenges such as an ageing population. One of the most visible is the discussion on AOW retirement age. These were sharp debates here too, and that was also very clear from the people. But the population also sees it very clearly if there were transfers to a country where people retire much earlier. That is just one of the reforms that can be discussed. It also differs from country to country. There are many other countries, in southern Europe and elsewhere, which have also increased their retirement age. But it's one of the measures. That customization should not be that you really do not have to take inevitable, obvious measures anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u201	I fully agree with the Minister. I would remind you that there were also parties in this country who went into the elections with promises that the retirement age would not change and that mortgage interest rates would not change. Reform is complicated in every country. Mr Otten pointed out just now. However, I would think that there I see the positive side of it: that it could be more tailored to the stage in which economies are in place and the capacity to reform, without losing discipline, and that we would have a better discussion. I would very much welcome that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u202	It depends very much on the design.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u203	I'll take a look at the time, Minister. You have 11 cubes if I'm not mistaken, and we're working on the third block right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u204	Sure. The most extensive I've had. You know that at 6.15 p.m. in the House of Representatives I may also speak on the same subject. After that, I will come back to speak with you again on the same subject, all to my satisfaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u205	For the record, we are going to suspend this debate from 6 p.m. to 8:45 p.m. Then you know that we will not start this debate again until 8:45 p.m. You're aware of that. We are going to see if we can reduce the number of interruptions somewhat, in quantity at least. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u206	In that case, the Minister will be very excited if he has to deal with the same subject again in the House of Representatives. I think the discussion here is of a rather high level, but I do not hear the right answers. Perhaps then the Minister will be able to practice a little bit on better answers, because Mr Van Apeldoorn, for example, had some very good questions about the divergence between the European economies, which has only increased. The Stability and Growth Pact is, of course, a dead letter. The only country that has ever complied with this is the Netherlands after the financial crisis, and that was also a gross policy error. I'm not getting any good answers here. It is true that there is divergence. The Minister speaks to me in a background in the financial world. I think he's got one of his own, so he needs to know better than he's pretending to be here right now. And let us not forget that a very important transfer of wealth has been going on for years, and that is through the European Central Bank, which has been printing billions of money for years as if it...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u207	Mr. Otten, what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u208	I would like a better answer, also to Van Apeldoorn's questions: how does the Minister see the Netherlands there... It's totally kicking the can down the road we've been doing for years. How does the Minister see this ending for the Netherlands? I don't see how it's gonna end well if this goes on like this. I'd like to hear that from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u209	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I would ask the Minister to respond briefly, but not to reply again to the questions that have already been answered. We will have to do it with those answers, even if we can judge them differently. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister for his own reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u210	First of all, the Netherlands is not the only country that has met the criteria, but I do agree with Mr Otten... Well, no, Germany doesn't always. That was exactly in 2003 the sinner. Luxembourg, and certainly the Baltic States, have also made enormous efforts. Mr Otten asks where it ends. Yeah, I think that's just so gloomy. If we don't do it right, it could end. No one has any interest in that. Hence this commitment: ensure that countries still take the measures to make their economies competitive. There's customization in that. Then I'll come to Mr. Backer. The Dutch recommendations do not say: you need to raise your retirement age again. For the record, Spain has also increased its retirement age. Moreover, the country-specific recommendations are public. I think they relate to the labour market or education. In Italy, they will be more focused on pensions, education, the legal system. But there is no alternative to taking those measures. The essence of my speech remains: if the measures are taken, it does not have to end. We will try to avoid that with all our might. But the key lies very much in national measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u211	Mr. Otten, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u212	I understand that this 6 billion for the Netherlands is conditional on reforms in the Netherlands, for example in the area of mortgage interest relief. Did I just hear the Minister say, I believe in response to Mr Van Ballekom, that he is losing the 6 billion because no reforms are being made before that April deadline next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u213	I didn't say that at any time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u214	Okay. Then I didn't hear it right. Then I'd like to hear from the Minister how he looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u215	That's what I reported. For the Netherlands, the same criteria apply as for other countries...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u216	Mrs. Oomen, I hear you talking. Do you want the floor? No, I didn't. Then the Minister has the floor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u217	The Netherlands has the same criteria as other countries. There is therefore a link between the use of these gifts and the economic reforms. First of all, the Netherlands has already reformed a lot, so I cannot judge how the Commission looks at the reforms that have already been implemented. I also drew your attention to the moment in the political calendar, rather shortly before elections and a cabinet formation. That leaves it obvious that first of all the electorate is expressing its opinion on all the plans that all our parties have in all these areas. This will then be laid down in a cabinet formation in measures in a government agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u218	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u219	So I note that we will miss the deadline, and then we will have to wait longer for the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u220	No, we're not missing the deadline, because it's going to run a long way into next year. I also indicated to you that the cabinet has not yet made a final decision. But the decision on the forthcoming elections has been taken, because the elections will take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u221	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u222	I come to the questions about the health care system. Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mr Backer both asked about this. The European Union is, of course, governed by the European Treaty. Health care is a national competence. I suspect that many of you want to keep it that way for important parts of the healthcare system. You're talking, for example, about the insurance system. This system in the Netherlands is very different from that of other countries. The Netherlands has a much wider system of care for the elderly than any other country in the world. So I do not know what it would add if we tried to harmonise it in Europe. Especially in view of the level at which the Netherlands is located, I do not think it is immediately advisable to pursue this objective. There are also cross-border aspects of health care. Minister Schippers, for example, used antibiotic resistance to a high degree at the time. That is something that has cross-border effects. That's possible. In addition, the pandemic teaches us how much healthcare is intertwined with the way we deal with borders and trade. Such a pandemic shows how vulnerable we are when the production of certain medicines or devices takes place exclusively outside the European Union. Then it is also logical for you to have a discussion with each other about the distribution of dependencies. Can you return certain production or stocks in the European Union? Those are legitimate discussions. But this is not a black-and-white debate about: the responsibility for health care should go to Europe. That's a much broader discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u223	Thank you. Mr. Knapen wants to interrupt? No, he'll come back to this later. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u224	I would like to touch on a question from Mr Knapen on climate. Climate is one of the very important areas in which Europe is active in the Netherlands too. This problem is particularly cross-border and it is also crucial for competition conditions that we take similar measures. The Netherlands is ambitious in this, so the Dutch commitment is 55% CO2 reduction. There is no unanimity yet between the Member States. Fortunately, it is now the European Commission's commitment. Mr Knapen also rightly points out that all this must be implemented in a world and in the Netherlands with very ordinary people who have to be able to pay for it and who must be able to follow it. I have also read with great interest the accounts, the impact assessments as it is called, which have recently been published by the European Commission and which address the question of where the energy comes from. This provides an interesting overview for both 2030 and 2050. What effect does it have on purchasing power, indeed? How do we keep it affordable? It's crucial. What are the implications for competitiveness? Nationally, a working group led by Mrs Van Geest is in the process of translating this into the Dutch situation. Mr Knapen is absolutely right that, at the same time, we need these measures to counter warming and ensure that it is payable and accessible to ordinary people. That is a huge task. Mr Koole asked how we deal with the objectives. I indicated that the Netherlands is pleased that the Commission has also accepted the 55% target and that there is no unanimity in the European Council. Then I come to the conference on the future of Europe. Mr Van Ballekom and others asked. There is a mandate from the European Council for the conference and now we are back in the negotiating phase, the trialogue phase between the Council, the European Parliament and the European Commission. Again, I can't predict the results. The Dutch commitment has always been, and this brings me back to the question of how we maintain that important understanding and support for Europe, in order to make this conference about how the European Union actually delivers the things that people in the Netherlands and elsewhere consider important. Those are the subjects. How do we ensure a solid economy? How do we keep our jobs? How do we ensure our safety? How do we tackle the climate crisis together? How do we tackle migration together? We will have to deal with important issues and we are not enthusiastic about, as it is called, institutional discussions on whether the Treaty should be amended or that powers should be changed. The chance that this will produce concrete results is very small, while there is so much concrete work to be done. This brings me to the questions raised by Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mr Vendrik on migration. A package has been presented by the European Commission. Migration is typically a cross-border issue and for the Netherlands one of the spearheads on which the effort is made to reach agreement within Europe on a whole package of measures. It will always have to be a whole package, starting in the countries of origin. Mr Vendrik pointed out that people are in the position of wanting to leave. Instead of economic measures, it is a question of guaranteeing human rights. Addressing trafficking in human beings is another issue, again first in the countries of origin and on the route. A fair and quick selection will have to be made at European borders; a distinction will have to be made between those who rightly call for protection and those who seek a better future, which nobody can blame, but which does not automatically lead to access to Europe. And then there must be a fair distribution of the people who rightly call for protection. In the short term, Mr Broekers will give the Chamber the BNC-fiches, the Dutch appreciation of the proposals that are now before us. There will undoubtedly be firm negotiations after that. Specifically, Mr Vendrik asked about the reports about sending people back by Frontex. On the basis of these reports, I have also seen the images and the reports on them...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I'm going to follow that with great interest, and I'm sure it'll come your way as well. Then the situation in Moria.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u225	Mr Vendrik would like to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u226	I think it makes sense that there's going to be an investigation. That's good. My question was about another point. Who's responsible for Frontex? The Commission says that what may have happened is not its responsibility. That seems extraordinary to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u227	I'll get back to you on that. This is a logical question, but I do not dare to forget what the legal suspension of Frontex is like. I'll let you know. The situation in Moria has been discussed here more often, in many other places. I've already visited the camp before the fire and I've seen people living there in very disturbing conditions. I have also spoken with the aid, partly from the Netherlands. The Netherlands and other European countries have long been providing support to Greece for the reception of refugees. In the end, that is a national responsibility. The Netherlands has also built up a whole system for assessing asylum applications and housing people. The Netherlands is still an important destination, although we are not a border country. For other countries, too, it is a national responsibility, but Greece receives additional support. As a result of the fire in Moria, Mr Broekers promised that we would provide additional support for Greece. This has not led to Mr Vendrik's desire to take over additional people, but one cannot say that the Netherlands did not support Greece before and after the fire. Then I come to the questions about European foreign and security policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u228	On that previous point of Moria: I asked in my contribution why Germany's more generous attitude was not followed here with the proportional inclusion of children from Moria. Can the Minister comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u229	It is ultimately a national consideration whether you want an additional number on top of the refugees or asylum seekers who are already seeking protection in your country. The Netherlands has agreed that we always allow a number of people who have not reported in the Netherlands but are still in camps elsewhere. The balance was finally made not to do an additional number on top of that. A number of countries have made a different assessment and a whole number of countries have made the same assessment. In the end, it is a political balance. I know that Mr Koole had made a different assessment, and so has Mr Vendrik. It's still a political consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u230	Of course, each country makes its own assessment, but I have heard the Minister say on several other points that it is good to build coalitions and not to operate alone. Would it not have been wise, in such a humiliating, very poignant situation with those children in Moria, to align with a number of countries, such as Germany, and not to say that we have to make our own assessment? That's where I'd say, "Try to show the human face."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u231	You are now choosing a country that you would have liked the Netherlands to join, but you could also have mentioned a lot of other countries that have made the same choice as the Netherlands. There are no conscious coalitions, but it's a choice which group you want to belong to. Again, it is still a political consideration. I respect Mr Koole's position, but it is a purely political choice whether you do it, as well as the numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u232	Mr Koole, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u233	Yeah, finally. I find the Minister's last remark a little easy. He says that other countries have made a different choice. The characteristic of coalitions is that you try to take action with like-minded countries. The fact that there are other countries that don't agree with you is quite weedy. But that's the hallmark of a coalition. My question is: why didn't that happen to Germany?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u234	Because there are two kinds of like-mindedness: like-minded with Mr Koole and similar-minded with the cabinet. Both can form a coalition. Mr Vendrik asked me to deal with European security policy. Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mr Backer asked the same question. Moreover, I have just sent the cabinet response to the report of the inspection and previously also from the International Affairs Advisory Council to the Chamber on how to deal with the increasing insecurity in the world and the role that Europe must play in it. In this response, we have made it quite clear that it is logical that Europe, and hence the individual countries, should assume a great responsibility. That has been a wish of the United States for a long time. Mr Vendrik asked about NATO's 2% standard. It wasn't President Trump who brought it up for the first time. I think it was President Kennedy who brought it up for the first time and had all the presidents after him, quite understandablely, said: if you are a member of a club, you also pay the fee. Fortunately, in the coalition agreement, we have been able to free up extra money for defence, but we are not yet on the 2% standard. It is also part of this debate that both the United States indicate that Europe must take its own responsibility, especially in its own region, and that it is a consciousness among European countries. Makes sense. You can't put all your problems on the Americans' plate. All this against the backdrop of the fact that the Netherlands and Europe need NATO and America for the real defence of Europe. The U.S. military has a tremendous power, which means it's never necessary. Because that power is so enormous, the classic "whoever wants peace prepared for war" applies. The knowledge that there is ultimately solidarity with the United States prevents potential threats, especially from the Russians. Anyone who has ever spoken to people from the Baltic States at this time, there are Dutch troops in Lithuania there from first experience can hear what it was like to live in the Soviet Union and how grateful the people are that they are members of NATO, but also how much they are experiencing the threat of a Russian government now and then being willing to extend the territory by force. They see, of course, what is happening in Ukraine and Georgia. So we continue to need NATO, but in it European countries must take great responsibility. In that context, it is therefore also important that the European Union has a number of instruments available. Those steps have been taken before. That is not a European army. That is the possibility of creating a European intervention force when a crisis arises. So far, no use has been made of this, but the possibility is there. Mr Backer specifically asked about the proposal from the AIV opinion for a European Security Council. The government isn't excited about that. However, the proposal in the AIV opinion includes a consultation between a number of countries, other than the Netherlands, to discuss security with each other. What's the I.D. on these meetings? What are you doing with the results of such a security council? The United Nations Security Council, which is, of course, the great example, is, on the basis of the statute of the United Nations, which all Members have endorsed, the bearer of a number of powers. The UN Security Council resolution has binding force. Unfortunately, this is not always put into practice, but it does have binding force. Would a resolution of such a European Security Council, in which the Netherlands would not be present, also have binding force? And for whom? That part raises a lot of questions. That is why we did not support it. For other important parts of both reports, yes. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked about the importance of other international organisations, such as the Council of Europe and the OSCE. That's right. It's crucial. The OSCE has had a Minsk Group for years. Unlike the name suggests, it mediates in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. It has now been re-established. The OSCE is an important organisation, which has also been set up with regard to the situation in Belarus. The Netherlands is very active in this. Both are essential foreign policy instruments of an international order. Mr Knapen asked us how we can ensure that we give schwung to the debate on foreign policy. He also expressed appreciation for the Dutch commitment to majority decision-making in foreign policy areas. There too, we are faced with the uncomfortable situation that is urgently needed. The Netherlands already thought so, especially when imposing sanctions. The long time we have needed to impose sanctions on the Belarusian Government shows how urgently necessary this majority decision-making is still. It remains a very difficult subject. You need unanimity to break unanimity. You will notice that the debate has been given a new impetus, precisely because of this long discussion about Belarus. I also note in the Dutch debate that for that reason parties who were first in doubt are more positive about that. In my political life, I would very much like to see us taking the step towards majority decision-making in foreign policy areas. Unfortunately, we're not there yet. Mr Van Dijk had a very specific question about the holocaust definition of the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance. In the Netherlands, discrimination and, in particular, the call for violence are already punishable. It is therefore not the case that Dutch criminal law or legal practice need a different definition. The definition of the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance is valid in itself. In my view, the underlying idea is whether this should be a new legal definition for the Netherlands and the European Union. Otherwise, I do not think that this question would be appropriate in this debate. In any case, the Netherlands does not necessarily need this. Nor is it my view that this is widely shared in the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u235	It is because of us that you still have the name of Mr Van Dijk. Mr Van Dijk was replaced at the last minute by his colleague, Mr Schalk. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Schalk, if Mr Van Apeldoorn agrees. Mr Schalk is now being addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u236	How could I do that? My apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u237	I can take it, I tell the Minister. I have a question about the IHRA definition. A motion has been accepted in the House of Representatives stating that this definition could also be of interest to the Dutch Government. That is not what I am hearing in the Minister's reply. I would be grateful if we could discuss this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u238	Before the Minister responds, I would point out to him that it is 6 p.m. If the Minister prefers to reply later, he can choose to do so. He can answer now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u239	I will answer this question and the other question on the resolutions. I have already indicated that convictions are already taking place in Dutch legal practice. Unfortunately, that is necessary. The Public Prosecutor's Office can therefore use that definition. It is not the case that it has been given binding legal force. This also does not fit in with the Dutch rule of law. For this debate, I do not see unanimity in the European Union either. Mr Schalk's other question was about the use of resolutions on Israel in the UN, because we do not adopt resolutions on this in the European Union. In the UN, with a whole number of European countries, we are unfortunately not using unanimity among the 27 countries, but we are talking about a whole number of European countries on fewer resolutions, on recognition of the fact that the Temple Mount is a sacred place for several religions, and certainly on the prevention of Israel always being the target of resolutions, while there is just as much reason to appeal to other countries, similar countries. That is not only the commitment of the Netherlands, but fortunately also of a number of other countries, for which we have coalitions. We have also been able to reduce the number of resolutions in recent times. By the way, letters have been sent earlier to the House of Representatives, which also show this. I don't have those letters in my head right now, but they're easy to find. Mr. Chairman. I have two more chapters. If you allow me to answer them after the visit to the House of Representatives, I can fulfil both obligations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u240	I will give Mr Schalk a chance to react.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u241	Thank you. I'd rather take it easy now than rush it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u242	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u243	That's fine. Then we'll start with you later. Mr Van Apeldoorn also had another interruption, so I promise him that he will have the opportunity to do so soon. Minister, how much longer do you think you'll need to complete your first term, starting at 8.45 p.m.? Okay, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u244	My own speaking time will not exceed ten minutes. But, of course, I depend on the questions of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u245	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-7.u246	Then I shall suspend the General European Reviews until 8:45 p.m. At 6:45 p.m., we will resume this sitting and the plenary debate on the draft Temporary Election Law (35590) will take place.
