ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u1	The next item is the debate on the plans presented for the reorganisation of the Tax Administration. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. I would also like to welcome the people in the public gallery and those who are not sitting in the public gallery but who are following this debate. I give the floor to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u2	Mr. Chairman. I have a lot of questions, so I'm gonna start soon. Yesterday was the conversation with the affected parents of the supplementing affair. There's a lot at stake for all these people. They seek justice. What are the lessons of yesterday's meeting and what does the Prime Minister's involvement mean, even for the near future? What is the status of compensation? How many parents do not accept the offer and how does the cabinet deal with it? The Minister is right to pay a great deal of attention to parental access to their files. The Minister has announced an investigation into the files, because the information is not in order. What information are we talking about? What's missing? What is it? Is there a picture of that? What exactly is going to be investigated and what is the assignment? How many parents have applied for access to the file? What will be the time-planning of that? Mr. Chairman. In the actual set, questions were also asked about the government-wide approach to fraud led by the Prime Minister in the period 2013-2015. That is also where the CAF was discussed. Why are the reports kept secret? Why can't they be shared with the Room? The meetings are also prepared by officials. What information is shared by Finance with AZ and SZW in this context? Can there be an insight into this? Will the ADR and Donner have access to this information? Mr. Chairman. The main point for today's debate is the proposed reorganisation. Both taxation and fees are concerned with legality and legal certainty. It is about communication with citizens, about customization and about human size. It is also about a coherent concept of income and adjustments in culture, staff, ICT and information provision. Both are also important reforms for the coming years. My point for today is that taxation and allowances cannot be removed and that it is unwise for continuity and services to try to do so. I do not have a good feeling about the proposals before us for the splitting up of fees and taxation both at the administrative and political level. I'm afraid we're going from reinvigorating controlled to reorganizing out of control. We received an interim opinion from ABDTOPConsult last night. I noticed that the date of that opinion was 15 January, while the letter was sent by the Minister on 11 January. I also noticed that one of the authors of the report is Mr Kerstens, but that this same Mr Kerstens has already been appointed as interim Dg Fees. How is that possible? To what extent is this an independent opinion rather than a content requested by the Minister? I'd like some clarification. Mr. Chairman. There will be four captains on one ship. Which DG and which State Secretary will be responsible for information and ICT? Which dg and which State Secretary are responsible for communication and the Tax Telephone? Which dg and which State Secretary are responsible for the reorganisation of the Tax Administration, along the lines of staff, ICT, steering information and culture? Which State Secretary will be responsible for the revision of the tax and surcharge system? Which Secretary of State are we holding the debate on this? What Secretary of State talks to other departments about the reforms? This is the income of millions of households. In that case, it is not possible to separate payments from the tax system. Why wasn't a Secretary of State elected for the Tax Administration and a Secretary of State for Policy? Then the responsibilities are clear. The overlap is exactly where it belongs: policies and reforms are one, but must be enforceable by the other. Has this choice been made definitively? Is there any way to change it? Is there still a possibility of a review, even if there are discussions with potential executives? Why wasn't the final report from ABDTOPConsult, including the advice from outside? Mr. Chairman. All efforts in recent years have focused on a reorganisation in line, the tightening of the service in terms of staff, ICT, steering information and culture. On top of that, are we going to have a horizontal reorganisation, with services being torn apart? What risks does that entail? Is that a risk assessment? How did the decision-making go? Did the Prime Minister interfere? Have these proposals been discussed in the Ministerial Commission for Implementation under the leadership of the Prime Minister? Or was this only done in a coalition context? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u3	Thank you, Mr. Quick. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP. I hope you're not gonna read all those papers. You have four minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u4	Mr. Chairman. There were tears yesterday in Rijswijk. Of course there are tears. If you are thrown into misery for years and you do not know what you have done, it is not explained to you and you lose the ground under your feet: of course there are tears. Especially if it turns out it wasn't right. Where the government has to protect, this was a government that committed a crime against its own defenseless parents. The Prime Minister also had tears, but his hands were empty. I really don't think I can accept that. Lift the statute of limitations! There are already several parents who have been told that they didn't cheat, but now they can't get their money back because it would be a statute of limitations. Bullshit. You have the power, I say to the Prime Minister, to lift that limitation period. Then you're not gonna hide behind some advisory committee. Just take care of it today! And especially those complicated things, because they are there, I will admit that. Just give the people who report and about which there is no fraud report, but still a lot to be sorted out, an advance. Give them air, so they can organize a children's party for their children, go on vacation or just get a normal haircut. Mr. Chairman. On 15 November the General Administrative Service was asked to give an opinion. It was there in two months. And two days later, the one who wrote that advice was already appointed.......................................................................................................................................................................................... If you can do that that fast, you can do it fast for those parents, too. And I'd like to help. I've already handed over 500 reports from my hotline to the Ministry. What are you doing with that, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance. I've got another 800 here. It's all yours. I can't add them to the meeting because it still contains personal data. They've been in since November 11th. The Ministry can have them, because these people want a solution. In the red folder, Minister of Finance, are people who see their surcharges settled, who have still been paid wages and someone who has to sell his house before 1 March, because he is in trouble because of surcharges. So it's still the most important thing. Then there are the 330 pages of consultancy proza that we received Friday night and last night. Is this it? Is this serious? That's what I'm asking the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister. In 2017, breastlap said to us: listen to the people who do the work. We were promised a personnel monitor. I've never seen it. The Temporary Committee on Integrity Tax Administration screams in every six months' advice they give within the Tax Administration louder and harder: it is not safe within the service. The people who do the work are not heard. They have solutions, they see problems, but they are not seen. Yeah, well, that General Administration has spoken to location directors again and to the top again. But not with the people who it's about. Go talk to those people on the tax phone, to those tax inspectors, to those tax bailiffs who have to make the recovery. They know where the leak is and they know what the solution is. No more consultancy proza. They all say to me: carry it out. Put down eight DGs and ten Secretary of State. If you do this, they'll all be gone in a year and the leak won't be upstairs. For 12 years, we've seen the consultants walk in and run away, we see top executives come and go, we see Secretary of State die, but it's not the solution. Listen to the people who do it. Mr. Chairman. And one more thing. Today, one of the people who got justice this summer that she was not a fraud and that she would get her file, received a message. You remember the importance of these files on this subject. I started that hotline. Today she received a delicious e-mail from the national attorney that the appeal will be continued. We're putting together files for these parents, but the state attorney's gonna sue us all for a while. I do not see any new policy. Can the Minister explain this to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. Will you take those folders with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u6	No, they have to go to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u7	Okay, then I'll ask the messenger to hand them over to the minister. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister spoke with parents yesterday and took ample time to do so. The PvdA Group appreciates that. Good thing they did. I'd like to add that nobility is mandatory. Yesterday, of course, no solution was offered to the parents; I don't think they expected that either. There is a listening ear, but that means that parents must be given clarity and justice as soon as possible. But we hear that there are still coercive claims, that wage settlements are being made. The Minister of Finance's first act was to send a letter stating that it could take up to a year before parents become clear. I don't think that's enough. I ask the Minister to clarify and make greater efforts to resolve these matters more quickly. If it gets such a clear recognition that it is such a big mistake, then those parents deserve clarification faster and should not be in uncertainty for another year. Mr. Chairman. A second point that is likely to get very snowy is the ICT problems in the Tax Administration. Two, three years ago, we talked about that pretty much every week. The Minister also remembers the bleeder with the inheritance tax. But we haven't talked about this in a long time. The letters I see today hardly go into them either, while good ICT provision is also crucial for the functioning of the Tax Administration. What place did this topic get in the announced reorganisation of the Tax Administration? Is ICT getting better? Or have the former Secretary of State and the Minister been so busy with this case that the whole ICT is still hanging together? To be honest, I'm afraid that's what I'm afraid of. I fear that it will be years before this is in order and that we will be able to see another bledder coming at some point. Mr. Chairman. My third and final point is the proposed reorganisation of the Tax Administration. My first question is: why did it have to be so fast? The reorganisation is announced within a few weeks. Isn't the risk that it's hasty? How do the new Secretary of State relate to this announced reorganisation? What's their role in this? I can only imagine that a Secretary of State, when he comes, would like to see for himself what is going on and have ideas about how to do better. However, with this decision, the Minister puts a mortgage on the establishment of the Tax Administration and the Ministry of Finance. Does a new Secretary of State have to reverse this if, for example, he prefers to merge certain parts or to separate policies and implementation? You can have whole lectures on that. I've also looked at all these consultancy reports, fortunately I haven't read them all from A to Z, but at least I've looked at them and there are a lot of variants possible. Of course, there is now quite a certain direction. Why did the Minister decide to do that? What does this mean for the responsibility that he himself has as the final manager in the department? 'Cause he has equestrian recognition, in the letter of the Chamber and in Nieuwsuur. What does this mean for his position and for his responsibility in the near future? Is there gonna be a new secretary of state and can we come back to that? Or does the Minister also feel personally responsible for getting things back in order? And more practically, are you also going to sit with the Chamber in the forthcoming debates on the Tax Administration, if hopefully the functioning of the Tax Administration has improved? Or should we do it with the Secretary of State? Given the responsibility of the Minister with this decision-making, I would choose to remain involved, given the great importance and the importance that the cabinet gave to this again yesterday in the conversation with the parents. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u9	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u10	Mr. Chairman. The Minister is getting off to a speedy start to take steps before the new Secretary of State starts their work. The problems at the IRS are enormous. When I started asking Chamber questions two and a half years ago, we thought it was 135 parents at CAF 11. Meanwhile, we know that this is not only about CAF 11, but also about 170 other CAF-related issues and probably a lot of things outside of CAF. The government proposes to divide the Tax Administration into three Directorates-General. We think it would be wise to split up customs. That was already proposed in 2017. But the IRS is more than just an ordinary service. Parents couldn't live up to their rights. Something was found at checks, but they had nowhere to go. There was no legal protection. Tax Authority/Applications is therefore not a company where the profit consists of amounts repaid. It's about justice and ethics within that service. You don't report that in a table or with management summaries. That's right, we got 400 pages yesterday. This also makes this something other than just outsource the recovery or the bailiff's line, which fortunately is not decided on either, because this is also a public task, and that is very important. Mr. Chairman. That is why I have a number of questions about splitting up the service. They follow on from the questions of GroenLinks. It is good that customs is split up. But how do you make that split? Where are you putting the Tax Phone? Does it belong to Supplements or does it belong to Taxes? Where do you put ICT development? Where do you put the recovery? There's all kinds of things coming together. If you have to pay back supplements, it is perfectly normal that you do not get a provisional refund of the tax, otherwise you become more in debt. So there are very big intertwinings there. So how's that? And within what period of time do the rulers think this should take place? Can we have a risk analysis of that? And can the Minister and the new Secretary of State draw up a plan for that division? Because this is a very complicated job. When will the follow-up investigations of the Donner Committee and the ADR come to the Chamber? When will the Chamber receive the timeline of what happened, in accordance with the motion adopted? How did these CAF decisions come about? Who made those decisions? And when did the Secretary of State, the ministers and top officials know about this? That is important, because last night's answers show that the Secretary of State was informed by that Ombudsman in 2016 or 2017 that something was very wrong. Can we see that document in which we've been informed, please? That wasn't in that nice flowchart. So I want the underlying documents and the underlying timeline.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u11	I've also seen Mr. Snels standing at the interrupting microphone, Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u12	And he waited modestly, Mr. Chairman. Mr Omtzigt and I agree that there should be a separate Directorate-General for Customs. It's easy to imagine, and it's easy to unbreak. Can I interpret Mr Omtzigt's critical questions about the other two Directorates-General which have now been proposed in such a way that Mr Omtzigt also thinks that at the end of the debate there should be some flexibility to look at them differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u13	Of course. And some of the colleagues here thought it strange that I said that I would have liked to have this debate with the Minister and the two new Secretary of State. But I really meant that because I think it makes sense to ask a little more questions about the new institution. Getting all the documents a day in advance is a bit tight, but I also meant it because these people are going to take on a responsibility and perhaps find very sensible things about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u14	Does that mean that the way in which these Directorates-General were proposed in the Minister's letter is not a final choice for Mr Omtzigt, but a choice pending further discussion, or for example a risk analysis, a second opinion or a discussion with State Secretary? Surely that would show that it is better to shape it in a different way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u15	Those three dgs are the least of the problems. The IRS employs almost 30,000 people. I think it makes sense to make more instead of just one Directorate-General. Most Directorates in The Hague have 1,000 to 2,000 officials. At three Directorates for the Tax Administration, you have about 10,000 officials per Directorate. Those aren't small columns. And we have seen in the past that the DG Tax Administration had quite a span of control. So it's not about what's up there. I do not want to interfere with that personally either. I'm more interested in whether you cut the whole column loose and make some sort of quirky, or whether the columns remain integrated. That's where the big questions are for me. If the question is whether we are going to reverse this appointment, or whether we are going to appoint top officials here at all as Chambers, then the answer is "no."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u16	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u17	Mr. Chairman. Already in March, during the first plenary debate on the CAF cases, the Chamber adopted a motion from me asking for an investigation into the legal protection of citizens in the Tax Office. Legally everything is well arranged, but these parents who objected did not get a result after six weeks, but only after years. The law was broken all the time and the parents couldn't move. I agree with Mr Leijten's questions as to how it is still being challenged. The motion was clear: within two months there must be a plan. But we've been ten months, and that plan isn't there yet. When can we expect that plan? Only an improvement in the tax telephone will not improve the position of the citizen in the way we want. To what extent are staff counsellors anything other than the Integrity Committee? And for seven years, no whistleblower has applied for whistleblower status at the IRS. That's gotta be a sign. Would the government like to discuss with the or and the workers how to ensure that they have confidence and go to that person to report possible criminal offences? I agree with questions about files and statute of limitations. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the ministers for attending yesterday's meeting. They've experienced what it's like. I'd been here two years trying to send people there. After I spoke to them two years ago, I can tell you that it was frustrating for me that it took us two years to reach this point. What have the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance learned from this? The Prime Minister spoke of a matter of honor, a matter he will not let go of. That's a promise, a debt of honor to the parents. How can these parents and the Chamber hold him to that? The Prime Minister also presided over the Ministerial Committee on the fight against fraud. In the Chambers on this matter, it says twice that it was about CAF cases. Now we read in the documents themselves that in the fourteen meetings there was never any mention of CAF. So what was that about? Could you explain that a little bit more? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u18	Thank you. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u19	A "rather matter," that sounds nice from the Prime Minister's mouth. In my opinion, Mr Omtzigt and I feel that it is a matter of honour to get this resolved. That is why I would like to return to what he said very quickly: I agree with Mrs Leijten's comments on the limitation period. 'Cause that still hangs. These two ministers, the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, who are actually the most important ones in the cabinet, are the chief boss and the one who goes about the pennies, say: we are waiting for an independent committee. He's not so independent. Can we do business today and say that this limitation period is simply going to go off?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u20	I want the limitation period to be explicitly taken into account in the opinions that are to come, and I want a position from the government whether or not the limitation period is set. I've seen too many cases now. I must say that I have also seen too many cases of files that the IRS cannot deliver. I think that is very serious, because a tax administration must be bureaucratic; it is a stupid word, but it must be bureaucratic and there must be archives. How come there's an incomplete archive? Call the state archivist, I'll tell the government, and ask for advice. How is it that all these people come to us and say: I have here proof that I have sent registered documents, but those documents are not in my file? Those people really didn't send empty envelopes to the IRS. I'm sure of that. There may be a document missing, but there's nothing in it. That's what I'd like to know. That is why I also want the opinion on limitation periods. Mrs Leijten now gives me the opportunity; I was a bit quick, because the President was quite reasonable with my speaking time. I believe that the committees should look not only at CAF, but also outside CAF. So when we get advice at the beginning of February, I don't want to be surprised with: we're going to look outside CAF and we're going to wait months again. I would therefore like to know the consequences of limitation periods and how the government wishes to deal with them. If there's any obvious abuses, I hope it doesn't get stuck on statute of limitations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u21	Mr Omtzigt will not fail to point out to me that I would like to ask him a little more clearly...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u22	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u23	... because this was a long answer. I am also concerned that he is now talking about the Donner Committee's opinion coming at the beginning of February, because my last information was that it would come next week. If that's delayed again, that's another blow to the face. I'd like to go back to the statute of limitations. We know that parents can lift the statute of limitations when they go to court individually and the IRS doesn't object. But we're not gonna send 10,000 parents to court, are we? Then we just say, "Dear Tax Administration, if people come forward with the claim that they have wrongly repaid and can prove that they were entitled, then statute of limitations does not matter." We can just say that, can't we? We don't need Donner for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u24	I fear that these can be very few people, because Mrs Leijten is now saying that these people can prove it. It is precisely the absence of pieces that is going to place us in very great dilemmas. That is why I ask the government to explicitly state that statute of limitations will not be a bottleneck in the correcting of certain wrongdoings. I am really asking the government to do this as a commitment. They can tell us after that. The reason I am making the comment about the ADR and the Tax Administration is that there are people who called the Tax Phone yesterday or the day before yesterday, and that they were informed that there is currently no clear deadline on those two reports. That's why I asked the question. Are they coming later? Because they were originally promised in December. Or are they coming now, in January, or are they coming on time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u25	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u26	The IRS said that people were frauds, took them away, recovered them, chased them for years. If the Tax Office has no proof of this and Mr Omtzigt just said: there are no files, there are no records and those parents can simply show that there is a contract with child care, then it is settled. Then there should be no statute of limitations. There are a lot of parents who can just prove that. They should not have to wait long for committees or for politically organized responsibility. They need to know today: if I report to the Tax Office, then statute of limitations does not matter. I'd love to hear a yes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u27	I am counting on the government not to impose limitation periods as a blockade, but I am very careful to say that we have made it clear to all those who report immediately what has happened. That is the caution I exercise. But I fully share the impatience of a number of colleagues about the reports on the reorganisation that were completed within a month and a half, while it took two and a half years for any research to begin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u28	The other side of the limitation period is that the recovery of the overpaid surcharges can actually be infinite. Would it also be wise for us to include in the AWR that this is a maximum of five years, as usual?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u29	I don't know how many years it's been for right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u30	In my opinion, unlimited. There's no final deadline. So you can still recover that money after ten years. That's very annoying for parents, for legal reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u31	That sounds weird, but I'd like to take a look at that with you. In tax law, twelve years is the maximum period within which you can recover in the event of fraud or the like. By mistake, the time limit is shorter. I wonder how the government looks at that. I have no signs of recovery after more than five years. Nowhere. So I'd look into it, but I've come across hundreds of things. I have the same amount of files as Mrs Leijten. I'm gonna make an attempt to forward them. That's quite a challenge with the Kamermail today. But I haven't seen this one in between. So I'll take a look at it, but it's not at the top of my list of things we need to put right here. What is at the top of my list is that list of about 22 bottlenecks that were already known to the Tax Administration/Applications. I mention the example where people say that people are single parents, because the partner lives abroad. They always have to pay back. But there is no box where they cannot properly apply for the child-related budget. There are problems like that when you get married in November, you have to pay back the January care allowance. There were 22 cases like that. Is the government prepared to go through these 22 cases with a plan and see if we need to change some regulations?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u32	The Tax Administration is perhaps the most important or one of the most important executives of the government. Mr Omtzigt rightly said that it is not just about whether you put three DGs above it or not, but that it is mainly about what that means for the organisation. In the documents I read with great certainty that there will be three DG's, but every question what that means for the organisation is answered with: these three DG's will have to talk about it. Does Mr Omtzig agree with me that this must be clarified in advance? I do not know, for example, who is responsible for ICT at the Tax Office today, at the top of the tax administration's official summit. Does Mr. Omtzig share my concern?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u33	I share the concern. I also share the concerns about the departed Director FEZ. That, by the way, is something that has long been known. Or...? Well, then I misread it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u34	The DG Tax Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u35	The DG Tax Affairs. Sorry, that's the one I meant. We also studied at the same university. I was thinking, did I really misunderstand something? A number of top officials have left. Some of them had been planned a long time ago. That was the case with this one. So it seems logical to me that these places should be refilled, because those responsibilities need to be invested. It also seems logical to me that there should be a DG Customs, and there is really no doubt as to what it is about. Between the two Dg's Tax Administration and Fees and the State Secretary's Tax Administration and Fees, there are the problems of coordination. That is exactly what I expect an answer from the government. Besides, I don't expect the DGs to decide that between themselves. I expect the political leadership, which is the Minister and the Secretary of State, to come up with a plan for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u36	What I actually expect is that when we announce that we are going to do this, we have already thought about it in the front. I've asked questions about that. I'm sure you and a lot of your colleagues are, too. I think the answer is yes, the three DGs have to make a plan. But we cannot have it that in the next few weeks it is unclear who controls which part of the Tax Office, precisely because the report that is before us warns that too fast unbundling can lead to chaos and lack of service for people. I really think that if we take this step, we need to know what we're getting into and that we don't walk into a grey area for months, because then we'll get more chunks and they'll be that I'm really big enough with Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u37	That's right, but that's why I really made a distinction between the DG Customs, what for me... That advice of Joustra and eh... has been there since 2017: unpainted that. Customs are quite separate from the rest. The core is only between two functions. That's the DG Tax Department and the DG Charges. If I may paraphrase Mr Van Weyenberg, I would like to have an idea who, at the time that second is appointed, will be responsible for ICT from tomorrow and who is responsible for the Tax Telephone, so that as well as the officials... because we may sometimes forget that this also causes a lot of uncertainty among the officials who work hard there at the Tax Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u38	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. I now give the floor to Mr Edgar Mulder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u39	We are now going to appoint two D66 Secretary of State. That is a great idea, because the previous one did so well and so good! Whether we appoint two or six State Secretarys, it won't solve anything, but it won't solve anything if we don't get some things sorted out first. Firstly, there must be a full restoration of the parents who have been unjustly criminalised. That also means a generous compensation for all the damage suffered. Get your Donner II report out of here! Secondly, there must be a major clean-up within the IRS. Anyone who has deliberately broken laws must get out or, to stay in the jargon of the CAF team itself: out with pitch and feathers; out, regardless of rank and stand! That is really necessary to start restoring the confidence of the Netherlands in the government. Because this is the Netherlands! We're here, damn it, not in Africa. Mr. Chairman. Only after this has happened will it make sense to make a fresh start with the Tax Administration. So we must also talk about the number of appointments and the political colour. That seems to be difficult in this coalition. Mr Omtzigt is very good at asking questions, but he does not want to bear any responsibility, at least if he has already been asked. So it should be two people from D66. And at D66 there seems to be a lot of experience with hard drugs but not with reorganising, so it all takes a very long time. Mr Snel resigned on 18 December. We have been more than a month now and there is still no known who is going to take over the baton. There is now the danger, because D66 apparently has no interest in forming the service itself. They're about the laws, the tax rules, not the organization, not the Tax Administration itself. That is why Mr Snel, a real technocrat with a great deal of feeling at his official summit, went wrong, but not with the parents, with a great deal of feeling at his director-general, but not with the people in the country, the people who are involved. Mr. Chairman. If a look of D66's will be pulled open with the same attitude again, the nose in the air and convinced of its own truth, then it will go wrong again. So it has to be different with a new Secretary of State. Does the Minister agree? Are you really going to go through with this so that there will finally be another Tax Service that works for the citizens? And Minister, what are you going to do with the top of that service? Why is there a gold safety net called the General Administration Service? Because whatever you do as a top official, you always get a nice job with a matching top salary back. I'd like to close with a question. Minister, when we talk in the House of Representatives about a reorganisation, will we simply apply the rules that apply to every normal Dutchman? So if you've committed criminal acts, just dismissal and prosecution? And if you've messed up, you're gonna get fired and you're gonna find yourself a new employer? So, Minister, the question is whether officials in The Hague are subject to the same rules as the rest of the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u40	Thank you, Mr. Mulder. I now give the floor to Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u41	Mr. Chairman. For us, there is perhaps the most important task for the coming years: to regain what was once the best tax administration in the world and to regain the rightly lost trust of parents and indeed all Dutch people. We read that the Prime Minister and the Minister had a conversation with the parents last night. I appreciate the time they have taken for this. I'd like to ask both of you to reflect on the conversation and perhaps more questions have been asked to see what we're learning from this now. But I'll be honest. It is not yet clear to me whether we have now found Columbus' egg with the proposed reorganisation. That question is still unanswered for me. Can the Minister explain why he thinks that more chefs in the kitchen will make the court better? What will this reorganisation do for the Tax Administration? Because less than six months ago, the Secretary of State asked for a "policy vacation." Can this service handle the reorganisation with unknown destination? How do we prevent the most important services for residents, such as tax collection and the provision of surcharges, from being at risk? I would like to ask the Minister to share a plan of action with the Chamber, in which the Chamber gets insight into the desired final picture, the timeline when what steps will become? A cost statement and, last but not least, an execution test as to whether the Tax Administration can actually handle this. Mr. Chairman. In addition, my group has questions about parts of the service, which will be needed for both parts of the service. For example, what will be the position of the Tax Phone? Or how is ICT handled? How do we prevent two tax authorities, two State Secretarys from double-doing everything? Mr. Chairman. The Minister of Finance has launched a major reorganisation of the Tax Administration. I'm happy for the parents to see that there's no sitting around while we're waiting for the new Secretary of State. But my group does not want this to be a political hit-and-run. How does the Minister remain involved in this process that he himself started? I assume that the Minister himself wants to do so and will not leave the hedge with his secretaries of state later on. My question is also prompted by the fact that we are now faced with a huge task, one that has mainly been on the side of the Secretary of State in recent years. Will the Minister be more involved in this reorganisation in the years to come than in recent years? An organization with the size of the Tax Administration cannot be unravelled in a few weeks, not even with two State Secretarys. As far as the VVD Group is concerned, the reorganisation of the Tax Administration has a top priority at the Ministry of Finance. Mr. Chairman. Over the past year, this Chamber has been critical of the need for cultural change within the service. I want to know from the Minister how cultural change keeps a place within this reorganisation. You can reorganise what you want, but if top officials with the wrong institution do their job, a reorganisation will not achieve the desired result. I also refer to the widely supported request to the cabinet to investigate the functioning of the ABD. Can the Minister promise that this investigation will be sent to the Chamber before the summer? This supplement system is at the end of his Latin. As far as the VVD is concerned, not only words, but also actions must follow. There will be a number of studies. That's nice, but what's the minister gonna do? Can he promise that he will already find ways to replace or at least adapt the supplement scheme for the next tax plan? Mr. Chairman. The people who are in contact with the service are finished with the surcharges. That concludes with my most important point. If we really want the service to be put in order and if we want to avoid new dramas, then people must be at the centre. You can't do that with surcharges. I would like to know from the Minister how he is going to ensure that the service is back at the service of society and is reliable and involved. How does he ensure that the right information will flow up from now on? How does he regain trust in the service? Because that's the real problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u42	It is huge profit that the VVD has become critical of the General Administrative Service. I have tried to draw attention to this earlier. That was in 2011, 2012, when some failed civil servant got a nice new job. In the meantime, we do not think that this is normal anymore, but I do not think it is normal for you to ask for an opinion on 15 November, for an interim opinion on 15 January and for the person who wrote it to be appointed on 17 January to carry out the same opinion. I'd like to put that to the VVD. I would like to know what Mrs Lodder thinks about that. Isn't that vulnerable?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u43	Mrs Leijten has asked a number of questions about this. I think more colleagues have mentioned this. I'm very curious about the Minister's response. The Minister is responsible for the appointment of people. I would also like to leave that with him, because I think we should avoid discussing staff policy here with each other. But you have asked critical questions, so I am very curious about the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u44	It is also striking that in the KPMG report and in the EY report, there has been even more of that kind of consultancy proza that has been put forward to us in recent days, so that more consultants and more accountants can work in the service and, above all, to do more research, which they can of course carry out themselves. We really need to stop doing that, because I think it is because of that process that the people behind the Tax Phone or in the execution cannot go upstairs. After all, they run into all these wrong consultants. How does Mrs Lodder feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u45	There are a number of major problems that we face. For my group, the most important thing is that we resolve these problems. That's the minister's assignment now. He'll be picking it up with the State Secretary later. We need to work on that. Once again, we are not dealing with personnel policy. I also want to prevent us from discussing this as a Chamber. At the beginning of December, of course, I made the proposal to which you refer. I think that's good. I expect the investigation to come to the Chamber before the summer. Then we can talk about it, but the personnel policy is really up to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u46	Thank you, Mrs Lodders. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u47	Mr. Chairman. A cultural change with the Tax Administration is much needed. The parent applying for a supplement should be treated as a human being. The entrepreneur should not be seen in contact with the Tax Administration as a number. Someone who calls the Tax Phone has to be helped quickly and well. The tax administration should not be seen by our society as a cumbersome and unsatisfying organization, but as a government institution that thinks and cooperates in the interests of the citizen and in the interests of our companies. You'd think this kind of thing would be in order with a government agency. Unfortunately, practice teaches us differently in this case. That's why we're getting a hell of a reorganisation. The service is divided into three parts and we get two secretaries of state. But when we get it, we don't know yet. We've been without Secretary of State for over a month now, while there's a lot of work to be done. As far as I'm concerned, there's some hurry. My specific question is therefore: when can we expect the new Secretary of State? Mr. Chairman. We see a minister making major interventions. But this also really solves the underlying problems, I ask the Minister. And what has he done in recent weeks to actually launch this cultural change in the organisation? Because on paper, the actions sound wonderful at the moment, but what has the official on the floor at the Tax Office already noticed in concrete terms in recent weeks of the Minister's efforts? I would like a clear response to that. Mr. Chairman. I think that we should also get our hands on our own, because the problems in the Tax Administration are not only due to culture. The Chamber has also played a major role in this. In the past, politics wanted a complicated system of surcharges not at once, but over time. We must also honestly say that we have not made it easy for the Tax Administration. Mr. Chairman. The Tax Office is being reorganised. I call on the Minister to look at the evaluations of previous reorganisations and to take them with emphasis. I'm sure there's something to learn from that. I also think it is important to keep an eye on the consequences of the forthcoming reorganisation. My final question to the Minister of Finance is therefore how he evaluates the forthcoming reorganisation and how he keeps us informed. Mr. Chairman. I very much appreciate that the Prime Minister is also present in this debate. I would like to compliment the two rulers who are sitting here, who have also made others, that they entered into the conversation yesterday with the people who have been hit so hard. But the problems at the IRS are not on their own. The implementation of other implementation organisations is also often inadequate. This has been discussed before in other debates. Let me just be a little harsh on it: it did not get any better during the Rutte cabinet. My question is: what is the Prime Minister's view of this? What has he been doing for the past ten years to make that improvement? What have we not seen of what may have happened? I am really concerned about the state of many of those implementing organisations. Everything has been cut in recent years and everything has become more central. This gives the people of the country the feeling that the government is getting further and further away. I would actually like to ask the Prime Minister: is it not time for the government to get closer to the people, including the people? And if so, how does he think that should happen? That's all it wants to do, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u48	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u49	Mr. Chairman. At yesterday's meeting, the Prime Minister appointed the child care allowance affair as one of the greatest tragedies of his period as Prime Minister. This is a fair recognition of the suffering that is probably caused to many thousands of parents, parents in the rush hour of life, but all too often balancing on the edge of "just enough" and "just too much necessary expenditure." Then there is a government demanding thousands of euros a year, pushing these families over the edge to live in red, not only financially, but also psychologically and relationally. It is good that Prime Minister Rutte and Minister Hoekstra met 250 parents yesterday. At the same time, of course, the problems for these and other parents have not been solved. I take it both rulers won't stop at this one time. I agree with Mrs Lodder's words. My appeal to the Prime Minister and Minister Hoekstra is also: stay involved, including in the coming period, and work for a quick and just solution for these parents. I would like to know how both directors are going to implement this. Mr. Chairman. We have an overloaded tax administration, a tax administration that has to keep an overloaded tax and surcharge system in the air. How is this cutting-up strategy going to bring about a solution to the implementation problems? More politicians are usually no solution to problems. Then why is this cut in the cutting strategy actually made between Customs and Fees and Taxation? Why not between policy and implementation? That makes more sense to me. I can still see that the official summit is widening, but I should like to warn against the actual unravelling of blue, red and green, of Taxes, Fees and Customs. There are really big risks to that. In any case, the distinction between collecting and distributing is artificial. In the case of tax collection, too, a lot of money is being distributed on the basis of preliminary attacks. Even more worrying is the entangled and outdated ICT, with almost 900 applications. How are you gonna break that up? Can the Tax Administration deal with the same occupation, too many people for administrative tasks, the fiscalists who took their new camper van to the north sun and the software, hanging by the thread of Fortran and Cobol? I strongly ask the Minister: can the service handle this? And more importantly, does this reorganisation bring a solution and better implementation closer? Isn't "let's reorganise again" too flat and too easy an answer to the current problems? Don't get me wrong, I'm not against it in advance, but I do have great concerns, especially with the ground-up people in mind, about who it should be. I'm talking about the people who were victims of the system. Mr. Chairman. In addition, the people at the Tax Administration themselves are eager for other leadership. Listen to the workplace, listen to what's alive. Management information isn't what you're receiving, it's what you're listening to. The IRS is an organization with a lot of smart people, so you can.. no, you have to organize conflict. This requires, first of all, empathic leadership. It has been lacking, while it is necessary to bring goodwill back to the workplace. Where's the minister gonna magic those empathic leaders from? I am referring to leaders who realise that the tax administration is ultimately not about the proceeds, but about the enforcement of the law, about a healthy legal culture. This requires a soft, human left hand and a severe, enforcement right hand at the same time. Finally, Mr President. While there are major implementation problems to be solved, it is also necessary to work towards a simpler and fairer tax system without surcharges. In the meantime we have been studying for ten years, but so far without much result. I hope that the current implementation crisis will help to bring closer to the reform of the tax system that my group wants, so that we can have a simple system in which we share fairly, contribute fairly and steer fairly. But the biggest obstacle to a tax review seems to be the Tax Administration itself. This one can't handle a tax review. This was already noted by the Court of Auditors in 2014. I'm afraid it won't be much better in 2020. How does the Minister see that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u50	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Finally, we have the debate, you might say, on the point that we are no longer allowed to talk about the policy of the Tax Administration because we need to have a policy slow agenda. That would be the last thing we need right now. We have a debate on the list, but that is not this debate with four minutes' speaking time. Because I've already calculated that those are 125 civil servants per second, or 40 duped per second. And we're not gonna get anywhere with that. We're gonna have to do things differently, too. I am very shocked by a phrase in the report that says that this reorganisation plan fits within the current system. There is no consideration of whether there are subsidies that can replace the surcharges or whether there can be a different approach, which is urgently needed. In our view, the problem was not that there was one Secretary of State at the Tax Office, although we are pleased that there will be two Secretary of State. Martin van Rooijen's prayers have been answered. The Chamber has rejected the motion, but there is now a second Secretary of State. But then it's about what's being done. The question then is whether there will also be policy changes, which will be entrusted to the second Secretary of State, who will ensure proper implementation. Because the execution went wrong. That wasn't just because there was only one secretary of state, but because something went wrong with the Tax Administration, after years of reorganisation, of wrong attention and of hunting people instead of seeing how to achieve a fair distribution of the burden in society through the Tax Administration. That means that there are all kinds of reports. The Court of Auditors has indicated how many people have problems with the surcharges, how the surcharges changed over the years and how a large proportion of people need two years to get rid of their supplement debts. These are potential problems of the people you spoke to yesterday, at least with a small proportion of them. The last Secretary of State said it could probably be 9,000. This means that there is a much larger reservoir of problems. I'd like to see an organizational change come along with an eye for those people. The IRS, with 30,000 people, doesn't suddenly become a whole different service because there are three DGs on top. The hidden hierarchical lines and the things that do not come up from the workplace are not solved with an additional secretary of state or with an extra dg or with three dg's. This means that the working method and culture must change. Those are very tricky things within an organization. The minister could still draw on his former work experience, so how he used to experience the Tax Administration and how he now experiences it. This is also a service that has suffered from the image of "a small government is better than a large government." No, it's about a good government for society. It doesn't matter whether it's small or large; it's about how that government serves society in that context. Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude with another point from my predecessor. He had drawn up a list of what he called "the eight debris." Those weren't his memoirs, but those were the rubble he found in the Tax Administration: tax expenditure got out of hand, building up and phasing out bogus rates, the leveling that by income-dependent tax reductions then leads to forms of unsolicited leveling, and so I can continue. There are a lot of problems in the Tax Administration that are linked to the system we have and to its establishment. This means that particular attention must be paid to this. We must not wait until, in a cabinet formation, someone suddenly has a bright idea that has not been worked out and that ends up in a government agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u52	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, my group also welcomes the fact that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance spoke with many parents yesterday. That was emotional, that was intense, and it was necessary, because they were hurt. Apologies, but above all a solution, are therefore urgently needed. Mr. Chairman. To start with, I am very curious about the project organisation that would be started to deal with the premium affair. What's going on with that, anyway? Is this reorganisation, as far as I am concerned, perhaps the most up-to-date and urgent one now in motion? What's the timeline for the reports? My colleagues have already asked for this. Those of the Audit Service Empire and the Donner Committee were due to arrive in January. In the case of the Donner Committee, this was already a delay in relation to the original timetable. Is that still the plan? I would once again ask when the report of the Dutch Data Protection Authority on whether ethnic profiling has taken place. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the broad reorganisation of the Tax Administration announced by the Minister. He has sent a letter with a lot of actions that fit in with chamber motions and I also think in previous policies, such as more attention to culture and staff council members. But two things are really new. That's an external investigation, again an external investigation into improving the Tax Administration. And furthermore, that is the cutting up of the Customs, Charges and the traditional Tax Administration, in threes with three new DGs. Mr. Chairman. I have asked many written questions about how that is going to take shape. How are we going to do that responsibly? The answer is always that the three DGs come up with a plan. I still find that unsatisfactory. If you set something so big in motion, I think it's important that you have thought in advance about what purpose you're going to achieve and how you're going to shape it properly. Because in the service there is also a lot of resistance to reorganisations, especially in the top with dg's. The FNV has already sent a letter of concern. What is the basis for this? In any case, this is based on an investigation by ABDTOPConsult. Questions have already been asked about this. I read something in the letter advice that scares me. It says: "However, due to the intertwinedness between Supplements and the tax part described, too fast and complete unbundling of Supplements presents major risks to the continuity and service of citizens." And we are precisely looking for an improvement in continuity and the provision of services to citizens. This was already known, at least to the Minister. How is this weighed in the choice to cut the service in three? Why was this form chosen and not, for example, the form with a separate customs office, Mr Omtzigt spoke about it and a Director-General specifically for the resolution of the affair? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, How are we gonna ensure that? I take it there are some good pieces on the front. Are there any notes on that? What are we gonna do? How are we going to ensure that there is not some sort of "Who of the Three"? I think "Who of the Three" is a nice television programme.It's almost before my time.But you don't want to say those three dgs every morning: ICT, who was that again? I think that the fact that this is now being considered is actually vulnerable. I mean, it's got to be re-established, isn't it? 'Cause who's responsible for the Tax Phone today, I'm asking the Minister. Who is responsible for ICT today? Are those responsibilities well invested? We really want to prevent things from falling apart. So why was this form chosen and not another? My second question concerns the role of the Finance Minister himself. Colleagues have already said that he is more involved in this. The minister owns it, too. He was indeed critical of his involvement in the past at Nieuwsuur. How will the Minister ensure it in the future? How is he going to shape his ownership role even more explicitly? I found it interesting to suggest that this should also be reflected in debates in the Chamber. Finally. Together with Mr Bruins, I have tabled a motion on allowances which has been widely accepted in the Chamber. Can't we go without it? There's no other way? I have said before that we can point to officials, but we must look at ourselves as politics above all else. Are we gonna take the system now? How are we gonna organize that? I think it's too little about the clients. In fact, I would like to agree on the starting point that if we talk to the Secretary of State about the surcharges in future, we will also have the executive directors present. They've made the policy. I think we should not underestimate their role. How is it ensured that they too initiate a completely different system? Because that's what parents and all these other people need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u54	Yesterday there was talk with the parents. There were tears, but also empty hands. How much does D66 weigh exactly? Those parents are asking you to drop the statute of limitations and do so faster than a year. How does he feel about two rulers standing there saying, "Sorry, we're not gonna promise anything?"
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u55	Look, on this file, I think there are two things we shouldn't have. The first is tunnel vision. I think we've had it too long, looking at parents. I hope we prevent it when it comes to the organization. The second is that we don't deliver on things we promise. Mrs Leijten doesn't want that, I don't want that. I heard about that year, too, and that's a long time. At the same time, it could potentially be nearly 10,000 parents. So with your question, how fast can it be? Every day faster is a day won. That's why I asked when those reports were coming, because I understand that we need them, but we have to go through with it. So the sooner the better. I think it would be a good idea for the Minister to support what he was based on that year. Your inconvenience, that every day it lasts longer is too long a day, I share, but I am very afraid to promise people something that will not be fulfilled soon. That trust's already gone, and then it's gonna run away even more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u56	That question about where that year came from was asked in Parliamentary questions. Unfortunately, there is no answer for this debate, but I'm sure that will come soon, perhaps in this debate. But when it comes to the limitation period, there are therefore several parents who have already had a conversation, in which they have been told: you are not a fraud; in one year we may be able to do another review; for other years it is a statute of limitations, but if you go to court, you can ask for that to be lifted, then we as the Tax Office will not object and you can still request it and you will get the money back. But if all those 10,000 parents have to do it themselves, isn't that weird? Because we know that it can, it only requires a judicial procedure, we could still take the political decision of: 'Dear Tax Office', if people come forward and it's about years longer than five years ago, then that statute of limitations is not going to play and are we just going to review it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u57	I thought Mr Omtzigt gave a good answer to that, and now Mrs Leijten is actually asking the same question: that you do not want the limitation period to become a decisive obstacle in the future. You're making a concrete suggestion. I find that interesting. I can't completely oversee it, so I'm really curious about the Minister's response. If we can make things easier in a responsible way, I'm always very open to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u58	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u59	In the first debate after the Secretary of State had resigned, or the second debate first there was a VAO state participation, then it was the Navy Note.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Then he asked for a few weeks to find out. Does Mr Van Weyenberg agree that he should not be hiding behind the Donner Committee's opinion, because he could have figured it out himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u60	I'll leave the Minister's state of mind to himself. But I think you have rightly asked a question on this and I am curious to hear the answer in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u61	Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Weyenberg asked critical questions about the reorganisation and referred to the ABDTOPConsult interim report or letter report. There is not only doubt about the intertwinedness and complexity and continuity. It also says in my own words: 'wait a moment for the reform of the system that is about to come'. Does Mr Van Weyenberg agree with me that this division of fees and taxes should be reconsidered?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u63	Like I said, you always have to watch for tunnel vision. In the past, this dossier has been characterised too much by it. Look, I've been asking a lot of questions about what this is going to mean in practice in the Tax Office; three dgs or not, the people on the workplace, are we going to split everything up or not? And the warnings in this letter opinion are firm. That's why I'm asking. I think it is wise that we did not choose a cut between implementation and policy further down the road. That was also always a critical point in the selection of colleague Van Rooijen. But you could have chosen other forms. I have said, for example, that it is only a separate project club that has to deal with the payment affair. I would like to hear from the Minister exactly why he chose this form, and how far unbundling goes. Because we don't want any accidents in that unbundling. So if that is Mr Snels' question, then I agree with him. See very well that this really gets us something, and define it precisely, so that in the service it is very clear who is going about what, and that we are not only reorganising endlessly while the service comes under pressure, because then we are out of the rain in the drip.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u64	But the Minister's letter says, "I've already decided that it's being untangled." The Minister has already made the choice, there is unravelling. We agree on Customs, but Fees and Taxes are being unravelled. How does Mr Van Weyenberg feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u65	The minister finally owns it. In fact, I asked for this commitment to be strengthened in the future. This is up to the Minister. That is why I said: you are a minister, you have made a proposal, why this proposal and how far does it go? You can do the three dgs, but what happens at the bottom of the shift? There should be no misunderstanding about who is involved in ICT or the Tax Phone. I look forward to those answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u66	In my opinion, we have seen about fifteen times in the actual answers that the DGs are being referred to, such as: the three DGs are going to figure that out. What does that mean for Mr Van Weyenberg? Does he want an answer to all his concerns about the reorganisation of the Tax Administration, including risk analysis, a second opinion and an execution test as proposed by the VVD, before the two State Secretarys are appointed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u67	Apart from these good suggestions, I would like to begin by hearing in this debate what is the precise basis for choosing this model, what is expected of it and how we will ensure that the risks identified do not occur. For example, I want to know exactly who is responsible for the Tax Phone today and next week. It can't be that every morning we have to play the game Who of the Three and we have to see who's going about problem X, Y or Z. You don't have to do this during the ride, but you have to take care of this before you start. That was my suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u68	Quite a lot of criticism of the reorganisation proposals of the minister and the coalition. I myself have the concern that it is too hasty but I hear that also widely in the Chamber. I have a question about political direction. D66 likes transparency very much. We read a lot in the paper, but I would also like to hear it in the debate. Was it D66's commitment to position two D66 Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u69	First, as far as I am concerned, there has been a great deal of thought about what is needed to do these jobs in the Taxation, in the Fees and in the case of the child care allowance. That was the lead. There came from a choice for two secretaries of state. You could have done that differently. And the fact that they were two D66 Secretary of State wasn't the target in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u70	That makes me curious because that's the outcome after all. So I am curious about what D66 said was the best solution at political level and why.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u71	The most important thing was that there was a good look that people came and that you could do in all kinds of forms that could pick up these big problems and very big jobs. We were open to the idea of being two State Secretarys and whether that should be two State Secretarys of D66 House. That was the outcome, but we were very open.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u72	It wasn't the target, but it's the outcome. So the target was probably something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u73	No, I said it wasn't the target in advance and we were open in it. The crux was: what good is it to make sure that this supplementing affair can be resolved, to ensure that we proceed with the reform of the tax system? For that there are many forms and it was an open conversation, from which those two secretaries of state emerged. Your question was whether there had to be two of D66. It was not something that we walked in there and said: that must be two of D66. That's what we were gonna talk about. You do that in a coalition; so does Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u74	Sure, but I also prefer it to be pronounced in the Chamber. I've asked questions about it, too. There has been a consultation with the group chairmen and this is the outcome, but there is talk about how things have been. I would also like that to be mentioned in this Chamber debate because it is relevant, including who is politically responsible for the allowances and who is responsible in the Chamber and where the parties are involved. I can imagine if you say: we have the best women/men and they can do it well in terms of implementation. And that's what you're getting into, but I don't think we know who the Secretary of State will be. Then it is a political question: do you share that as a coalition or is D66 entitled to two State Secretarys and how did that go? I think that is a very legitimate question. Mr Van Weyenberg said that it was not our aim. But it's the outcome, and I'm asking what's in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u75	And I said it wasn't our goal in the sense that we walked in there thinking that it should be two D66 Secretary of State. We were open in that. I also think that this is the right form, because the problems are very big, as is the task. We have looked at what is needed in terms of content. Those who fit, that's the second step. That's the question now. That was the discussion that took place with the group chairmen, the reformer, although I should not formally say so anymore, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u76	A comment by Mr Van Weyenberg made me curious. He talked about reforming the tax system and resolving the surcharges. By the way, was it thought that one secretary of state who would do both things, or should it be separated? Mr Van Weyenberg also said that he would rather not have a Secretary of State dealing with the policy and one Secretary of State for implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u77	We've looked into what needs to be done. There's a need for extra attention. It could also be done in a different way, but the conclusion is: no, we do it by two additional secretaries of state. According to my group, but I believe that this is widely shared, it was wise not to cut between policy and implementation, because then it becomes very complicated. I always had this concern with the very heartfelt suggestions made by my colleague Martin van Rooijen. As Secretary of State, he also has all kinds of footsteps in the Tax Administration. That was the approach: what does it take to pick up these big jobs? Then the result is: two State Secretarys, with another division, not along the line policy and implementation, but along the line: surcharges, customs, taxation and the FIOD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u78	Mr Van Rooijen was, by the way, the only secretary of state at the time at Finance. However, my question to Mr Van Weyenberg was whether those who were there on behalf of D66 and the other parties thought that the commitment of two State Secretarys would be sufficient in itself to solve the problems. Or has it also been considered: should one Secretary of State focus on tax reform and the other on implementation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u79	Perhaps I do not understand the question, but the thought was that extra political attention was needed for this, also in order to tackle these big and heavy tasks. You could do that in different ways, but the outcome is two additional secretaries of state. However, I would like to stress that, when it comes to the increases, we really need to look at the policy. See the motion by Mr Bruins and myself, supported by the entire Chamber. And let us not forget that we have already discussed the role of the Minister as the owner of the taxes, which are the huge role of the leaders of Health, Welfare and Sport, Social Affairs and Home Affairs when it comes to living and the rent allowance. We will have to question that system as a matter of principle. The policy is made by those three when it comes to the surcharges. As far as I am concerned, we also talk much more often in the Chamber, not only with a Secretary of State for Finance, which deals with supplements, but also with the government ministries. As a politician, we often have to start at the core, and that is looking at how enforceable laws are and how we have shaped them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u80	I also argued that it should be broader. We have the care allowance because we want a nominal premium in the context of competition between insurers that must be high enough, which means that we have to compensate half of the Netherlands. We have the rent allowance because there is such a level of rent that it is not payable for a number of people. We've got the daycare center. We do not subsidise them, because we think that we should play it over the band of individual users. I fully agree with Mr Van Weyenberg's story that this also belongs to colleagues from other ministries. I wonder if it's the performer or the policy maker. Or doesn't it matter, considering the two secretaries of state?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u81	It is mainly those three rulers in those departments where the laws come from. I think we should do more with that. We all want to change this. We also know that bonuses are an indispensable part of income for many people. So you have to think of something else to make sure people don't fall financially through the ice. That's really complicated. My only argument is: don't just look at Finance and the Secretary of State. Don't just look at the Treasury and the Tax Office. Also look and maybe start with the client. We in the Chamber also have a role to play in this, because we have made it very complicated, with a lot of regulations. That must be called into question. The three rulers are also on the move.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u82	One final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u83	Yes, but there is a report that says that the current structure has not looked at a change in the tax system and that everything is done within the current tax system. It's got a stomachache.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u84	I have a stomachache that we have a system that I think many of us would rather change today than tomorrow. We know it's gonna be a trajectory that's probably gonna take a long time. In the meantime, you have to make sure that what we have now can just function better. But I fully agree with Mr Van Otterloo: we have a very fundamental debate to have, not only with the Secretary of State, but above all with the other three rulers, on another system. What do we do about child care? How do we deal with the rent and care allowance? We need to have that discussion. I fully agree with you that this is very important. But not instead of, but in addition to the steps that are now being taken to make the service function better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u85	The report of the General Administrative Service contains seven recommendations. Recommendation 5 states that we need to see which processes and parts of the service can be outsourced to market players. How does D66 feel about that? Privateizing parts of the Tax Administration: Is that what we're waiting for?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u86	I haven't seen any proposals for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u87	It's also very crooked. Then it says that certain parts are not susceptible to outsourcing at all because they are too critical. But it is said that this needs to be looked at. Outsourcing of certain processes and parts: we should not give the signal during this debate that we embrace it and that we continue on the old road, leaving it all to the market? We should at least give that to these two rulers today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u88	I have the vague suspicion that I have just given Mrs Leijten the opportunity to raise a point from her own input in the form of a question. I'm sure the Minister will answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u89	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u90	Mr. Chairman. A special debate: years of indescribable suffering, done to parents by the Tax Administration, and at the same time one of the biggest changes for the coming years. And that in about four minutes, after we got about 300 pages through the app the night before. But we're gonna take a shot anyway. The IRS is a special service. From the government's flagship to a kind of Bermuda Triangle, where ambitions, careers and good intentions disappear effortlessly. It's possible. In the absence of a Secretary of State, the Minister has taken the lead on this dossier. My compliments for his speed and commitment, but he has also squeezed that momentum when he gets away again. I'd like him to stay involved a little longer. I would also like to know when the final report from the Donner Committee is finally coming. When will the ADR report come? When will the report on ethnic profiling of the Dutch Data Protection Authority come? Yesterday we saw Mark Rutte present at the conversations with parents. He took away a tear when he heard so much suffering. With these parents the tears had been exhausted for years, out of despair and frustration about the injustice that has been done to them. These parents, who were brutally ruined by officials by breaking the law, were pleased that the minister was there. Better very, very, very late than never. The Prime Minister also called it a great tragedy, one of the biggest in his career. But where was this Rutte in 2017, when the Ombudsman destructively ruled on the way in which Supplements were working? Where was Prime Minister Rutte when these parents have been begging for help over the past few years, seeing no way out, getting depressed and seeing their relationship end? And where was Rutte then time and again that his secretary of state was not in order and was sent into the woods by the officials? Anyway, you shouldn't look a gift horse in the mouth, especially when it comes from Rutte. Let's move on to this reorganisation. As far as I'm concerned, this is a new phenomenon within the government: a flash-reorganisation. The intention was already on the list on 4 December because we had the debate on this at the time, but as far as I am concerned it was mainly about the suffering caused to parents. Mr. Chairman. I am hesitant and also very critical of the proposed changes. I am not so much concerned with customs matters as I can understand it, but I am very hesitant about speed. I do not really see the justification for what is said, namely that the span of control should be reduced and that more focus, dedicated management and attention should be given. My nightmare is a crazy tax agency that's being subjected to a radical reorganisation. Besides, structure doesn't change culture. We know that, too. I've really read a lot of reports on the advice to the IRS. In 2009 there was McKinsey's report, with good analyses and recommendations. I think the Minister himself knows that. In 2018 we also received a nice report from Secretary of State Snel, Renewing Control, with also analyses, quiet steps and goals. Then we come to the flash report of ABDTOPConsult, the runway carousel for top officials with the well-known glass floor you never go through, because you are always assured of a beautiful job. The conclusions do not lie: limit the service to the performance of core fiscal tasks and pay close attention to the additional budgetary and instrumental functions that can be carried out; focus on collection, collection and, if necessary, settlement. Those are all good advice. Mr. Chairman. In essence, it is not about good intentions. It is not that there is no lack of good plans, commitment, passion and strategy. It is very often lacking within the government to implement wisely and human measure. It almost always lacks execution power. That is why I support Mrs Lodder's proposal: come up with a sound plan of action, intermediate steps and an answer to the question of who bears what responsibility at what time. Mr. Chairman. There are two things left for me. How do we get rid of this persistent phenomenon of 'institutional bias' within the framework of the plans? And finally, how do we get the State Secretary and other authorities out of that tunnel vision faster? The last Secretary of State was in there for about a year and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u91	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Another apology and even tears from the Prime Minister, it's no good to anyone. Lives have been destroyed. Victims are waiting for the restoration of honour, for generous compensation for the suffering suffered, which can hardly or hardly be expressed in money. Go solve that: re-evaluation of about 10,000 cases without files. Mr. Chairman. Will division of the Tax Administration offer solutions in this respect? How's it gonna be okay? When will the new posts be filled in? Who will be the new Secretary of State? What's taking so long? Isn't it urgent enough? Mr. Chairman. Why is there still no decent timeline? Who knew what at what time at what level? Who didn't intervene in persistent abuse of power? Who is responsible, both administrative and political? Why is there no independent investigation? Why has the adopted motion for a resolution still not been carried out for the examination of the legal status of the Tax Administration? Then the Audit Service Rijk and his research assignment for reporting on the fraud hunt. Doesn't that leave a whole series of political leaders out of the question? What did the Prime Minister know? He was chairman of the Ministerial Commission on Fraud. All this has been approved under his presidency. Where are the reports from that committee? In June last year it was already asked if Rutte would please mind the matter. Why aren't we seeing him until now? Mr. Chairman. When will the role of political ministers finally be fully accounted for? I wholeheartedly agree with RTL's investigative journalist on this point: "The justice and restoration of trust is something like accountability." Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u93	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday, the Minister and the Prime Minister had a discussion with the victims of the surcharge affair. The Prime Minister was able to hear, for example, the story of a defence officer who suddenly owed €30,000 at the hands of the Tax Administration. The consequences for this employee were that, according to his employer, he would be blackmailable and that he would not be active. And so there are many stories. The Prime Minister was visibly moved and, as he himself said, how could he not have been? So the question is, what's his team gonna do? Mr. Chairman. The Minister has indicated that handling can take another year. That's actually way too long. Does the Minister see the possibility of paying advances in advance, for example? If not, why not? Is the Minister prepared to include in compensation arrangements all reasonably incurred costs incurred by people for the legal assistance and the costs they otherwise incurred by the Tax Administration? I'd like a response. The surcharge affair reveals how to be ground as an individual in the government's payment and recovery system. It exposes what happens when you're found guilty until you prove otherwise yourself. It reveals how whistleblowers and others who tried to pull the emergency brake were themselves the victims. It also reveals that we live in a society where for many people who have a normal job, that job does not seem to generate enough income to live on. People with an income close to the minimum need rent, care and other supplements to survive. Can this Prime Minister explain the deeper problem that we have tried to mask with the surcharges, namely that normal people are no longer able to provide their families with income on a daily basis? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. We are in a strange vacuum in which the current Minister is reorganising ad interim, while we can also look forward. The Chamber has stated that the Netherlands might be better off with a system without surcharges. Because haven't surcharges become a useless and bureaucratic pumping around of money? Should we not, in principle, ask the Minister, because the premium affair has shown that the high risk for individual citizens is too great? The risk of being unfairly treated as a fraud will continue to exist in the tax administration as long as there are many charges. Wouldn't a clearer tax base, which drastically reduces the number of supplements, be better? Do this with a direct tax on what harms our well-being, such as plane tickets, aviation fuel and meat, and a direct tax reduction on what benefits well-being, such as vegetables, fruit and the cost of a veterinarian, to name but a few. Is the Cabinet prepared to express what is desirable and undesirable in the promotion of externalities, undesirable side effects of economic action which actually harm our collective well-being and are wrongly borne by all of us? Can the Minister comment on the fact that each household is forced to contribute €500 in subsidies for agricultural holdings, as the study by Wageningen Economic Research shows? I'd like a response to that last one from the Secretary of State. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u95	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. We're gonna suspend for dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u96	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u97	Thank you, Mr President. I will answer a few questions. Most of the questions, including the questions about the reorganisation within the Tax Administration, will be answered by the Minister of Finance. He will also address questions that have been raised about issues such as how we deal with the Donner Committee, with statute of limitations and that sort of thing. So we're going to try to answer all the questions together. If you'll allow me, let me start with yesterday. We did have an impressive meeting yesterday. Some spokesmen also mentioned this meeting. If you go into politics, you do it to do good things. I think that goes for all of us. You can still have a difference of opinion about what "good" is. When you go into politics, you realize that in a rule of law there is one sacred thing at the heart of the matter, in addition to the issues that are the subject of much discussion, such as freedom of expression, freedom of religion and so on. That is that in a rule of law the government protects citizens from the omnipotence of the government. That government is able to do a great deal of good in a country. That's what we're trying to do. But that government can also, with all the power it has in it, cause enormous consequences in people's lives. I therefore gave words yesterday to the excuses previously expressed here by Menno Snel and Wopke Hoekstra. I also apologized yesterday to the people who were there. And it's not going to stop there either. One of the people asked, "We'll get together again." I said, as far as I'm concerned, yes. Let us look at the time limit and at what exact composition, but it is good to repeat this once. Hopefully we will then be able to see that there is a great deal of progress and that a lot of steps have been taken in future. You can see differences in such a group, of course. Also because of privacy I do not go into that further. There is, of course, the group which has now received an advance on the determination and on what we believe they are entitled to. This is based on the first report of the Donner Committee. But of course a very large group of people gets out of there and this is still playing and we also want to give an answer to them as soon as possible. I have indeed said that this is of such magnitude that it is not possible to do so from General Affairs itself. But that also applies to Groningen, as does MH17. AZ can't take over those cases either. But there are some of those issues that are getting really big. Nor can I prick here or determine with you exactly what the criteria are when the time comes. If anyone can, I'll hear about it and we'll consider it. MH17 is of course, with 298 dead, among them 196 Dutch, of a size that nothing nears. But then we had Groningen and this yesterday. So I said to the parents and afterward to the media: what do you learn from that? You learn, among other things, that you would wish for the following. I'm not gonna try to learn all the lessons extensively here. The question came from Mr Omtzigt and others. I think we should try to clarify this as quickly as possible. One of the lessons is that what is called "feedback loops" in terrible jargon is extremely important. That's what I said to a lot of those tables last night. I mean, if things are simply not so good at the end of the day, there must be a system in which that leads much faster to the conclusion that you cannot do so, and that this can also lead to political decision-making again if necessary, etc. And otherwise you are also talking about organisations in which a lot of people do good work. I am sorry to hear that too: yesterday there were people from the Tax Administration, very good people from the Tax Administration who led those table conversations. And they themselves were very emotional, and they already were because of everything that happened. They want nothing more than for all this to be managed now. I wish them also that on a birthday they should not be ashamed to say 'I work at the Tax Office', but that they can be proud of that. But that's not the first concern right now. The first concern is now, of course, the parents. But that's what comes up from behind. About lessons learned: I find it impossible to make a complete list here now. I have to reflect on it, too. I'm sure we'll talk about that later. But this shouldn't have happened. That's the point, and that's why I apologize. That's why I'm not in politics. That's why nobody here is in politics. Nobody wants this. They are well-intentioned people with very normal jobs and very normal families, as we all, in our families and circle of friends, stand in this society. You don't want the government to turn on you somehow. Mr. Chairman. That is the first reflection on yesterday, but Mr Omtzigt may want to say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u98	Thank you for being frank about what's wrong. Protection against the omnipotence of the government is a very liberal principle, which is very important. It is good that the Prime Minister says that this is not the end of the matter and that there is, I hope, a new meeting before the summer. These people have been waiting a long time. Is it possible to get a broad assessment of the situation before the summer of the cabinet? 'Cause we're all gonna get in the middle: the CAF business. The CAF 11 case is, as the Prime Minister says, running reasonably compared to the rest. But do we get a stand-by from the Prime Minister, who has his involvement in this together with the Minister of Finance and the new Secretary of State, to see how we stand here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u99	Yeah, but I don't know if it's steering itself. In the run-up to this debate, there was a lot of talk about whether or not I should be there. I'm here now. That's partly because of last night, quite frankly. We are talking here about the reorganisation of the Tax Administration. At first I thought: how do I manage all this in the agenda, with all the debates and all the work that is going on? Today we are talking about the reorganisation of the Tax Administration and I am extremely glad that I am here. Thank you for the people here, yourself and others, who gave feedback on that. At first I thought I could stay away, but certainly after last night I couldn't. After a night's sleep, that was perfectly clear. We are going to look for a form for this, because there is also, of course, a normal report from the cabinet on this subject and how we proceed with it. But you're actually asking, as I understand it, what are the moments when I'm visible on it myself? I understand. I do not have a ready answer to that right now, but the answer is: yes, I think that makes sense and I have to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u100	Then I expect an answer to that in the near future. I hope that, at least before the summer, we will really get a stand-by from where we stand, including to these people. 'Cause they really appreciated it. They have also appreciated the fact that it has been said that we will not let go of this matter until there is a solution. That also means that it is an expensive duty to return to that. We really understand we're not gonna do this every week or anything. But there must be a moment when we feel that we are working towards something and that we can get an intermediate position, so that people do not have to hope that there are no more files and black paint, but can see if the problems have been solved. Can we give our children a decent future again? In the meantime, isn't our house sold anymore? When's the close? I'd like to have that point somewhere before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u101	I'll check with Hoekstra, too. He says that I can promise that here, including in his planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u102	Nice words from the Prime Minister. Thank you for that. No one wants this: not the Prime Minister, not the people who made the rules and certainly not the parents. But now there's something special about it, especially with the parents he's spoken to. In this sense, this does not have much to do with the strictness of the rules we have devised with each other, with a view to taking very strict action in the event of fraud or suspicions, or at least with a situation in which, even if it is limited, the law on the childcare allowance as we have devised has not been complied with. A very specific question to the Prime Minister is: what would he want to change in the Tax Office himself, so that this really does not happen anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u103	To begin with: what you want in an organisation, regardless of organizational schedules and structures, because ultimately it's about culture, is that something is arranged when things happen that you say to each other in a normal conversation: it's obvious that we never wanted it that way. Even if the law were to force us, we would now have to lie down in sleeping bags in front of the minister's door saying that that law was probably passed by a majority in the Chamber, but... If that were the argumentation, or if things go wrong in the execution,... It's not necessarily the law. Donner talks about the law leaving no room, but there was no room for the human approach either. Then you share in an organization, in that horrible management jargon the "four-eyed principle," and you wish you had somehow secured that it comes up and is also discussed in the culture of an organization. It is said: boys, something goes wrong here on the work floor; people are fighting fraud there and they have to do so on their own, but this is now getting a form that we can of course never have meant with each other. This should not only come up so violently with the Ombudsman, but much faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u104	I think it was an Israeli philosopher who said that the most important right of a citizen is not to be humiliated by the government. That's close to the Prime Minister's words. Thank you for that. I believe that the involvement of a prime minister goes a little further than what Mr Omtzigt says. This is about the trust citizens have in the government. There are a number of things that need to be done. That is what Mr Omtzigt calls doing justice to the citizens. So, is that all gonna be fixed, and as soon as possible? But it's also about what the Cabinet needs to do widely. The decision of the Council of State of 23 October must be taken before 1 June. It also requires other ministries. I refer to the discussion on the future of the surcharge system. In fact, we need a very wide range of measures, both in the short term, close to finance, and in the longer term. This must remain visible in order to restore people's trust in the Tax Administration. I would like to see that breadth of the Prime Minister's involvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u105	I agree with that 100%. Can I sum it up like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u106	This Prime Minister can only be humbled after the great disgrace that has taken place. But it took place under the leadership of this country, with a seven-year Secretary of State of its party. With praise from this Prime Minister of a senior official, who had to leave now, because that was the man who would do the job. What has the Prime Minister heard in those seven years of Weekers and Wiebes about recovery actions that intervene so hard in families?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u107	Nothing for the signals... I come to the question about the ministerial committee on fraud. There was no mention of this issue either. The case was only gradually discussed in the cabinet after 2017, after the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u108	I find that unbelievable. There has been much more media coverage of this issue. There's been deliberate proceedings against parents by the IRS. There is also very often suitable. Mr Asscher, who was then the Deputy Prime Minister but also the Minister for Social Affairs, said, following a large report, that there were too many risks with the parents and that he wanted a different system. That was discussed in the Council of Ministers. Has there not been any mention of the risk that parents would face in this child care system and in the recovery of the child care allowance?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u109	No, I've been trying to check all that out. Especially in committee fraud has never been discussed. I also reported this to the Chamber yesterday. I will come back to this in a moment, because there are still specific questions about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u110	So the Minister of Social Affairs is getting research done and saying there's a big risk to the position of parents. There have been several parliamentary questions and several things in the media. The government decides on a different way of financing. And then it didn't come to the Council of Ministers how big the impact is on the parents?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u111	I just gave the answer. This is, of course, exactly the tragedy I am standing before, that this has not come up before. But I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u112	It is simply in a report sent to the Chamber with Mr Asscher's letter of office. That must have come to the Council of Ministers. You may not have picked it out properly, but it seems rather strange to me that a Prime Minister would have no memory or would not find it in the reports that such an important report, which leads to such an important policy change, has been discussed in the Council of Ministers. So I'm assuming you'll be happy to find out for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u113	This is it. I just gave the answer. Then I'll join the fraud committee. So there was no mention of that case. In particular, it discussed the state-wide issues related to the fight against fraud, such as data exchange, identity fraud and possible fraud with state subsidies. Then you get the question: what was the input for the discussion? The input for this has been the following. A few times there have been pieces on the agenda in which the CAF was mentioned. That is what we said in the Chamber. Those are documents that are on the agenda of the Ministerial Committee on Fraud in which the CAF occurs, but that has not been discussed in the committee. This is about the action plan and it is about the progress report. The final report was then discussed or on the agenda of the Council of Ministers. But it was accepted without discussion. So the input we had was input from all kinds of departments on all kinds of things. What was that committee looking at, then, asked Mr Omtzigt. They discussed the state-wide topics related to the fight against fraud, such as the exchange of information and so on. So then it's really about cross-domain issues. That has always been the case in those meetings. So it wasn't about the CAF case. We have looked at these reports very carefully, and that has not been discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u114	I'm just looking at the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u115	That's about the anti-fraud committee, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u116	The answers to the factual questions also state that the reports are secret, even state secret and that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u117	But I assure you, they've been viewed completely. I would really lie here if we had read it and I say here now that it has not been treated if it has been treated. There's really nothing in there about the CAF case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u118	I hope that we will soon be discussing the Open Government Act as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u119	Yeah, he's coming, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u120	He's gonna be here. I understand there are rules for that. I understand that the Prime Minister is also watching very closely, but one of my questions is the following, and that is part of the responsibility of the cabinet. For example, Mr Omtzig keeps asking again and again: "What has been the decision-making process? Who knew when? Why aren't signals picked up sooner?" The truth about exactly how that went must also come out. So my very simple question is this. With the rules I know, these reports and possibly the memos that have been exchanged between the departments, are available for the ADR and the Donner Committee, so that our independent researchers...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u121	I'm gonna find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u122	... would be able to see what happened there, even if we could not understand it ourselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u123	I'm gonna find out, but in itself, the play is public, because it was sent to the Chamber. The document submitted to the ministerial committee in which what is being done from all departments and in which the CAF case is thus referred to is a public document. The document adopted by the Council of Ministers without discussion is also a public document. The only question is, of course, whether this was discussed in the sitting, whether there were any reflections on it and whether any comments were made on CAF. No, those reports don't say anything about that. The agenda does not go into that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u124	No, exactly. That's exactly why I asked for it. I noticed that the CAF cases were mentioned in those public documents that were simply sent to the Chamber. But I also know that it is used in ministerial councils that the administration is being prepared, including memos and mutual discussions between departments, the Tax Administration and Social Affairs in this case. That underlying information is of course also...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u125	We're gonna see what the ADR sees of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u126	...not just secretly, but if that's available to researchers, I think that would help to answer the question of exactly how that went.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u127	We'll see about that. Look, if they're really official pieces again... well. Look, what happened is that that fraud report says a piece of finance. That CAF case is stuck in that piece, so to speak. This was then discussed in the ministerial committee. There was no discussion of the CAF case. I do not know what was exchanged between officials before, but I understand your question. We just need to see what we can or cannot share with the ADR.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u128	The Prime Minister began his story by saying that it was ordinary people here "people like us," said the Prime Minister, I believe, and that it is actually a horror scenario when the government turns against you. At the same time, it is now said that these messages have not come through all these years. How does the Prime Minister feel about the fact that thousands, perhaps tens of thousands of people, as has just been said, have been humiliated by the government and that this is not ultimately known to the political leadership?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u129	Donner says it quite precisely: there was legislation that left no room, there was no human approach and there was also a political context. In general, this leads to institutional bias. He actually makes that analysis in his first report, and I think he's right about that. I think those are the elements that are right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u130	But it remains that the Netherlands that we always talk about, that is democratic, that is transparent and where people are treated fairly... So that didn't happen for about ten or fifteen years. Even from the first reports, we've been almost four years. In those four years we've heard and read that, a lot of lives have been destroyed. How is that possible? You're responsible for that. How do you judge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u131	I apologized yesterday, personally and, of course, on behalf of the government. I apologized exactly for the things Menno Snel and Wopke Hoekstra did before. I did that yesterday, exactly for that reason. I can't fix that right now, but it's precisely for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u132	You can make it up to me to make it up to me. That has also been mentioned in this debate this evening. There are still a lot of things going on and there are opportunities that you can already settle by being a little more flexible and friendly towards the questions of the victims. But you do not, and I find that very unfortunate together with the SP and a few others. 'Cause you can make up for a few things, actually already tonight. But you don't want it. I don't think that's what the Prime Minister wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u133	No, of course we are also trying to base ourselves on the club that is also wanted by the Chamber, which is now looking objectively at what the follow-up steps should be. Wopke Hoekstra will go into this so extensively as a result of the Donner-Commission, because you also have to have a touchstone on how to proceed with this now. In the end, this will prevent arbitrariness. That's how you try to speed up the process. When Donner's first report came out, you also saw that things could happen very quickly after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u134	But the arbitrariness has, of course, been there in recent years. The IRS decided what he wanted. So there was this randomness. It is up to us, just you, to end this arbitrariness now and do something for those people. You can do that, you have that power. Use it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u135	I just gave the answer. And there is, of course, further discussion on how Donner's further report will lead to further steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u136	New question, Mr. Overzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u137	Yes, Mr. Chairman. If a citizen drives 2 km/h too fast, he gets a fine and is responsible. If a student doesn't get 0.10% enough for his VMBO exam, he doesn't get a diploma. And if an entrepreneur returns his VAT return two days late, he gets a heavy fine. Then we will be able to trace exactly how this citizen made a mistake throughout the government and we will know how to find him fine and sometimes punish him harshly. Here 10,000 citizens, and perhaps even more, have been caught up in government decisions for years. I've been asking questions for two and a half years now. That not every decision is made 100%, I still understand. But can the Prime Minister explain to me that after two and a half years of asking, I still don't know why the ministerial committee didn't take the decision, why the Secretary of State didn't take the decision, why we can't find a decision from a top official, why we can't find a decision from it, and why we can't find a decision when it's reversed? What kind of government is this? When a citizen makes a decision, it is well-defined by this government, but when the government takes a decision that has a major impact on those citizens, we have not been able to reconstruct anything for two years. How does the Prime Minister look at such a way of governing things? Does it fit into a parliamentary democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u138	I understand that question a thousand percent, but the tragedy is that these progress reports have, of course, been there to some extent. I understand what Mr Omtzigt is saying about the last few years. I also know what battle he has fought, but during the period before that the Court has been reported to the Court on the CAF approach and on how fraud has been handled. Those pieces were sent to the Chamber. That's what I just said. That has been debated. Legislation was introduced in 2013, 2014 and before that. This has led to a total absence of room for individual considerations and for customization, as Donner says in his essay. I think Mr Omtzigt is referring to the last few years. Then, of course, the debate was held here with Menno Snel. Ever since he was here, he's done his stinking best to solve this problem. Eventually, he had to make the choice to quit. It all happened before Christmas. That's not what we're trying to figure out right now. But he hasn't really been working on anything else. Over the past few years, the Council of Ministers has regularly discussed the question "how are we going to try to manage this extremely complex process that is indeed far-reaching for people?" The Council of Ministers was also briefed by him on the way in which he was working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u139	The problem isn't that the laws were too strict. The problem is that the Tax Administration has failed to comply with the laws in a structural manner. It has been established, also in a chamber motion which has been judged by the Chamber, that the Tax Office should at most have suspended those surcharges, but should never have stopped. As a result, the law immediately fell and people immediately got into trouble. Under the General Administrative Law you have the right to receive an objection within six weeks. If the government makes a mistake then a decision is made if it is right by a new pair of eyes. That is basic legal protection. It's all taken away. For a year and a half these people have waited. In the meantime, there was recovery. People have fallen into a spiral. They lost their house. Relationships have been broken. They couldn't raise their children well. There's probably one case of suicide. Everything came up. It's not like they've obeyed the law. They didn't obey the law. That's what I want you to say here. So I'm asking the Prime Minister how he reflects that we can't get this over the table. What exactly is that about? What is it that the government has already discussed this on several occasions in the Council of Ministers, that we have often asked for it, but that we still do not have five or six points in the picture, which we say we made a decision then, or that someone made a decision, and that has been the result and we report it in this way? I'm not saying that to blame anyone, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u140	To learn from.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u141	...because it scares the hell out of me. I am terrified that this can happen without decisions being taken, and even more scarier than when there are decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u142	Maybe we'll talk past each other, but strictly speaking, the reports show that that CAF approach was there. It's just shared with the room. That's one. The second is that there were also court cases which, up to the level of the Council of State, ultimately gave the government the right to apply it. That was until last year, until the Sprake Council of April of last year. There was of course already the Ombudsman's signal earlier, in 2017. I am not saying that this is the answer to Mr Omtzigt's question, but I suspect that these will be elements of the way in which that has been done. In itself, it has always been communicated externally that this approach was there, but you are now of course establishing that this is not what you want. Donner also says that, apart from the legislation, there was no room for human action. That is one of the elements that leads to what he calls 'institutional bias'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u143	The Prime Minister is now saying that there has been external communication about this way of doing things. I would like to know what documents have been communicated externally about the fact that parents would be dealt with in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u144	No, of course not. I mean that the CAF approach has been mentioned several times in the fraud reports. I am not saying that the Chamber could have known all about it or that the cabinet could have known all about it. I am just saying that these fraud reports naturally mention it. There was apparently no request in the ministerial committee at the time, because it was not dealt with at all, nor was it discussed here in the Chamber. So it's also wrong. We agree on that. I would also like you to learn lessons from that with each other so that you can avoid that in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u145	The Prime Minister is now saying in an interim sense: the Chamber could not have known that and the government could not have known that. How do the lines of responsibility work in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u146	I am not sure, because this is of course also the subject of research, partly by the ADR. But one of the things you read back in Donner I is that, apart from the legislation, in the implementation there was no human space for customization. That's one of the things he calls it. I'm not saying it's exhaustive, but that's one of the things he calls it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u147	In 2009, then Secretary of State De Jager made the decision on how to deal with recovery. Then it was said: if someone is accused of knowingly not applying the law, that there is a deliberate or gross guilt, then you can take him very hard. Of course, you can blame someone for that, but they have to be able to defend themselves. And since 2009, people have been blamed, but they haven't been able to defend themselves. That was a long way before the Bulgarian scam. What letter or evaluation does it say that the Tax Administration can apply it without anyone being able to defend themselves? Then can you tell me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u148	That's not what I'm saying. I'm not saying that's anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u149	No, exactly. That's where it goes wrong. So that's what the IRS doesn't have. He has no evidence that these people are guilty of fraud. That's why all these people are hearing now: no, you're not a fraud. So they all have to get that money back. Then why do you have to wait for the Donner Committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u150	Look, I think there's one step in that, and that's the Donner Commission. But that's what Wopke Hoekstra is about to talk about. We're trying to satisfy people as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u151	This question was asked in the first period, so I assume that this question will be answered shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u152	No, but here the Donner Committee is also being used a bit to launder its own responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u153	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u154	It is said "it was the spirit of the time" and "it was institutionally biased." No, it's a violation of that collection decision since 2009, with the idea that when you label someone as a fraud under intent or gross guilt, you can deal with them as hard as you can. It's in that law, yes, but you weren't allowed to accuse people without proof. And that's been happening for years. In fact, that happened last November. And I can't believe that the Prime Minister, with seven years of VVD executives and later his own VVD top man as Secretary-General, yes, you yourself have never heard of it in the newspaper "VVD executives."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u155	Come on. I'm about to talk about how you...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u156	What are those excuses worth?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u157	I am going to talk about how the Dutch government is gradually being put together in the garbage can. I am going to speak about this separately, because I do not like it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u158	Then the Minister must...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u159	I'm gonna talk about that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u160	Don't talk through it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u161	Then neither should the Prime Minister put in the paper that this is the man who's going to straighten things out for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u162	Oh, my gosh!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u163	Then neither should the Prime Minister ensure that each time it is the same administration that is given all the tasks and is allowed to perform all the functions. He's there himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u164	Mrs. Leijten, you have...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u165	Things have gone terribly wrong here. I didn't apologize for that for nothing. I hate it. I did not say for nothing: Mrs Leijten and I do not need to convince each other of the seriousness of this. I know it's very important to her. Me too; I can assure her that. I hate it when people in this country are treated by the government in such a way and their lives are affected in such a way. Then you want justice as soon as possible. But we have agreed on how to do this as soon as possible, even earlier in debates here. Donner will be here as soon as possible with his report. After that, we need to get on with it as soon as possible. We have also tried to do this in the CAF 11 case by working with advances so that we can give that compensation as soon as possible. But you're gonna have to rely on something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u166	Finally, Mrs Leijten, otherwise... You have made your point quite clear, so finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u167	"As soon as possible"? "As soon as possible"? We asked before the summer who knew what was happening and whether criminal offences had been committed. The Minister of Finance didn't have to say in this Chamber until last week: okay, then I'll do an investigation. That's not "as soon as possible." This Prime Minister did not call for "as soon as possible" at all in 2017, nor when he was told by his Minister of Social Affairs that the parents were too at risk of paying back the childcare allowance. That's just in reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u168	I was a little shocked when the Prime Minister indicated how he himself looked at the matter, particularly with regard to throwing a lot of the legislation that has been devised, human size and so on. I think that it has also been pointed out a number of times that this is not so much a human measure, but simply a systematic violation of three laws, and that for years. It is right to say: you cannot get away with that. It is very strange that this did not come naturally to the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister. But if sometime in September 2017 by a renowned institution like the Ombudsman is really judged to be devastating that by the actions of these officials, by some of the officials, it isn't really all of my civil servants that I couldn't survive... I've truly surprised myself, also towards Menno Snel, the previous Secretary of State, because he knew that before. And I also ask the Prime Minister: what is different in Donner's report than what was observed by the Ombudsman more than two and a half years ago? Why didn't you act then?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u169	Menno Snel, of course, has been working on this subject since he arrived in October or November 2017. That is what the Council of State's decision of April last year came up with. He said, after saying for years that the government, the government and the tax authorities were right: no, this is not possible. That, of course, has accelerated the situation further. With that you can see that this is too late from 2017 onwards too, you can now determine whether or not politically it has come on the radar. Those are the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u170	The Council of State has indeed said last time: there is room for partial action. That is what the Council of State has actually said for the first time. Mr Snel said: they also have butter on their heads; they could have noticed that earlier. That's not what this case is about. No way. That's not about you talking to the parents yesterday, who didn't do anything wrong. It is about that part, which has been able to go on for years, that officials also said internally: "This cannot be done. That's not how you deal with these people. These people we hunt over the blade." Again, that was already in the report in 2017. As a simple MP if I can read that... I did that, then went to see the Secretary of State, read the file, talked to some of the parents and said: this stinks, this is weird. The Secretary of State then stayed in a tunnel vision for one and a half years, with the result that these parents still suffered for many years. Donner's report says the same thing in a slightly different wording as in 2017. Why wasn't it said at the time: "Under my rule, this cannot happen. Secretary of State: report, get to work. We're gonna fix this"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u171	Of course, we would all prefer to rewind that film and much further, so for 2017, far before the Ombudsman's ruling. The fact is that Menno Snel started working on the file soon from his arrival to try to manage it as well as possible. The fact is that until April last year the Council of State agreed with the Tax Administration in those court cases. Of course, that's the frustrating part. Then you say "we would have had things sooner..." and "we would have been able to intervene sooner," so that this would have had less impact on people's lives. We don't have to convince each other about that. I agree with Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u172	Finally, Mr President. I'm just getting a little worked up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u173	You're not the only one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u174	I see Mr Hoekstra nodding too. It is really not the case that Mr Snel, no matter how much I like him and no matter what a good person I think he is, began to solve the problems. He, too, continued to think that the Tax Administration was doing well a year and a half after the Ombudsman's report came out. It just wasn't. He was in a tunnel vision. You can't say that he was working from the start, because he wasn't. He started working since July. Too late, too little. There was no turning back then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u175	From 2017 on, of course, it was completely clear that things had to be politically different, and certainly also in the implementation. You can see, of course, that the matter has only accelerated since the Council of State ruling in 2019. It's too late. I understand that, too. That's not Menno Snel's fault. It is, of course, a collective failure that has happened too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u176	Things have clearly gone wrong with the Tax Administration, but the Donner Committee is also talking about the political context. This was a context of strict, stricter, stricter, during Bulgarian fraud but also before, with laws from 2010-2015. Does the Prime Minister agree with D66 that afterward we simply lost too much sight of the human dimension...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u177	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u178	...and have really gone crazy, which has made people who have been mistaken too long by politics as fraudsters?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u179	Yes, the latter is an effect of that, but let me deal with that human measure and what Donner says about it, namely that the legislation left no room for that. I think that's just true. Of course, you want to maintain support for the system of social schemes by addressing people who abuse them. Otherwise, you're gonna lose your support. But you don't want that to lead to witch hunts or to a situation where acting against people who are not reasonably personally accused of being guilty can go so far as to go. This is also apparent from the case that has been made available for Christmas. Of course, that's the lesson you have to learn from this. This also has to do with the legislation on this issue, which I agree with Mr Van Weyenberg. He left too little room for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u180	I think it is important for the Prime Minister simply to acknowledge that we had gone crazy in that strict, stricter, strictest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u181	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u182	One of the things I do notice is this. These supplements also involve other ministries, which give the orders. They seem almost absent from the debate. We found one letter, I believe, from Asscher and Wiebes, in which there were some phrases such as 'no show, no money' and 'yes, there will be good people suffering from the evils, but I must have the support of your Chamber'. How are we really going to ensure that these commissioning ministries are really getting into the process of implementing the motion that I tabled together with Mr Bruins? Because I want to talk about this not only with the Secretary of State, but also with those who really came up with the laws and the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u183	I think you should do two things for that. Firstly, this has to do with the legislation and the rigidity that Mr Van Weyenberg and I have just talked about. The second is the system of supplements itself. That brings me to the question that was just asked in the round of questions by... Let me see, can I find it again? Yes, Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals asked that question, I thought. How's the future of the supplement system going? If it is up to this cabinet, the new Secretary of State is not only going to work on managing this huge pile of misery, but will also work on how to get into a situation where we are moving away from this supplement system step by step. I think a motion has also been passed in the Chamber. The tricky thing is that it leads to extreme redistribution effects if you do that head-on, where higher incomes rise enormously and lower incomes collapse. So that's something you're going to have to do over a slightly longer period. That should also be ready for the next formation. There was no such thing last time, in 2017. There was no proposal, no detailed idea how we could get rid of the surcharges. You're gonna have to do both. I therefore believe that it has to do with the anti-fraud legislation, but also with the supplementing system itself. That in the end so many people are entitled to benefits is obviously not what you want. It's 7 million because of the care allowance alone, I say out of my mind. Of course, you should be able to arrange this in the normal income building and in the tax system. I believe that is what Mrs Leijten said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u184	That was exactly the background to my question. For example, we are going to do something about all-or-non-policy in the short term. That has been promised; there will be a legislative change and it should be different in practice. I'm looking for the future right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u185	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u186	I would like to ask the Prime Minister two questions. It has now been promised that the cabinet will look at more fundamental variants, as requested by the Chamber, after the arrival of the inquiry into the surcharges. Would the Prime Minister guarantee, and take the lead in this, that these three ministries, which are often lacking here when we talk about it, will also be included, and that this is really happening? Does he want to make sure that, for example, around the summer, those far-reaching, really creative variants are just lying here - a higher minimum wage, the replacement of the childcare allowance with childcare as a basic provision, a negative income tax - so that we have exactly that material at the next formation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u187	I would like to talk about all this in this next formation, but let us talk about the exact timing before I put the new Secretary of State in a position to say: now you have to cough this up before the summer. Maybe it's possible, and I'd like to, but let's give that man or woman a chance to get the legs under the desk. This is one of the jobs that lies ahead: at the latest for the next formation, set up a system where you can get rid of those surcharges.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u188	Exactly. I'm waiting for that exact moment, but I'm asking for maximum haste, also to be able to use it in programs. I don't want to just look at the Secretary of State. That was the essence of my question. I believe that the Minister of Finance, and certainly the Prime Minister, can direct it, so that the Minister of Housing, the Minister of...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u189	This is wider than just the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u190	Exactly, because that's where the laws come from and not from the Secretary of State. The Prime Minister has a directing role in that. I appeal to him and I ask him to say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u191	I agree with him. It's going wider. What we now have in mind is a project not only from bonuses, but also from policy content, because Mr Van Weyenberg is absolutely right. This affects a number of people widely in the cabinet. It is also the involvement of Social Affairs in the childcare allowance, of VWS on the care allowance and of Infrastructure and Living in the rent allowance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u192	Mr President, may I just say one more thing...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u193	Yes, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u194	I welcome this answer. I'm glad it's gonna happen like this. I hope that we can really do that variant without taboos, because we will have to be very creative to get rid of those surcharges.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u195	One thing, Mr. Chairman. If you allow one taboo in the discussion, it's not gonna work. I have had this political discussion in my own party a few times now, and it has also been discussed in the coalition. It is immediately jammed, when clamps are put on in advance. You have to do this taboo-free and then you have to hope... No, don't hope. Let's hope someplace else. But then you can finally come to something. And even then, you're gonna need a few years. My conviction is "I hope I'm wrong "that you also need a transition phase, where hopefully you're going to use the space for load relief focused to take those steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u196	I'll give you the floor in a minute, Mr. Van Raan. I also see Mr Omtzigt. I'd like to take a look at this anyway. Let me put it this way: a lot of questions have been asked, including about the future. There are specific questions. There must be concrete solutions. So also these kinds of questions need to be given space. This is the fourth plenary debate on this subject and I am therefore looking at the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u197	I barely have any answers. I had just announced to Mrs Leijten in the last interruption that I would say something about ABD and yet something about...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u198	Before you go there, I'm going to see Mr Van Raan first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u199	Thank you for the Prime Minister's answer to the questions we asked about the surcharges, namely: shouldn't you make sure they weren't intrinsically necessary? I'm glad we're gonna take a look at that and the negative income tax. Who knows what's gonna come out of that? I was wondering if... Maybe he can say something about that, without pointing that out right away. At the same time, we are also working on very precise restructuring proposals. They seem very concrete, but we are also going to think about how we can get rid of these surcharges. How does the Prime Minister see this? Can we have two reorganisations in a row? How does he feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u200	That's what Hoekstra goes for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u201	That's what the Minister of Finance will come back to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u202	Yes, the Minister of Finance. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u203	We have just seen that in fact it is not traceable who makes decisions in this country. At least we haven't figured it out in two and a half years. We don't know who's doing this. I still have an addition to what the Prime Minister says, namely that the government was always right. She wasn't always right. In 2017, there was a destructive report from the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u204	That's what I mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u205	That's what the Prime Minister called it. It was called "No Powerplay but Fair Play." There was no ambiguity about the title. Quite exceptionally, the Ombudsman said: you must correct it for this group. But it didn't. The Council of State already ruled in 2016 that the suspension was illegal. Later on there were other things, but that was already in 2016. That's the second High College of State. The Supreme Court said the documents were incomplete. That was the third High College of State. The Children's Ombudsman, number four, said the importance of children is not taken into account. And five, the House of Representatives asked questions and said, "Do something about it." 2017! Five High Colleges of State say, "Do what, look!" And then the Prime Minister says, "The IRS got right." The IRS settled with parents in 3,000 cases. He knew there was no winning. And what happened? Just before the trial, something was offered. How does the Prime Minister judge that on the one hand we have nothing traceable, which I find really scary in a rule of law, but also that we have five High Colleges of State, which said two and a half years ago: cut that bite? If we had listened then, we would not have had this debate; the matter would have been resolved. How do you ensure that the cabinet listens seriously to the High Colleges of State? 'Cause it wasn't once in red, it was five times in red.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u206	Yes, the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u207	This is, of course, the main lesson. This is the most important lesson you have to pull out. However, I also insist that Snel started the subject quickly from his arrival. I know Omtzigt thought it was too little and too late, and I understand that. And I know that these debates have taken place here, and that this has been accelerating since April 2019. I accept and understand that Mr Omtzigt says: that was too late and too little. And these debates have always taken place here, especially on the Ombudsman, and certainly also on a number of judgments. And that has always led to political conclusions here, and accelerations where they could. But that's after. What I agree with Omtzigt is that, if these kinds of signals come, at least that's the lesson I'm taking out, at least that's going to have to look at a lot more seriously at the time than it did then. I do not want to provide that with a qualification, but that seems to me to be the case, and I should like to say very carefully to Donner's conclusion that, at that time, you might be able to derive from Donner, too little follow-up has been given to these kinds of signals. In fact, it is, and I agree with him. I wish we could reverse that now, Mr. Omtzigt; I would love to. And I understand you personally: you have been so committed to the subject; the frustration; that you stand here for a few years asking for attention and that you think: if more had been done then, we could have avoided a lot of misery. I understand that, and you're right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u208	Mr. Chairman. These are signals that do not really need to lead to a debate in the Chamber. A State Council ruling or an Ombudsman should in itself be sufficient for a government to act. That's really something else, I say, than a single phone call at the Tax Phone. That's one thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u209	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u210	Can the government, the Prime Minister, once reflect on this, so how does it happen, how can those signals be missed? So when we talk about this again in May or June...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u211	I'll get back to you on that. My lesson is learned. I'll pass on the lessons learned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u212	Those lessons learned. If we can get it then, I would appreciate it very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u213	I'll hand out the lessons learned. I'll write that down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u214	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u215	Mr. Chairman. Just one more comment. The Prime Minister just got pretty bright. He said something about the official summit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u216	He'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u217	I know, but I just wanted to say this. It is a good thing that he goes into that, but no one puts away half the official summit in the Netherlands. All we're trying to do is tackle the people who have shown demonstrably wrong behavior. And it's only natural that we do that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u218	No, that's normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u219	...and you should.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u220	It's normal for the Cabinet to do that. That's what we always try to do. And if mistakes are made, then that must be dealt with. But I stand here, chairman, and I am really going to share that with you, that the way in which the General Administrative Service is being talked about, there is talk about the official summit in the Netherlands, where most of the cases include decent people who are trying to manage this country for all of us and to support this cabinet as best as possible in its administrative and legislative tasks... If things don't go well, then of course we have to act on them. But that's not something we're going to discuss in public here. There is no way that if a problem occurs somewhere in the official organisation, you will be sitting here in the Chamber sharing who it was and what happens to it. That person can't defend himself. I have said it before, also in the media: here is the Henk Kampdoctrine. For Henk Kamp, only two people worked at the Department of Defense: him and the Secretary of State. Yeah, there were 60,000 of them. But if that was critical, he defended the organization as such. If he saw reason to intervene in that organization, he did, but he never told anyone about it outside. He said, "You are dealing with me, and if you do not like me, you must send me away." In this way it is becoming increasingly difficult to get good people for top official positions. They're getting outlaws. They can't defend themselves in public. With this you do injustice to the enormous qualities that exist in that official summit; whether that is the ABD as an organisation that takes care of the top nominations, or ABDTOPConsult, which takes care of people with a lot of experience, who ensure that major issues that temporarily play, are addressed or provided with advice. I really object to that, Mr President. That way you cannot maintain the Dutch system. Then you have to go to the Belgian /q. The French system with political appointments at the official summit, and I would be extremely opposed to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u221	No one claims that there is not much quality in the civil service in the Netherlands and at the official summit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u222	Then be careful to talk about it so openly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u223	Do you know who couldn't defend themselves? You say not the official summit. Those parents couldn't defend themselves. The emotion you're showing us right now, we would have liked to see the moment it was about those parents and not about those civil servants. Yeah, those officials have to do their job, but they can defend themselves. Those parents, they've had it their way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u224	Agreed. I agree with a thousand percent, but that doesn't mean that you can't say then: we're going to talk publicly about a DG Tax Service, where it goes or doesn't go and whether it works or whether it's a sg of Justice, what happened? Isn't that incredibly harmful to people? Then you must appeal to the Minister if things are not going well there and if you do not agree. It damages people and wrongs are done, because it is judged far too short. I totally agree that this is of course not the case with the discussion that is at hand, but I would also like to have said it here, because I think that in this debate too we are talking about this kind of thing with our own hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u225	The Chamber is doing exactly what the Prime Minister wants here. We urge him to deal with these top nominations in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u226	And that's how it's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u227	We appeal to him to have the same top people rotated over and over again. Take a look at the pigeon loft that has been the ministerial top at Finance when it comes to the Tax Administration. Look what a piece of shit that brought in the IRS. Then do not choose the same solution again for the same problem. Then it won't be solved. And to that I appeal to the Prime Minister, also because he says in the newspaper that the previous top executive of Fees and the Tax Administration was incredibly good. Do you know what those parents don't understand, who work in cleaning and start at six in the morning, or who work in the enforcement of the streets in Rotterdam, or who work in the relief services in The Hague, or who have lost their jobs and volunteering? Do you know what they get when they make a mistake? There's the hole of the door! And do you know what they read in the newspaper when someone is rightly pointed the hole off the door? That there is another door wide open! And that's exactly why people become cynical about politics. Indeed, I hold the Prime Minister responsible for that. Stop that job carousel!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u228	The latter is a conclusion that I do not share, but I agree with the rest of Mrs Leijten's speech that you should address me and then I can defend myself. There is a motion-Lodders that says: reflect on the whole of the ABD. That's fine. You should be able to do that here. But what is happening to me more and more recently is that politicians also call top officials by name and by name. And that's extremely damaging, because we don't always know all the details and we don't know everything and those people can't defend themselves, making them outlaw. That's no worse than what the parents are going through. What these parents are going through is ten times worse. I agree with a thousand percent, but this has also happened in this debate and I have to address it. I totally agree that what happened to these parents is ten times worse than what I'm discussing here about the ABD, but I do want to have said this here. We have to stand together for our people, too. Mrs Leijten is right that the cabinet should be called upon if things are not going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u229	The ABD's top executives have just died very often because the Chamber revealed abuses, whether it was a solar king at the NZa, whether it was about the Tax Office's Fees or whether it was about the Fyra at Traffic and Water State. And there's a pattern. There is also a pattern that when those people are appointed, jubilee press messages are sent. Then your fingers will be in the door, I'll tell the Prime Minister. Because don't do that: pull them in jubilantly, but shut up the Chamber if it is right to criticise. That cannot be done, it cannot be done, because we can criticize it, and if they do something right, we can also say so. However, it doesn't matter if the Prime Minister gets so emotional about a bunch of top officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u230	Oh, come on. There she goes again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u231	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u232	"A bunch of running top officials." This is a statement you cannot make as a serious Member of Parliament, isn't it, Renske, Mrs Leijten? That's just not real. You can't talk about our official summit like that, can you? Really, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u233	Well, Mrs. Renske.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u234	Sorry, Mrs. Renske. You can't do that. I really object to it. If things don't go well, you're gonna have to call me and expect me to intervene. Then we'll either do it or we won't. Then we either agree or disagree. We're probably not even gonna report on that to the Chamber. Then the Chamber sees how the organisation continues. That's the principle. At its core, the Chamber has to do with the cabinet. If things in organizations don't go well, then we need to discuss them. If the Chamber reveals things, then we must give follow-up. But putting away the official summit as a job carousel here is not good. Look what this does to people. Those people in the Netherlands also have the choice of working in business or doing other things. I am not saying that this is worse than today's main topic, because the parents' problem is ten times worse. I understand that, but this is also a subject in the debate, and I do not want to leave it unspoken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u235	These top officials are already making a lot of money and they have never eaten a sandwich less because of the wrongs they got for each other, or in their personal lives, or through the tax money. The point is that there is never any consequence. I chased Mrs. Schippers when she was a minister about that top man at the NZa we sent away. What was her simple answer?: Mrs Leijten, if I have to fire him, which I might agree with, it's more expensive than giving him a new job in the government. That's the sick system. The Prime Minister may now evaluate this by his own party's motion, but of course that should have been done much earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u236	You've made your point. Mr Snels, because Mr Azarkan has a very different question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u237	I agree entirely with the Prime Minister. We really need to prevent the official summit from becoming political. I have never asked questions about officials in recent debates. I have two questions, and then it gets a little more political. It's a political question to the cabinet. The Lodders motion asks us to take a business look at the rotation system. Where does that come from, among other things? The tax authorities, for example, find that there is a lack of real knowledge of the substance of the tax. Of course, that's much more true in the state service. That is one of the arguments, a political argument, on which we must have a political debate. Then it is right that a business evaluation of the system should take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u238	Agreed. That is not the point I wanted to make either, because I very much agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u239	Then there is the second question. In that context, for the first time, I did mention the name of a top official, but perhaps I should not have done so. What I find difficult in this case, and that is a political question, is this: if there is an opinion from ABDTOPConsult and the same official then becomes interim-dg, it will be difficult for me as a Member of Parliament to weigh the value of the opinion. That would appear to be a political issue. I think the cabinet should prevent this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u240	That is where Mr Hoekstra is still referring to it in Mr Hoekstra's report, which is far from personal interest. I'm really glad someone's willing to take on this very difficult job. I know the person very well from my previous functioning. I hardly dare to say it anymore, because then Mrs Leijten says that I am getting him too excited, but I have faith in it. This person has a thousand reasons not to do it, because it's an incredibly difficult job. Let us be glad that he is willing to do so. I think we will all be able to see that afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u241	I hope so. I would add to the Prime Minister's statement in his somewhat emotional speech that, I think, we still have one of the best empire services in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u242	Absolutely. That's how everyone sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u243	Exactly. That is what I wanted to say, but at the same time it is difficult for me as a Member of Parliament when opinions and appointments get mixed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u244	Then we must be able to explain it properly. That is what Mr Hoekstra is going to do. In this case it is simply not true, but Mr Hoekstra is going to explain it in a moment. However, that is also allowed, of course. The general reflection, which Mrs Lodder says is good, is also important. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Knops, is working on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u245	Mr. Chairman. One last question. A large part of that illegal work, opposing the parents, making it extremely difficult for parents, happened under the leadership of the previous Secretary of State. I was surprised that this Prime Minister, the former Secretary of State, promoted to Minister of Economic Affairs and Climate. Why is that, anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u246	If Mr Azarkan has any objection to this, he must table a motion of censure against the cabinet. I am not going to evaluate the entire appointment policy of 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u247	I'm addressing the Prime Minister, because he's standing right here. I've noticed two things that are really worth mentioning. A large part of the cases that went wrong happened under the direction of the previous Secretary of State. In addition, a departure scheme was organised which cost 700 million under his direction, and then we found that we lost a lot of quality. As a result, you will be promoted to Minister of Economic Affairs and Climate. My question is whether that can be explained. Why don't you explain that to people who follow it from a distance and say, "Oh, boy," but that can't be true, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u248	I can't go here and explain the whole formation and talk about what happened there. The fact is that mistakes were made during that period. Yes, firstly by me in the full ten years, or nine years and four months, that I am now Prime Minister, on all kinds of subjects. I also had the nerve to continue in 2017. Eric Wiebes also made mistakes when he was Secretary of State. Yeah, that's right. Finally, the consideration of the chief of such a party: is this person suitable to go to another appointment? I'm not going to answer to Mr. Azarkan about that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u249	Thank you. You're done, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u250	Yeah, that would be my suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u251	I shall now give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u252	Thank you, Mr President. I am about to start by saying a few things about yesterday's meeting, about previous meetings and about my contacts with the parents. Secondly, I would like to talk about how to proceed with Supplements and with CAF. Thirdly, I will deal with the follow-up steps at the Tax Office. With your permission, I would like to make a few brief preliminary remarks, also because the Prime Minister has already appointed some of these. I am about to say more about the parents, but I would like to stress once again that for me personally, over the last four weeks, the parents are in place one, two and three. I have said this before: here in the Chamber and in the media. That must remain the case in the coming period. Many of my actions have been aimed at this personally and at the Ministry, including in all the contacts that have been made in recent weeks. The second thing I wanted to say is this. All kinds of criticism have rightly been voiced: on the Cabinet and on the Tax Administration. However, I would also like to add my voice to what Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Stoffer and, in my view, Mr Nijboer have said about the system. It was the policy that this system wanted. It is, at least by the standards of the present day, an extremely harsh system, with surcharges which we pay in advance and which we correct in many cases. It has been the express wish of politics. Then we continued to tighten the screws, as a result of the Bulgarian fraud. I do not want to take anything away from the criticism of what has happened in my house over the past few years, but it is something we have to relate to. Perhaps that is what Mr Omtzigt was asking for. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister said a few words about the ABD. That would be my third point. Let me also say the following for the Tax Administration/Admissions and the around 30 000 people working for Finance. Yeah, something obviously went wrong. We can see that, too. I have announced a whistleblower arrangement, there will be trust counsellors or women, there is the criminal law side, which I am also discussing with the Minister of JenV, and there is my Friday letter on the examination of the objections. Yeah, we're all gonna do that. But also for the rest of the tax administration is the same as what the Prime Minister just said about the summit of the civil service. The vast majority of people there, of course, do that work with a lot of energy, totally capable and with great integrity. I think it is important to highlight this, because you can imagine that all the reports on this matter are, of course, not to be avoided either, not only for the official summit in The Hague, but also for the tens of thousands of people working at Customs in the port, in Apeldoorn in the IT department and so on. Mr. Chairman. The last preliminary remark I would like to make with your permission is about the enormous commitment of the previous Secretary of State and the enormous work he has done on the CAF, but also about many of the follow-up steps that we are about to discuss. Honestly, a lot of what I have communicated with the Chamber over the past few weeks is directly in line with what he has done. It's also very often what he's been up to. I think the Chamber recognizes that many of those points were not new, but were simply a continuation or acceleration of what Menno Snel, with whom I have worked very well, has done. Mr. Chairman. Then the first main point about the meetings. The Prime Minister has said a lot about it, but let me also say something in my own words. The first meeting was here in the hallway. In my view, Mrs Leijten was partly at that meeting with parents who had come for the debate in December. I spoke with them during the pause of the debate on the Autumn note. Secondly, there was the group of parents that I spoke to in my own room, right after the ceremony. I spoke to them again yesterday, together with the Prime Minister. About these meetings, I would like to say that there are extremely moving stories and that is very impressive. The grief and powerlessness is felt at every table. Those who say that talking to these people at best is the very beginning of a possible restoration of trust are, of course, quite right. There's no other way. However, I do think that we should do so and that this is also the duty of the Prime Minister and of me. There is much more to be said about what else we are going to do, but I would also like to say to Mr Nijboer that this is of course something that I think we two will continue to do on behalf of the Prime Minister. This was also the reason for me to have a discussion with Mr Donner and the Ombudsman during the last week, and to visit the ordinary staff of Fees and the MT of Fees on the first Monday after the recess, apart from all the contact I had during the recess. In addition, I had a discussion with Mr Niessen just before the debate and with one of the lawyers who brought this dossier in particular. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the apology. I can only repeat what the Prime Minister said about it. We tried to do that again yesterday. Mr Bruins I see him walk into the room............................................................................................................................................................................................ Yeah, absolutely. I have tried to do so more and more in recent months. There's no other way to do that when you see what happened. In particular, in the past six months, just before the summer recess, this has also been more and more intense. I have, of course, seen that at some point the Secretary of State, 70%, 80% and ultimately 90% of his time, together with the Director-General of the Tax Administration and a lot of people around it, was really only working on one thing, namely everything that had gone wrong with the surcharges. I will say a great deal more in a moment about why we want to go on organizationally as proposed by the cabinet. For the official summit on finance and for me as Minister of Finance, it is clear what it meant and what it meant in the attention that was lacking during that period of administration and politics for customs and the tax administration, for example, which obviously also has major problems. I mean specifically blue. I mention this because I have done so much more in the background and in the ministry during the period behind us. I say immediately to Mr Bruins and to Mr Nijboer that I will of course continue to do so, obviously in consultation with the two State Secretarys, because of course I do not have to get in the way, but I would very much like to support them. Of course, some of these subjects also lend themselves to this dialogue. Take the research Menno Snel has quickly started on how to handle that bottleneck. He has set that in motion, but of course he and I have talked about it in detail. Those are such fundamental interventions in a ministry, even if you just announce the investigation to that effect, that you don't do that because you think in advance: what a strange idea. No, you do that because there is a considerable chance that that has been a sensible step forward. That is why Snel also said to me: let's look at that. I thought he was absolutely right about that. Mr Omtzig asked the Prime Minister and me what we learned yesterday. Of course, we've learned a lot from each of those parent conversations. The Prime Minister and I shared with the Chamber and, more importantly, with the parents that we really take that extremely seriously. Just people who are in a vulnerable position and therefore get very high surcharges.That is exactly the opposite of what you see in normal tax legislation. have come on a collision course with the government. The government has made huge mistakes in this respect. There's a lot more to be said about those classes. Following on from what the Prime Minister said, I would like to assure Mr Omtzigt that, on behalf of the Cabinet, the State Secretary will have a role in this before the summer recess with a letter on where we stand. I think it is appropriate to take into account some specific and what the metal lessons can be learned from what happened here. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the second block: how to proceed with CAF and the surcharges?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u253	Before you proceed, Mrs Leijten has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u254	It is not quite clear to me what this letter should be: where are we before the summer recess?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u255	I believe that Mr Omtzigt asked for two different issues in the debate with the Prime Minister. The first thing he asked for was a broader reflection: what are the lessons learned, how does the cabinet view what happened here? Of course, Snel has shared all kinds of pieces with the Chamber, and so has the Prime Minister, and so has I. But I understand him so much that he wants that to be more comprehensive and complete. That's the first thing I promise to do before the summer recess. The second thing Omtzigt asked is something else, but that's also relevant to say because the Prime Minister was looking at me too. Mr Omtzigt asked: can we, as a Chamber, get a status report where the cabinet stands with the various groups in the file? So where does the cabinet stand for the recess to the CAF 11? Where are we with all kinds of recommendations Donner's gonna come with? Where are we in many of the things that we have to sort out over the next few weeks? That was Mr Omtzigt's second question. I also want to answer his question with a yes and just share it with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u256	I think it makes sense for you to share something like that with the Chamber, because that's what forced the Chamber to do. But I really want us to make the deal that it's resolved before the summer recess. What the hell is it with all these court-martial arrangements? Why can't we just take steps? The Minister is doing well. He's announced an investigation into criminality. He's gonna look for those missing files or find out why they disappeared. He talks to the parents; he has already done that three times. But making court agreements? Couldn't the minister be a little more forward? Because he also shows this speed with his plans for the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u257	Let me give a little more colour to one question, which was also asked by Mr Nijboer, in relation to that year. Of course, we are going to do everything we can to solve the CAF 11 files, but also as many files as possible from parents who are already in sight before the end of this calendar year, preferably far before the end of this calendar year. That is quite separate from the question of how exactly this is going to happen, because that is what Donner is going to inform us about. I can say more about that. I just think it would be wise to repeat what I wanted to say earlier. What if it turns out it's really about thousands of people? Tens of thousands of hours of human time must then be put into files. We're going to do everything in terms of speed, but we're going to have to do this carefully. I've seen the struggle. I've been working on one thing in the Ministry over the past 80 percent, 90% of my time. Those were the surcharges, in an operational way that was really about the question of what the file looked like. I wanted to see the file myself so that we would not get the black polish drama again. There is so much work hidden in it that the more parents will have to be involved in Donner's vision, the longer it will take, especially if we want to do it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u258	I've seen those files, too, those black paint files. There are also white paint files. After they've gotten their file, all these people are gonna have a conversation with the IRS. It is quite quickly becoming very concrete what has happened, what is still open and what could be done. In my view, that is the essential information that should be available, and it will then be available in those talks. I therefore wonder whether the most effective and desirable way of building these files is to be achieved. Open a window somewhere where people can go with their own file! Often they have more of their own than is still available at the Tax Office. I think you can take the performance much faster. If it's complicated and if we see that people appear in CAF files or that they're set to zero for a number of years while it's about giga amounts, they could already get an advance so they can get air in their lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u259	Two comments. Firstly, Mrs Leijten is, of course, right. Fortunately, we have already been able to take a big step in the CAF 11 cases. Mrs Leijten could be on the verge of explaining to me that there is still more to be done, but fortunately we are in that dossier farther than in everything else that comes out of it. But I've also seen how incredibly difficult it turns out. See also the fulfilment of the commitment to the Chamber to pay out the CAF 11 parents for Christmas Eve. I have literally said: I want the lists every so many hours. I want the lists that say, do we know about these people yet if they have an account number? Do we know if these people are home yet? Did we check at the bank to see if the money wasn't bounced? That has proved necessary. I think it is forgivable and logical that you will not reach those who do not respond to anything, who are no longer registered in the Netherlands and who have a permanent residence or stay abroad. But it really took a lot of effort to arrange that before Christmas Eve, and yet I wanted to do so. There have hours and hours and hours from the top of the civil service, and also from me personally resident. It is right that it has happened, but it shows that this is not going to be easy. Which brings me to that point of those files. This is what I said to the parents yesterday, and they recognized it, by the way. If only there was a room, in Utrecht or at any tax office, where you could pull out a file about which you could say: this is complete. That's not how it works. That information comes from all kinds of files. That information must be assessed and information must, of course, be removed concerning the privacy of other parents. I said: there must be a letter of attachment, it must be understandable, it must be explained, it must be delivered in person and, and, and. That's what the Chamber got. I think that shows the enormous amount of work that still needs to be done, especially if that group turns out to be bigger than we think it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u260	I would perhaps like to ask the same question here as Mrs Leijten: what can I expect from this letter? I also understand the Minister's struggle very well, because you want to do it carefully. But of course we also want the information as soon as possible. Will the Minister return to the reorganisation at a later date?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u261	No, this reorganisation... sorry, I'm interrupting Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u262	And in what way is this reorganisation also involved in the state of affairs with, among others, the CAF parents?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u263	Since the 19th of December, I have said at Finance: I want us to communicate with the Chamber from now on. I hope the Chamber recognizes that. 'Cause I don't want us to have another discussion about black-painted files anytime soon. I want to be completely transparent. Moreover, the Secretary of State has done an enormous amount of work in this respect. Why, for example, did it go wrong with those black-painted files? Because he's put everything in the field of speed, with all the good intentions. But that shows that you also need to link that speed to care. So I'm going to continue to take the Chamber with what we do. And I'll tell that to the two new Secretary of State later. Now, go on taking the room with what we do and why we do things. In any case, I would like to make two commitments, regardless of any communication that will undoubtedly be available between now and the summer recess. The first commitment concerns the lessons learned requested by Mr Omtzigt. They're coming for the summer recess. And the second commitment concerns the moment of measurement six months later, if I may put it that way. Then where are we, by group, by file provided and, and, and, and, and, and?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u264	Clear. And the Minister will return to the reorganisation in a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u265	In my third block I will return to that, Mr. Chairman. I was just getting started on the second block of CAF and surcharges.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u266	And when is the second part of the Donner Committee's report coming? But this question may also fall a bit into both categories.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u267	I will come back to that in a moment, because that is what has been asked. That's what I checked, so I'll get back to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u268	I understand that it's all going to take a long time and those files are out of order. The problem I have with another year waiting for clarity is that that monster of government power always has a reasonable argument. One time it's the legal position, the other time it's: watch out, precedent. Then again, we can't just pull those files out of the closet in practice. That's all true. But eventually parents are ground...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u269	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u270	...by the government. The Prime Minister and also the Minister of Finance say that these people have been so incredibly hurt. I do not think it is acceptable to accept that it will take another year for these people to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u271	The first thing Mr Nijboer said, about that monster, is quite literary, but unfortunately it is. Let me go into this again, because it seems that I have not been clear enough myself. In that CAF 11 group we heard from Donner in December how to proceed. We have dealt with this much more quickly before 24 December as regards the amount, the compensation and the visit to people. Of course, we don't need a year to do that. In fact, it worked in a few weeks. With that the song of CAF 11 is not out yet, but a very important step has been taken. Of course, we are going to do everything we can to get together with everyone we have in our sights over the next few months and to look into the matter. We must, of course, base our efforts on Donner. The profit warning that I wanted to give is that if this group turns out to be bigger in a moment, it will be a very long journey, without prejudice to the fact that we are recruiting hundreds of people to address precisely these problems adequately. The ugliest thing, I think, is that it applies to everything and that is why I would rather be too careful now to make a promise that we are not going to keep as a cabinet or as a ministry, because that only gives the parents'see you', as you tasted yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u272	The misery is, of course, that the factor of time in public services is usually not so important. It must be properly established, sometimes after two or three years. But in a human life, children just get older and don't go to child care anymore. People may or may not stop working because they are uncertain whether they are still entitled to these allowances, or because they are even, unjustly, dismissed as fraudsters. There's my point: at that speed. We can now look up and collect endlessly stacks of files, take a year and turn everything inside out; then it is not complete again and we have that thing again. But the people are left with the worries and uncertainty. I ask the Minister not to accept in advance that it may last another year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u273	I very much agree with Mr Nijboer. Maybe I can give you one more indication. I said this morning that I want to hear back every day about the 200 people. We had 200 to 300 people coming by yesterday. We have said to these people: you will get a talk report, and somewhere in the next few weeks we will make an appointment with whoever wants to, in which we will not solve everything, but we will talk to you about the file. They don't all want that, but a lot of them do. I said this morning that I want it on a daily basis, and where it is not possible on a two- or three-day basis, on my desk, and later on at the office of the new Secretary of State. It just needs to be made clear where we stand with the calls. How many of the appointments are planned? What did it mean to the parents? It really has our unrelenting attention, but let's not overpromise. That's my only plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u274	Thank you for the commitments. I assume that before 1 June there will be a letter of reflection on where the responsibilities lie, how High Colleges of State now relate to the government and all the other lessons learned, the status review where we stand, and a report of that meeting, or how it stands with the consultation, whether it is a large meeting or a small one. The purpose of this is not extra paper, because paper and files are plenty here. The intention is that at that time much has been resolved and then hopefully we can talk about a number of things that have come up over time. Does the government share that as an objective, around the end of May?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u275	Yes, of course. Of course, there is no one who thinks: that is nice, then we have a letter and push the problem out again. On the contrary. I actually think, when I listen to Mr Omtzigt, that this is best suited to two different letters, because actually the status and the question of where we are in the files is really different from the question of what the government thinks. I'll give them both before the summer recess. That will also be a letter that we will look at more broadly in the cabinet. The Prime Minister and I are not just going to leave that to the new Secretary of State. I'll give you both before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u276	Thank you for having been promised this by both ministers and the two Secretary of State. That's very important in this file. Maybe I'm looking for too many nails on low tide, but I'm asking the government to make sure it comes a few weeks before the summer recess so we can talk about this. There's a tendency here sometimes, and the chairman knows what I mean...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u277	Yes, I know exactly what you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u278	...that it will be on the last day before the summer recess. But that's what I trust the government to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u279	We'll try. But I also foresee that if we send that too soon again... I really understand what Mr Omtzigt is saying. We're really gonna make sure that not the Thursday night before the recess the cabinet says: well, we did that neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u280	No, because the point is: if it is right before the recess, it will remain for two or three months and we will talk about it in the autumn, when this is urgent. That is what Mr Omtzigt means.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u281	I am going to repeat what I said earlier, and the new Secretary of State will feel the same about the recess that is to come. I said to Finance before the recess started: yes, listen, if it doesn't work for the 24th, then I'll be back in the ministry the next day and then we just don't go on vacation; this will be arranged, this has to be arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u282	Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u283	Yes, Mr. Chairman, along with this. There was specifically a list of things that we will be reported about. One of the motions that has been adopted concerns the status of fraudsters, which the group greatly attracted. You're right. You're gonna have to be on the books like this. The former Secretary of State has indicated that he understands what this means and is going to do with it. He said he'd get rid of that status as soon as possible. Maybe it can be included in the reports and the lists that come up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u284	Sure. That's an excellent suggestion. I immediately take a few things out of it, because those are things that are still in the set. What Mr Van Raan says is exactly... It is difficult for other people to determine what they think is most important. But that is one: the intangible misery that has often happened to her, which is not all related to this, but also often has to do with it. And two. That's exactly this stamp, part of which the parents say: I'm done with that money now and of course I'd love to, but take that stamp off my head, because I'm not. I think I have said enough about the really great operational task that lies ahead. Take the files. Take the enormous effort we have had to make to bring that information packaged into files to parents. Of course, that also says something about the extent to which we are in control at the moment in terms of surcharges. I shall now come to that in a moment with regard to the changes, but that is a clear indication. Mr. Chairman. I'll continue in block two. I had started doing that a lot. How to proceed with surcharges and with the CAF? And again, block 3 concerns the changes within the organization. Why Donner? That's the question I got from parents, and I understand it. I also understand that the Chamber is setting it up again. Because it adds objectivity, to do it honestly, to test it and to ensure that it is not arbitrary, that it is not a ruler who says yes to one and the other. That's why it's so important. That committee does that independently. In my opinion, it has done so to a very broad satisfaction in the CAF 11 case. The cabinet didn't take a millimeter off of that either. I would like to emphasise that. In fact, we did everything we could to speed up that payment. And let me also say: suppose that CAF 11 group was judged by Snel, Rutte or Hoekstra. Then, of course, the parents would have rightly said: that is not objective, because isn't that the butcher who approves his own meat? So I think that objectivity, however uncomfortable it may be that it takes a little longer, is very important. One of the important things that Donner needs to help is what I would like to call the term "triage" borrowed from the medical sector. Mrs Leijten also mentioned this in her first term. This is about making a difference between groups, where CAF 11 is very clear, where you would have other CAF issues, where you have problems with parents who have nothing to do with CAF at all and where sometimes we are talking about files from a long time ago, where there is quite a large group of parents who have gone into the sea with a cheating host parents' office, and because of that the rain has come down. That's the distinction between those groups. The stories yesterday were very wide, very diverse. That is exactly what we really need Donner's help with. Mr. Chairman. Mr Mulder of the PVV asked: what if criminal offences have been committed? Then it's perfectly clear. If criminal offences have been committed, they must be reported. Officials I am also obliged to report them if they themselves observe criminal offences. As I said, I am talking to the Minister of Justice, also in response to my commitment to the Chamber last week, to Mrs Leijten in particular. I will come back to that as soon as that is completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u285	First of all, I have a question about two points. The Minister indicated that at the moment there is an enormous amount of time and energy spent trying to get those documents together. I think he meant by that, but I wanted to check that he is not in control with that and that it is obviously not all very easy to organise ICT-technically and file-technically. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u286	No, I didn't. That's why I gave the comparison I gave to the parents: there's not a file you pull out of the closet like that. Because then I would understand that it could happen immediately or semi-immediately. That information, I understand, must come from all kinds of files, must then be checked. That's where we need to get the information that's about other parents. The privacy of other citizens must also weigh heavily on the state. A note should then be added: what can be read in it and how do we make it understandable? Someone needs to look into that file so that it can be put to the parents. It'll take time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u287	That's all right. That was just a test to see if that was true, because as early as 2009 McKinsey said that the information supply chain was just not right at that point and that things should be improved quickly. The conclusion is that at least this did not work equally well everywhere. My question concerns the establishment of the Donner Committee. I still do not understand why, if anything is said by a High College of State in 2007, that as far as I am concerned there is something different from even a committee set up by the government, the Minister says: with that in hand, we could make a more objective determination that really wrong things are happening here and on that basis we could, also for a little more support towards parents, show that we had to do something. Also in 2017 it was said in almost the same terms: go make that up to those parents, because here the Tax Administration/Applications has worked in a way that is not human and that has really put those people in enormous trouble. I don't understand. Why wait two years, set up a committee and then act?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u288	I'm going to make it worse: the path that leads to today is strewn with all kinds of things that you would have wanted to have handled completely differently. That is why I began by joining Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Nijboer, and perhaps it was Mr Azarkan himself, because of course it starts with this system. The warning of profit towards the future is also: it begins with the fact that, when this system was introduced, it was genuinely convinced that it was better than the system for the surcharges. And now, fifteen years later, look at this. Look at what this has done with small administrative errors that have subsequently led to 'you can repay tens of thousands of euros', to that endless correction and to everything that has gone wrong. Of course, we would have preferred to have mentioned this particular point earlier. You should have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u289	My question was much more specific than this. And before we go back to the Big Bang; I just have a very specific question. We have a renowned institute, a High College of State, which produces a report that says that things have gone fundamentally wrong here. It also says exceptionally: go correct that; get on with it! Although not only the officials were convinced that they were doing the right things, although sometimes supported by a statement by the Council of State but not always, I do not understand why we do not act within the government. I see that very often, but that we ask a committee to first examine what exactly happened, to form an opinion on it and then to do something about it, and then, probably years later, to have that committee reviewed and evaluated by another external committee. What has the Donner Committee brought other than that wonderful concept of 'institutional bias'? I looked it up. That's nothing but: I've made a distinction, because I see you and I think you're cheating and you're not. That's just making a distinction based on something I still don't know what it is. It's been established. Now go make that up to me. Why not get to work on the Ombudsman's ruling?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u290	I can only repeat what was said earlier by the cabinet: you would of course have liked those signals to be taken much more seriously. It just didn't happen, so what are you supposed to do with that? It really went wrong, I just say, again, to Mr Azarkan. What is our obligation? So what did we try to do in those last weeks of December? There was a ruling from an independent committee appointed by the previous Secretary of State, of which all the details, including scope, were shared with the Chamber. That committee makes a very clear statement: in the CAF 11 case there is institutional bias; cabinet, you have to pay back, you have to give that compensation, and then you have to proceed with that decision. What's the cabinet supposed to do? Like a hare, but also really like a hare, and carefully, make sure that is carried out. I think that's what we've been trying to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u291	Certainly, and at the beginning of my speech I said that I appreciate and congratulate the Minister on being on top of it from the start. And as far as I'm concerned, he's gonna have to do it even longer, because I feel like good things are happening; those parents are gonna see that they're finally gonna be treated the way they should have been treated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u292	Then I suggest... Oh, Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u293	I agree with the cabinet that we need the Donner Commission for the compensation scheme. We needed it for CAF 11 and we also need it for the next CAF business. We had a very specific question about that. There are parents who, despite all these elements of the compensation scheme, still feel that compensation is too low on good grounds. It is a broad-based wish of the Chamber not to say to those people: you can go to court. That's cold, that's cold, that's gotta be different. I do not think we in the Chamber have heard how the cabinet wants to deal with this. How is the cabinet going to communicate with those parents who may eventually need the judge? Maybe there's another way to do it. How's the Cabinet handling that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u294	Honestly, I thought there was a change of heart with the Chamber, but then perhaps I will do it in abundance. My observation is that it has been said that the decision must be at the end of this month, or after 28 January. At least a date has been mentioned at the end of the month. Then there is the so-called final decision. Not to be ruled out is what Mr Snels says, namely that part of the parents then say: but I do not think that this is sufficient in terms of compensation. Then the normal route, which we would find too cold, would be: you are free, but then you must make the corridor to the judge. I believe that the previous Secretary of State has already said that there should then be an independent appeal advisory committee, which will look into how to deal with this. So that's what we're gonna try to prevent. What I cannot rule out, let me be honest about this: at the very end, in each of those specific files, there are CAF 11 but also other, parents who still say: I do not think this compensates for the suffering that has been done to me. That can't be ruled out. So I can't make that promise. However, I can say that with those objections we are really going to try to do it in a different way than to make all the way to court.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u295	You will have the floor in a moment, Mrs Leijten, but the Minister was busy with supplements, can you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u296	Yeah, it had something to do with surcharges, Mr. Chairman. I'm still in block two. I have answered a number of questions, but a lot of questions have been asked, so I feel encouraged to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u297	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u298	Mr Snels asked about the state of compensation. I think I said something about what else is coming. 282 parents managed to pay that advance. I have just mentioned that out of the five parents who failed to pay, there are at least three without foreign address details. I also believe that two are resident abroad, but do not respond. It could be exactly the other way around, but it's in that category. By the way, I would like to say that the independent committee has said interestingly enough in that CAF 11 case too: the majority gets it, but there are also parents in that CAF 11 case who should not get it anyway. That's why I just mentioned the word "triage." That shows how complicated it is, because CAF 11 is the best proof of where it went fundamentally wrong with the government. Mr. Chairman. Another question from Mr Snels was how many parents have applied for access. More than 300 requests for a file have so far been received. I suspect that many of the parents who were present yesterday are partly in there and partly say: I want to have a conversation and I want to have it. I have already said a lot about the files and the information that is not in order. There was also a question about the objections. I think that was also a question from Mr Snels. He has certainly asked impressive questions for his work. That's what I'm talking about. He's always asked a lot of questions, and there were no less than usual. Let me put it this way. With regard to the so-called objections and the problems involved, I informed the Chamber on Friday that I did not have any documents on my desk suggesting that something went wrong with those objections, knowingly. But I also have to deal with members of your Chamber and with signals from the media and from parents saying: yes, but something did not go well there. We'll have to objectify it. It's the job of a lot of things like this. That goes for here, too. That is why I have informed the Chamber that I am discussing this with the ADR. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the statute of limitations. Donner's gonna help us with that, too. And if not, then that will be a next question where I or the new Secretary of State will again seek objectification. That's what I'm supposed to do. Mrs Leijten asked about the 1,500 reports. She handed over the red and black folders. I think some of it's already come to the Ministry, but we're just gonna go through with those clappers. I think I have answered Mr Nijboer's question about one year. Mr Azarkan referred to the tunnel vision in his question. It is quite clear that this has happened. I hope that Mr Azarkan will also see that, under the previous Secretary of State, we have really taken a new path. The way in which lessons can be learned from this is reflected in the letter I have just promised Mr Omtzigt. Mr. Chairman. Then there was the question: what about the Donner Committee? Are we gonna get that date? That's a fair question. We just asked our officials. Luckily, they anticipated that, too. They contacted the Advisory Committee today. From this we get the signal that we are working very hard to meet the deadline, but also that it is a lot of work and must be done carefully again. On the one hand, that is reassuring, but on the other hand, it seems that the work is not yet finished. So in a day or two or three I will ask again what the situation is. I would like to stress that it is an independent committee that should be able to do so carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u299	Donner II would come for old and new. Then Donner would come in the second half of January. Then it became the end of January. And now we hope as soon as possible. If it takes so long, the Minister can simply take a decision and say: the limitation period is off; if people have been treated unjustly as they have been treated, then at least we are not going to increase the limitation period in order not to grant all that unjustly repaid money. That requires a political decision. You say: we should not wait any longer for that committee, because it takes too long with that committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u300	I understand this question. Eventually everything becomes a political decision, but I also think it is very important to get that objectification. It would therefore be nice if things were to go exactly as we think they are now, namely before the end of this month. After all, this month is not over. But what if the Donner Committee says that she still needs another week or two weeks to do so? This is hypothetical, but I'm telling you anyway. I'm not allowed by the Prime Minister to answer hypothetical questions. I'm allowed to answer these. Then the path of care for all of us, and certainly for the cabinet, is still the right one, especially in this sensitive dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u301	The Minister is now acting so politically. He's just been explaining in detail what he's done, for which I've already complimented him, but he keeps getting back on this. In Donner I there's just been broken with the statute of limitations. Several parents received money back over 2012 and 2013. So that was outside the statute of limitations. Nothing stands in the way of this minister saying: we are going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u302	I must nevertheless refer to my previous reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u303	It's even the IRS...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u304	Mrs. Leijten...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u305	...who in conversations with parents says: "We will write for you the letter you can submit to the court. We won't argue. We will agree to the statute of limitations." Because the Minister is not clear here and he is afraid to make political choices, he is actually sending all these parents back to court. You can't do that in this file. That's not allowed in this file. Just make that decision. It's possible. You know, the tax authorities even apply for a preventive limitation period when people have a tax debt. So they do it themselves. Take the political decision here, also for the Tax Administration and all those people from the Tax Phone that day in, day out, getting those phone calls, that that statute of limitations goes off, ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u306	I think I should refer again to my previous reply. There really is no one on the cabinet's side who is going to want to get rid of the Donner Committee's report. I am not talking about the statute of limitations, which the government says: we need more clarification and more objectification for that, precisely because it does not want to be arbitrary in this matter, precisely because it is important for the people that it should be done objectively. That can't be ruled out either. Then maybe we'll ask Donner another set of questions. But he will answer this piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u307	This is what the Minister of Finance, who let his muscles roll, for which I congratulated him, announces a follow-up investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u308	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u309	Don't you think you're gonna lose heart?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u310	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u311	Donner knows damn well what it's about. We all know what this is about. It has already been said that people are not fraudsters. People have unjustly had to repay money over many years: €14,000, €18,000, €67,000, €125,000. They want to know if they're gonna get that back. If there's a piece in there they're not entitled to, they'll understand. But they want to know if that statute of limitations goes off. You shouldn't answer now and announce another investigation. We're not gonna do that tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u312	Again, I say this with great appreciation for everything Mrs Leijten, Mr Omtzigt and many others in the Chamber, one lawyer in particular, and many others have done to get this case where it is today. There is, of course, no one who thinks: let us try to move it away and make it small and make it disappear from sight. What would be the reasonableness or logic of that? This is not in line with what Menno Snel has been doing day and night over the last few months and what the Prime Minister and I have been doing. So, yeah, we're gonna do that, but I'm really gonna make a plea for that objectification.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u313	On that point, I would like to ask for a little more detail. The first report of the Donner Committee was very precise on a personal level, on who and who would not be entitled to compensation in the CAF 11 case. That was almost everyone, not everyone; the Minister was right to say so. Now comes the second Donner report; we still assume that will come this month. I understand there's the same accuracy in that, don't I? Because that also allows us to act very quickly afterwards. I may come to the other groups in my follow-up question, because I can already see the Minister eagerly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u314	I hope so. The previous Secretary of State, of course, also spoke with Donner about this assignment. I have been in contact with Mr Donner, but I do not think and I do not think it is a good idea to go in there beforehand, because I also want him to be able to do so objectively. That's why I was transparent. I can understand why Mrs Leijten would say, "What do we hear?" But I'm just transparent about it. The more you are working on this, that will be the experience of Members of Parliament, and that is also my experience, the more new questions arise about things that are unclear and that need to be regulated, places where the Tax Administration has dropped and files that appear to be missing. Then you see what I've been doing for the past two weeks alone, with the whistle-blower arrangement, building on a Chamber wish, and the search we've been undertaking for the trusted people that Snel has been working on. There is also the question about the criminal law side of last week and last Friday, where it simply does not make it clear what these objections are about. There are clear signals from the outside world, but no indication on my desk. So you have to take a follow-up step, prudent and balanced. That's what we're trying to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u315	I'm actually trying to walk by a total of four groups that I've distinguished in my head to see what we can expect at what point. Of course, the Donner Committee must give its opinion in total independence. This also means how quickly it can be resolved for that group, for those who are entitled to the compensation. However, I am looking for the exactness of that advice on the people who were in all other CAF cases, because that is what this second report of the Donner Committee does when it was in the first opinion. So I am not asking you to anticipate the content. I just want to know how exactly that's going to be and if there's a view of it. I did not actually receive an answer to that question, apart from what the Minister has done. The second question is as follows. The Audit Service is looking in particular at the people in Mrs Leijten's black book, insofar as those things were already there at the time. Does the Minister estimate that this is also done at a personal level? The fourth group are often people, thousands, who have then independently reported that its additions via Mrs Leijten and the black book. Then how is that objective test done there? Because if this has been done objectively at person level, compensation can then be paid very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u316	I think Mr Van Weyenberg is getting at the heart of the matter. Because especially at the beginning, when it comes to the extension of the CAF cases, that's where the Donner................................................................................................................................................................................................. It's already getting more complicated with things from a longer past, because by the nature of the casuistics you just encounter a lot of different things. See the discussions and discussions we had yesterday. In these cases there are simply very different cases, which may be in a category five or six, which are still next to Mr Van Weyenberg's four. But let me just be very clear about one thing. If the second Donner report is to respond to a number of categories and there are clearly categories that we are concerned about, then that will have to be done. There's no one who thinks, "Well, you weren't in the report, so we'll close up now." Of course, that wouldn't be possible. You shouldn't be. You shouldn't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u317	Sure. I understand that it will be more difficult for the Minister to mention an exact moment for new cases and as the groups grow. For this purpose, the Minister used the profit warning "it may take a year" before, no matter how annoying he was.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u318	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u319	I know. I think we all have a stomachache from that. But I am looking for an answer to the question of how the Minister, who says that it is necessary for an independent party to do so, then for all those groups who are not in Donner, let us assume for a moment that it does happen there. And when will we, as a Chamber, hear how this approach becomes? Because that really says something about the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u320	It's a fair question. My proposal to the Chamber would be to include the cabinet's suggestion, the cabinet's solution on how to deal with it, if it were necessary because Donner would not have a map, in response to that report. I can't imagine any other way, let me be clear about that than that the new Secretary of State will again look for the way of objectification there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u321	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u322	I am looking for the cabinet at the shortest possible time, without it being able to give the exact deadlines. I regret that, but do understand how this objectification takes shape on those other groups. I would like to have an idea of this, of the groups that are not in Donner. Let us assume that, otherwise it will become even more complicated because we will have to do something extra earlier. That is, of course, something many parents, at personal level, would like to know: when exactly will my case be dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u323	Yes, I agree. Mr. Chairman. I had arrived at Mrs Lodder's justified question on a large subject: how to proceed with the system? To be honest, I am very happy with the motion unanimously adopted to come up with variants for how we should proceed with the system as a matter of principle. I think that many people think: well, the main thing is not to go further with the system; it has to be fundamentally different. In my view, therefore, there are even more cases for this Secretary of State in addition to all operational matters. I'm going to say more about that, but that also shows why it's such an incredible amount of work. There are the regular fees. That's one. We just need to make sure that goes well. We are constantly avoiding people to solve the incidents. Two is to do justice to parents. We're gonna recruit hundreds of extra employees for that. Three is: what adjustments can you make within the system that solve problems but which do not mean that you are still going on for years? Four is then: what are the contours of a new system, or new systems? Political parties are likely to make different considerations about this. That is what she will have to do, in consultation with, for example, the Minister for Social Affairs, but certainly wider in the cabinet, so that parties can find some of that in the run-up to the elections. Mr Van Weyenberg already referred to it. This will undoubtedly be re-established at the formation. Mr Van Raan asked whether the costs incurred by parents for legal assistance would be compensated. At CAF 11, a compensation scheme has been established. The way things are going with the others remains to be seen. Mr Omtzig asked about his list of 22 bottlenecks. Can we formulate a policy on this? Yeah, we're working on that, too, not to say, keep busy. I will also make sure that the Chamber is informed. I wouldn't want to go through all 22 of them right now. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Omtzig asked about the five years and the recovery. To be honest, I would really like to take this back in detail and in writing, but what I understand is that that period is basically five years, but that the limitation period is interrupted again in the event of a change in income. That means that the deadline can be extended. But I will still put it on paper, precisely because of the technique and the need of the Chamber to get a crystal clear signal. Mr. Chairman. Mr Snels asked about the interim-dg. I would very much like to endorse what the Prime Minister has just said about this, but I will say a few things about it. In November, a few people were asked to give advice, without knowing what the world looks like today. Those people with great integrity and very hard work have looked very widely inside and undoubtedly outside of Finance. They've done it completely independently. We then had a discussion about this and finally a final report was produced, which was shared with the Chamber, as I see it. In addition, we simply need clearly qualified heavyweights at the highest level at the top; see also my comments on how the service parts are operating under pressure. And frankly, I think that it is only profit if it is someone who has been able to take a run in the last few months and who has not added or removed anything from the report in any way whatsoever and has been approached afterwards. Otherwise it would have been someone who had come all the way from the outside in anticipation of the real new dg. Well, you can, but honestly, I thought it was a pre rather than a counter. I will of course also be advised by the ABD and by the top officials in my ministry. Mr. Chairman. Another question from Snels was whether the ADR and Donner have access to information from the fraud committee. I believe that the Donner Committee and the ADR will have access to all the documents presented to the Council of Ministers and to the Ministerial Committee on Fraud. But the ministerial minutes are state secret. So one thing is and the other one isn't. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u324	Yeah, what were you gonna say?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u325	I thought I'd see something from a corner of the eye. I'm moving on. That's what you taught me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u326	Well, that's up to me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u327	We discussed the statute of limitations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u328	No, I shall give the floor to Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u329	I myself, and I believe that others have done so, have explicitly asked for the advice and how the advice and appointment of the interium-dg came about. Let me say right away that I am satisfied with the Minister's reply as regards the appointment of the interim DG. That's how it's supposed to happen. I just have the Minister to trust, and I do. My comments stem from the content of the opinion. The Minister will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u330	I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u331	I have doubts about that. That is why I am asking how the opinion was drawn up. I think it was the case that an opinion was requested in November. Originally, a first partial report would only come in April and a final opinion would not be available until the summer. When you see the timetable and the mix, it raises questions for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u332	We hope we've made that right. Thank you, too, for Mr Snels' confidence. I'll tell you more in a minute. When you see what has happened, it is very logical in itself that as a cabinet and minister of finance you wonder what is needed to give the next Secretary of State/State a reasonable chance of success and to ensure that from day one they will not really be engaged exclusively with fees, surcharges and surcharges and then only with the piece that is about solving the misery of everything that has gone wrong. Again, I'm going into so much more detail about that. We have had to deal with a Secretary of State who was working on 70%, 80% or 90% of his time and with a Director-General responsible for 30,000 people and three departments, each with very substantial changes, in particular the Fees and the Tax Administration. It was supposed to go up So the price of doing nothing is huge. Mr. Chairman. I'll finish the block on the surcharges myself. I think we've done a lot of interrupting. Mr Omtzigt asked about the Ombudsman and the documents. The Ombudsman deals with the publication of his own inquiry and thus with the documents underlying it. If it were the case that documents from the Tax Administration play a role in this, then I really should check which ones are and what can or cannot be shared of them. I suggest that I should at first simply contact the Ombudsman to see how that should be done as far as he is concerned and why he may or may not have made a certain assessment. Mr Van Weyenberg and, I thought, Mr Azarkan asked about the AP's report on ethnic profiling. I haven't spoken to the AP in the last few weeks. I haven't heard from them either. That is where we are dealing with our own agenda. But I'll ask you to contact the AP to see if there's anything you can share about the timeline. Donner's done. I'm at the third block now, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u333	We're about to talk about the structure. I had asked a specific question about the project organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u334	Yeah, I got it right here. I was gonna take it with me, but I can do it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u335	Yeah, that's about the organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u336	I think this is a little bit separate from how we're going to organise it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u337	Yes. Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u338	Is that what you're getting at?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u339	No, I'd better do that right now. I kept that question, but it actually floats between blocks two and three, you might say. We've already started bringing in dozens of extra people. Some of them come from the regular Tax Administration. We have the complicated task of recruiting hundreds of people in the coming period. At a time when there are 9 million people at work in the Netherlands, I believe, and so more people than ever have a job, we have not only had to bring those people in, but also have to train them adequately, precisely because you want them to be able to operate properly. So that's really going to be a really big job. That is precisely the reason why we also need a strengthening at the summit, with an interim Dg Increases, which should also be monitored. Because in a moment you have a very big club regular, but also a very big club that is busy with all those things that I let me be completely honest with you also sits micromanaging.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u340	This could be about hundreds of people, I think. And of course it depends on the number of people. Surcharges are now a kind of bulk process, and you have to do all this at person level. I assume that the Minister will come back to the question as to why he chose to get the bonuses, say the regular work, and this project organisation about solving the surcharge affair, in one hand. I think that's how it's gonna be with the organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u341	Then let me do it right away, Mr. Chairman. He means at official level, I think. Let me also say something about politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u342	Yes, at the official level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u343	Well, of course you could break that up. But what Mr Van Weyenberg will recognize is that many things that play in the regular process, in one way or another, contain lessons and clues as to how to deal with the new project organisation. So, how do we imagine the structure? You'll soon have a column regular, actually what's there right now, and a column for solving all the files, the CAFs, and whatever else comes out behind it, with a head as well, and above it a, now, interim-dg, but eventually a fixed dg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u344	Yeah, okay. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u345	Now I have some questions about why out of these two types or variants, which I think you could have done both, now has been chosen for this one. But I'll save it for the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u346	Fine. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u347	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I have one more question to answer. I can also list them, so that they may come to the end of the first term. I'd like to know about that timeline when it's coming. That's what the motion is for. We've had a flowchart.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u348	Mr. Chairman. We talked about multiple timelines. Can Mr Omtzigt tell us what timeline he means?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u349	When which decision was taken in the CAF 11 cases. That is a motion for a resolution which has been adopted. That ended with a flowchart of one page, but it was precisely when a particular method of action started, when it ended, who made the decision and when who knew it was happening. This question continues to fall everywhere, because ADR is not included, even though the Chamber asked it to take that question of responsibility. And at the click, only the letter came. And the overview of the Chamber letters I had already made myself. That was already very complicated, but it was precisely when the decisions were taken that mattered to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u350	Is this clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u351	Including, I say, because in the answers it occurred that the Secretary of State must have been Secretary of State Wiebes in 2016 or 2017 informed about the problems. We'd like to see those documents. They should be in that overview; the date and what he was informed about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u352	Well, this is really a huge question, so I can't start an answer in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u353	No, but I don't expect an answer either...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u354	But frankly, this is, of course, the part of the search that the Secretary of State, and many of them also officially, have tried to pull out of the water. And Mr Omtzigt also knows how difficult that is. Could I agree with him that he is also asking this question in writing? Then we'll see which parts we can answer within what time frame. But if I listen to him carefully, it's really a "what happened when?"-question about a very large period of time, which I am now very acutely thinking about: how can you formulate a start of an answer to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u355	There's an accepted chamber motion. I would like to ask a set of questions about the important pieces I would like to have; I do not mind that. But that motion just needs to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u356	I don't want to take anything away from that either. The alternative is that I want to be informed about this motion and see where we stand with it. But I'm just trying to do justice to the question and be realistic about what I think I can do. But let's make a deal, I'll inform the Chamber. Then I will keep the initiative to myself for how to deal with this motion and what we think we can deliver by when. Perhaps I can arrange that with Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u357	Yes, and the same goes for the motion on legal protection. It's been there since March. It was clear: a research assignment needs to be formulated. That it is not there today, I understand that, but it would happen in two months and we are now ten months away. The question is whether it can just be in the Chamber within a week or three or four.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u358	On that motion I or the new Secretary of State will return sometime in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u359	I understand that, but I didn't ask for that set in writing for nothing either. The third point concerns staff, those two. I asked if the Minister would like to get in touch with the trade unions and the trade unions. For the last seven years no whistleblower has come forward and has been recognised. Only whistleblowers were fired. So the urge to report is not particularly great. At Justice and Security there was a similar problem. There a bipartite committee has been set up with the trade unions where people dare to report. My question is whether you would like to enter into consultation with the trade unions to see if there is a way in which they also feel that the people they know are willing to come forward, because I think this is very important for confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u360	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u361	We'll find out what's coming out of there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u362	Yes. Then I'm gonna go over time and see who does what, but I'm gonna make sure that happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u363	I had the same question about the timeline, so I'd like to join in. I hear the Minister say it's very difficult. My follow-up question is then about the Audit Service Empire. It will come up at the end of the month with a report on who, when within the administration and political leadership knew that there had been unlawful acts. That's based on verifiable information from the IRS. In reply to GroenLinks' question, it has just been said that this Audit Service has no access to the reports that have been upgraded to state secret. What are we to expect from this report by the Audit Service of the Empire when it is so difficult to create a timeline, in relation to verifiable information from the Tax Office, where complete files are missing and they do not have access to the documents declared to be state secret?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u364	I'm a little more optimistic. My experience is that in terms of depth and width, the ADR really goes up until the hole in the surface of information. Also the documents that have been submitted to ministerial councils and ministerial committees if there are relevant things, are often included in the scope and within the possibilities that one has. The only exception to this is matters falling within the category of state secret. This applies to the minutes of the Council of Ministers. My impression is not really true. I refer also to the Prime Minister's reply of just now that it would deprive essential information of the ADR. So I would just like to reassure you a little bit that I really think it will be wide and deep. Where people think that they need more or that they want something else out of the closet, they will let me and the Chamber know. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the follow-up steps at the IRS. I deliberately do not speak of reorganisation and I will explain in a moment why. I understand a lot of the questions that have been asked by the Chamber, precisely because they are also the questions that Menno Snel and I have asked us over the last nine months and which we have asked ourselves as a cabinet and which are of course very relevant to this course of events. I would like to emphasise a few things briefly from the first two parts of the debate. The previous Secretary of State has been working on nothing but this. The official top of the core department, including the regular Ministry of Finance, and of the Tax Administration, has been doing almost nothing but this in recent months. This is a real problem both in political accountability here and in managing organisations of around 30,000 people in total. I would like to add a few words to that, and I would like to mention it here as well. There are three parts and actually there are four, because of course I do count with the FIOD, but that is not the issue in the discussion. There are three parts I would like to name separately. First of all, we have Customs. Some MPs have said: you can isolate them the easiest. I agree. That's true, but still a little bit about customs. There are many regular tasks. That's where the Brexit comes in. That is a huge task. I've heard a long time with the group that thought: I hope the Brexit doesn't come. But we have also always said: count on it to come and prepare for it. There's a huge change of heart there. For all those who are looking at the enormous problem we have in this country with organized crime, it must be crystal clear that our port is not only the hub for Europe as the largest port in Europe for all the regular goods, but also the turntable for the import of cocaine and the export of amphetamine crystal meth, xtc and so on. This means that customs has a major task to do in terms of enforcement and crime, but customs also has to do in terms of undermining. Anyone who thinks that we actually have a rather quiet period in customs might be deceived. There's a hell of a change there. Two: surcharges. It is obvious to everyone, I think, that there is a problem there. That is being worked on day and night at the most operational level; so am I, with the knock-on hand, and with lists, and I ask: can I know how many people have been called? It occasionally has something of the praise of foolishness, but it is how it should be now. That says something about the amount of work left. And then three: the IRS. The IRS is simply the coronary artery of the government. Without tax authorities, without effective and fair tax collection, there is no money for schools, for roads, for police officers and so on. We have talked less about it in recent months, because the issue of surcharges has been so clearly targeted, but the challenges for the Tax Administration, regardless of what goes well, are extremely great. See the IT, see what Ernst & Young and others have written about it. There's also a huge change of heart there. See what needs to be done widely in the field of culture. See also those very specific pieces of files that we have also discussed here before, such as inheritance and gift taxes, but there are probably more pieces that are under pressure. That makes it very important for me to come up with a broader plan of action. All of the good work for that was done by Menno Snel. That's what I'm saying again. I'm gonna walk those bits one by one now. IT. The report and the change order have been initiated by Snel. I sent it to the Chamber, but it is a much longer journey, in which it is far too slow. As far as management information is concerned, I will be honest about that. We send in the dark because obviously necessary information just isn't there. Quickly, a gear has started, but we're chasing the facts. A lot has been said about culture by Menno Snel. I put that in the letter. The whistleblower and a few small things are new, but actually he's the one who's really given the move to change. Also with the Tax Telephone, Snel has been very focused. I have to say the following, despite everything he has done and despite the fact that we have added additional people to it. In all those conversations with those parents I just heard people saying: I called a hundred times last year, I had eighty different people on the phone and I heard seventy times that I was going to be called back tomorrow. So it's gotta be different. Those are the things that really are almost entirely in line with what Menno Snel has done. What Menno Snel has done quickly, of course in consultation with me, concerns this so-called unbundling. But that's about the unbundling at the top. That's about the bottleneck, politically but also administratively. There is a real need for broadening and tightening up. I'm going to say more about it, but then you have to be completely pragmatic about what to do with each of those documents within the Tax Administration/Applications. On that point, I very much agreed with Mr Nijboer. What do you think belongs to one or the other? Where do you think you might need a haircut? Where do you think you should leave it alone for a while, but just improve content first, because doing something fast is your biggest enemy? That's exactly why it's about that bottleneck now. We have to do something about that. Then we really need to look pragmatically at the rest. On that bottleneck, we applied a gear. But that too was already in Menno Snel's case. In fact, you could say that the most new and politically obvious is the choice, primarily of the coalition, but in dialogue with the cabinet and, in particular, the two of us, for two State Secretarys, which I really think is very well-balanced and sensible of the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u365	How far along are you with the last piece?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u366	It's an end, but it's not halfway there, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u367	I need to think about what you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u368	I'm looking at the leaves. I thought it would help to address some of the questions in the front. Quite a lot of things I think I can get through at a fairly high pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u369	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u370	You're in charge of order, so I'll settle for every style I have to use.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u371	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u372	I specifically have a question about the Tax Phone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u373	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u374	I think it is a good thing that this is being investigated. It shouldn't be nice to work there, either. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance: how many seconds do Tax Phone employees have after a final conversation to report and follow up on what has been discussed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u375	I don't know. I know things aren't going well enough for a long time. There's one thing I think I know is going significantly better. That is the specific number set for the group of parents we spoke to yesterday. That's what the Prime Minister called yesterday, and I called it earlier. Because you just want to know that it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u376	The answer is 12 seconds. And after 18 seconds, the next phone call comes through. If you're going to investigate the Tax Phone, don't do it because of all the consulting agencies we've seen coming a hundred times, but do it with the Tax Office staff. They know exactly what is needed to make their work better, and that also makes the service more optimal for the people who call.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u377	Sure. I would very much like to agree with that. To be honest, however, this applies to everything else that we decide to do in the area of depilation. Let me say this, too. I've seen dozens of reorganisations in earlier stages of my life and the most important thing I've got left of the classic reorganisation is this: if it's not really necessary, you shouldn't do it, because it's a huge waste of time. We're gonna do something here that's also essentially different. We're looking for a broadening of the bottle neck, politically and highly-officially. Next, I think we can all see that Customs is really something other than Supplements and the Tax Office. In addition, we see that, at the end of the day, we want to move towards a new system with each other. I think this is a sensible way to go. Suppose you had waited until in four or five months I would say that in defense of this cabinet plan and one Secretary of State had begun, exactly in line with Menno Snel. Then within the shortest time it would have been exclusively engaged, along with its dg, on the playing field on which Menno Snel was also on. Then 80% to 90% of the time would have been in the process of answering the legitimate questions of the Chamber about what went wrong. And the IRS, the government's coronary artery, had not received sufficient attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u378	There is a short question from Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u379	Let me join you in the Minister's metaphor. We're just talking about Supplements and the IRS. That's just the bottle and the bottle neck is in charge right now. The Minister then says: I create several bottle necks or a wider bottle neck. Several bottle necks, I would say. I'm just looking for the answer to two questions. One: how do you determine who has the tasks, responsibilities and powers under them and what are they? So what exactly are you talking about, and on what basis? Two: how do they relate to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u380	That is a perfectly legitimate question. The starting point is of course that the dg Tax Administration and tax in the first place is all IT, about the Tax Phone et cetera. That's crystal clear. And then... But again, I am going to do exactly as Mrs Leijten says, namely by listening to the people themselves and by looking at the advantages and disadvantages of one place and another place. I think the default answer is going to be very often: stick to the Tax Administration itself, precisely given what we want in the future with Fees. If you would think you would have to split it up, I should be careful, then of course it is also the question of what is the right time for that. So the most important thing I said is: this is not a classic reorganisation; I'm looking forward to it. That is what I said to the entire official summit of the Tax Administration, which I brought to me at the beginning of the week after Christmas. I think that was Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u381	This sounds sensible and followable, at least for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u382	Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u383	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to make a few specific commitments. I really think that the Chamber and I are very much on the same side of the playing field here. Several Members asked if I would be willing to take an execution test on what you do want to hang or split. Absolutely, I'll tell you immediately. Are I prepared to examine and share with the Chamber the evidence that the three directors would decide on and the risks that Mr Van Weyenberg asked for in particular? Absolutely. This applies to the justification, but also to the risks. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of the need for two State Secretarys and the lead of the then forming and now coalition parties. It goes without saying in dialogue, because that is how we do it in this country. That is how it is, as I think I have sufficiently emphasised. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u384	Don't look at the MPs!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u385	I'll try to look only at the leaf in front of me. Then you'll turn me upside down that I've shown very little interaction. We have been asked how the decision-making process has gone. This really didn't happen overnight. The Secretary of State and I have reciprocated and weighed on this at an earlier stage. He finally announced it, but it is really something we have done in dialogue. I brought the cabinet with me in that gear, and that's how it's supposed to be. I hope I have been able to explain what we are going to do, what I think is really sensible, and what we are not going to do for the time being. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered Mrs Lodder's question about dealing with services that are needed for everyone. I very much agreed with what Mrs Lodder said: do not rush things. Mr Nijboer said something similar. Absolutely. No one would have helped with that at all. Mrs Lodder's question as to whether this is Columbus' new egg, I understand rhetorically. No, of course not. Of course, this is not the only thing that helps when it comes to the problem of supplementing. But if you see the struggle of recent years in my house, the number of Secretary of State and Directors General that we have worn out, the unevenness of the service parts and the inability of the playing field at the top, then this is really necessary. I think I should ask Mr Snels' question: why not wait any longer? I've answered your question. I hope I reassured Mr Bruins that this is not a large organisation. This is step one. Step two will be explicitly engaged in dialogue with the Chamber. That step is up to the directors, all three of them, and the official summit in consultation with the people in the organization. I certainly won't stay away from that. I did the risk analysis. Mr. Snels asked about the dates. Of course, there have been more signals. We've been interviewed. Mr Snel was also interviewed. Then there is a first version and then a final report. That is exactly what I think is right, and I think it is very important that I do not go down in that report as a ruler. I have to relate to the report at the end. What happens next is up to me. Together with other members of the cabinet, I am politically responsible for this. Mr Nijboer asked about the ICT problems. The ICT problems faced by the Tax Administration are to a large extent described in those not happy reports from EY and KPMG. They show that virtually everything in the ICT field is very complicated and has all kinds of repercussions for what we still want in the system in terms of renewal. Mrs Lodders asked about cultural change and how it relates to the reorganisation. I very much agree with everyone who says: it is a lot of things at once. It's about the direction you want to go out with each other. It's about human size. It's about culture, how you treat each other. It's about better processes. It's about being approachable to behavior. Structure is only a very small part of that. To be honest, this culture is one of the most important things we need to change; see also what Snels has said about it before. A Secretary of State for Tax and Policy has also been asked. Let me do the Chamber a disenchantment. Because of the questions asked by Van Rooijen and others, I started to think about that variant. In dialogue with the previous Secretary of State, but also with the official summit, I myself have come to the conclusion that it is a good thing that we did not make that choice. That would have been the wrong choice, because that would have inevitably led one State Secretary to want to get into the business of taking a grip on the flight tax or tackling tax avoidance or just call it an arbitrary issue. Then he would have come directly into conflict with the other Secretary of State, who would say, "Listen, I can't handle that." So that would have been a really wrong choice. But I'll be honest, I've also thought about that variant and discussed it with people. But the choice we're making now is the better one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u386	I see some interruptions. But I think you're almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u387	Almost done, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u388	Then you'll have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u389	Mr Stoffer asked if the evaluations would come to the Chamber. I don't see Mr Stoffer right now. Oh, he's been sitting somewhere else. I will certainly share those evaluations, but frankly I would like to agree with the new directors that we always include the Chamber when we make a choice as I have just explained it, for example with regard to the Tax Telephone. Because as much as this really is something from the Ministry itself, at this stage I think that makes sense. Mr Stoffer also asked about the cultural change. Of course, it must also take place in the workplace. That is ultimately where the work takes place and where the interaction with the citizen takes place. We all have a role to play in this, up to the political summit. In such things you also try to play a positive role with your attitude and behavior; see also the past few weeks. I have promised Mr Omtzigt that he will talk to us. I think I've answered the PVV's question about criminal offences. Mr Snels is quite right to say that we are talking about millions of households, so do it wisely and carefully. Absolutely. At the same time, we see that this system, on which millions of Dutch people depend, has to be fundamentally different in that new structure. Mrs Van Kooten asked about abuse of power and responsibilities. I think I answered that question in the previous block. That makes me not so much at the end of my Latin as at the end of this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u390	I shall begin by looking at Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u391	This all happened pretty fast. I think three quarters of my input, a lot of questions I asked, was precisely about this reorganisation. Who's responsible for what? In the factual answers we only got the answer that those three dgs are going to fight that out. That's exactly where I care. So I'm a little hesitant about what question to start with...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u392	Well, you know very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u393	Shall I try to help Mr. Snels? I will not repeat it all, but I think it is now absolutely clear what we are going to do at this stage. I think I have also given a very clear answer to Mr Van Weyenberg's question as to how the responsibilities lie here and now. I realize that I forgot to mention one piece to the Chamber, namely how exactly the division of tasks between the two political leaders in the Ministry is going to be. The main contours are of course quite clear, because one will deal with the Tax Administration and taxation and the other will deal with Fees and Customs. However, I do think it is fair that, at the time the directors are sworn in, the Prime Minister as a revival reformer informs the Chamber what the portfolio distribution looks like. I think it's nice to do it this way, also because I'm not the first to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u394	I asked a lot of questions. Which dg/secretary is responsible for communication? What is responsible for legality and legal certainty? Which one for ICT? What kind of cultural adaptation? These are all questions in which, in my view, the unbundling of Fees and Taxes is not possible and with which there are major problems. The only answer I got is: that's what the three DGs are gonna figure out with each other. That's my big concern. I understand the broadening, both administrative and political. There's a lot to say for that. And I'm really an amateur and that's not good either. But when I look at this as an amateur, commenting on the cabinet's plans, I say: you really have a big problem with the legacy of the past. There will be a separate project organization. That is where we have to solve all these surcharges, and what we are all going to get next year. The former Secretary of State and the former Dg 90% of their time were lost. Why didn't you put that aside? You'd still have one dg for the IRS, and one dg for Customs. Then you would have had a very clear line of responsibility, and you wouldn't be organizing a horizontal unbundling. I fear that now three DGs, and also two Secretary of State, are going to have to fight every day about what they're about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u395	It's really different. It will depend on the quality of my answers, including in this debate. Let me make one more relative remark. There are so many policy areas in the Netherlands where several directors are involved and have a shared responsibility. That's true in ministries. But please take Supplements and Weyenberg's very fair question. He says, "Where did this come from?" How did the performance end up here in this movie anyway? That has to do with this legislation. So this Secretary of State will soon have a very fundamental and leading role in the discussion about the new supplement scheme. But that too will not be possible without taking into account what the Minister of Social Affairs thinks about it, which others consider responsible for the various supplements. So I'm really saying to be relativistic: that's not unique. Mr Snels asks for precise detail. Who's what? I'll ask the Prime Minister to include those exact questions in that letter. I will ask him to include it in that letter wherever there would be any ambiguity in the political portfolio distribution. We are also talking about the FIOD, about the Mint, about two state holdings that the previous Secretary of State mentioned in his portfolio. We're all gonna do that nicely. But that's not up to me. And in this administrative division of labour, it's really clear. It is clear that the primacy at this stage lies with the DG for the Tax Administration and Taxation. So if it doesn't belong to Customs, or evidently to Fees, it's just the DG for the Tax Administration. And then we're gonna look at what's effective. Of course, we do so in close dialogue. We really do not just do that with the three dgs Mr Snels refers to. That is what we do with political leadership, but also with the workplace, as Mrs Leijten rightly points out. What's effective? What's going to make the system better?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u396	It's still not clear to me. Let me give you an example of the debate on the future of the system of allowances. This is going to be a very fundamental discussion. Will the DG Supplements and the Secretary of State Supplements discuss, or will the DG Tax cases and the Secretary of State for Taxation do so? Because the surcharges have a close connection with how we look at the tax system. You can't change the fees without a reform of the tax system. Who's gonna do that? I have no idea. And is that also made clear in the appointment for the new DGs? Is there a division of labour there? Do they know what they're getting into? Or are they actually gonna fight that out with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u397	To be honest, I was hoping to hear a positive basic note when Mr Snels said: at least that piece on the official summit and the political summit appeals to me. That's how I interpreted an earlier piece of what he said. But take that particular example. Once again, I really think it is up to the Prime Minister as a resurrected reformer to gloat, and I would also like to write that note, to say exactly how this division of tasks lies. In order not to park this example entirely there: that is clearly the case with the State Secretary who is talking about the surcharges. It will obviously do so in dialogue with the Dg Increases in the first place. Mr Snels knows my ministry better than just a Member of Parliament. How do things like that go? This kind of thing always involves the full official summit, and some in particular. So the DG FZ will also be involved in this. SZW's will be involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u398	Mr. Snels, I see you a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u399	There will be further motions, including procedural agreements, but I remain dissatisfied with this. Then may I ask one question? Maybe it's actually up to the Prime Minister. The Minister says that at the top there is unbundling, but no further in the organization. Does that mean that when it comes to political direction, we're going to get a Secretary of State from the Tax Office and a Secretary of State for the surcharges? Then there is at least some hierarchy in the way in which we, even as a Chamber, should look at these rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u400	No, Mr. Chairman. It is perfectly clear at the level of... I see Mr Snels gloating, but I am going to say it again. It is quite clear that in the portfolio of one will be at least the Tax Administration and Taxation, and in the portfolio of the other the fees and the Customs. Of course I have my head what should happen to all these other things, but I do not think that is appropriate. I do not think it is up to me in this debate, so I am going to make a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u401	I think this is sufficiently discussed. Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u402	I do not want to talk about the political division. I think it's clear. I also understand the desire for reinforcement at the top, as it was called. But let me get this straight. It is precisely the report that has been produced that warns against too fast unbundling. Now I hear that it is an option that we, say, appoint a heavier person for Fees and Customs, so name dgs, but that the dg Tax Administration in the more traditional form, which is about taxation, actually continues to do all the things that are used more widely in the Tax Administration. So can the outcome be that there is no unbundling in this sense? Yeah, you've got a guy who's gonna take care of the surcharges; someone like that's gonna be in the IRS right now. Aren't we going to try and cut all things that are wider into pieces? Am I to understand that that could also be an outcome? My second question, because I had asked a lot of precise questions. Does that mean that this dg is responsible for everything, except for the specific thing that is now covered by the Director of Fees, whether it is covered by Customs? Are there studies to do it this way and not, for example, use the model that Mr Snels is talking about? I'm talking about the official side, not the political side.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u403	Let me start one stop earlier than Mr Van Weyenberg, because he says that the report says: don't do it too fast. Mr Nijboer rightly referred to this. The report also says, "Go unpaced." That's what it starts with. The advice to the political summit of the Ministry of Finance is: do not continue with this. Unpaced and start at the top. In my own words: then be pragmatic and think carefully about what you do when. But it says, "Go unbroken." What matters to me is that you then look at each of those parts, which you should describe as shared service in bad Dutch: what solves to cut it? If so, if it solves something, what is the time and time to do so? Many of these things will apply to what is happening in all kinds of organizations: they are on the side and are not in any of the three columns at all, but still work for everything. That is more obvious with blue and red, because Customs, I think, is really another part of the service, and the FIOD is another part of the service. I think it would be wise, step by step, each and every one of them, to see how to proceed with that. Then about the model. Of course, that model has been looked at more widely; it is not new either. That is what Van Rooijen has been aiming for, but by the way, the idea of a second Secretary of State has sometimes been put forward, I believe, by Mr Koolmees as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u404	Again, I'm not talking about two State Secretarys. I also understand the increase in the official summit in the Tax Administration. The question is how to keep things from getting stuck in that service, that there will be uncertainty, that who of the Three will have to be played, because there will soon be a lot of energy in how we are going to unbreak things instead of making the system better and we will now finally solve that surcharge affair as soon as possible. There's my fear. Because then the drawing board may look nice, but in practice it is rather an obstacle. I think we all want to avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u405	I fully agree with Mr Van Weyenberg. By the way, I still have a piece to answer from his first double question. Can you therefore imagine that there are pieces, for example in the field of shared services, where you come to the conclusion that, although you unfold on all kinds of parts, you let them still exist for all three of those organizational parts? Take, for example, the Tax Phone. I really want to abstract from such an example, but I mean things that are now going over all service parts. Of course, that is quite possible. That's not unique either, is it? We see this in all kinds of places in the public sector and also in the private sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u406	Finally, Mr. Van Weyenberg, and very briefly. By not limiting the number of interruptions, I notice that a number of questions come back in different forms. So I'd like to appeal to you guys to really work towards a round-up right now. You also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u407	But the answer was yes. That's absolutely possible. I also think that we have an open look...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u408	The same goes for the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u409	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. That's where you got me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u410	Three quarters of my input was about this. This is about an organization of 30,000 men. I don't want us to think, "Hey, what did we say yes to?" I don't think anyone would want that on their conscience. I understand what the Minister is saying, but I have one more question. This can therefore mean that at the top some changes are being made, that parts are being added to whatever DG it belongs to, that everything that is broad remains covered by that DG Taxation/Taxation Service and that there is therefore no formal reorganisation in this sense either?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u411	I think I have made a very clear point about what people typically mean by a reorganisation. Then you spend two years with all kinds of people applying for jobs and so on. I think I really tried to say: this is not this. I think that I have just made myself clear to Mr Van Weyenberg about exactly where you need to unpaw and what you need to unpaw. That does not affect the really sensible choice, in my view, to do so at the top. I have also promised that where we are going to change, we are going to change that, with the execution test and the risks that Mr Van Weyenberg asked for...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u412	Yes, you did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u413	...will proactively share with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u414	I must say that I may have started this debate with some optimism, but as time goes on, I am becoming increasingly disheartened.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u415	That's not exactly what we're supposed to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u416	Maybe it's just the timing, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u417	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u418	When I hear that the Minister fears that the Secretary of State or himself is working until the summer recess to uncover the CAF, I think: then it is not in that Secretary of State, because we are not going to appoint a Secretary of State to create a little human size, a little efficiency and a little better treatment by the Tax Office. There really needs to be more. Surely it must be possible that the Tax Office also employs people who can do so? Because this evokes the image that there will be five pairs of hands at the wheel, that there will be gas and brakes, that the car will be stuck further and further into the sand and we will be at the summer recess to see what the misery is again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u419	Who are those who are adequately, with integrity, to speak to the citizens? Of course, that is often not the official summit. They're just people in the workplace. The scope is, of course, also very clearly aimed at enabling it to do so. But I am going to repeat once again, also to stress once again, how things are going at the moment, for example, at these surcharges and how much attention has been needed, from the Secretary-General of the core department, from her deputy, from myself and from many others, to send to the organisation at a detailed level. That shows that reinforcement is really essential there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u420	It is precisely that supervision at the level of detail that does not create confidence. The fact that details are so much to be dealt with, that apparently they are not anchored in the top of the organization and that there is not the feeling that they should be, therefore makes me disheartened, regardless of time. The point is that a secretary of state, a political leadership, should be involved in policy. He must be able to rely on his officials and on what is at the lower level. Check the report, too. It says that the hierarchy is so strong that signals from the workplace do not come out enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u421	That last point is absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u422	Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u423	We need to pay more attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u424	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u425	Then there is the first point. Of course, we all want that kind of thing to go right automatically, but look what happened to the black-painted files. As an official summit, but also under that summit, and also as a political summit, you can't help but say that it's essential that a second round is going well, and that you're interfering intensively, much more intensively than you might like?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u426	I have a more political question. The DGs, the official summit of finance, will be completely replaced. That is quite crucial at this time, but I leave it all to the Minister. The Minister must ensure that it is resolved when they break each other's heads, when there is a struggle for competence or when he needs one or two extra dgs. He'll figure it all out. I think all this is a task of the Minister. It is not up to Members of Parliament to interfere.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u427	Thanks for the vote of confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u428	Yeah, that turns out to be after.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u429	But now it's still there, so I count my blessings.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u430	But I do ask a question about ICT. The Minister just said that the Secretary of State was working 90% of the time on these supplements, at least in the last six months. We've known for years that ICT is a problem. The other 10%, I think, he was working on the Tax Plan. We have been doing a good job with that too. There was a lot to note, by the way, but that aside. So what happened there? Is ICT gonna be okay there? Because when I see the reports that are underneath and how crucial that is for tax collection, I am very concerned about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u431	Mr Nijboer is quite right about that. I said it's 70%, 80%, 90%. The closer we got to December 19th, the more time the Secretary of State specifically devoted to the surcharges. But Mr Nijboer is right. Why is that so important? Because in recent decades, the Tax Administration, as is the case with banks and other organisations with that type of characteristics, has changed from a total paper organisation to something where IT is the lifeline to do things. That is simply not in order. So we're gonna have to get to work. This has consequences for how we should proceed with innovation. That has consequences for the hardware, the software and all kinds of details. It will probably also have budgetary consequences. There really is a whole ditch work coming from behind. That'll be a journey of years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u432	It is good that the Minister acknowledges this, but it is not good that it is so at the moment, because we had this debate a year, two years ago, I think three years ago. It would get better step by step and become more in control. What the Minister is actually saying is: it is not in order and it is very worrying. But I haven't heard how it's gonna get better yet. I think that's crucial to trusting the IRS. I have proposed in the past: stop all the reorganisations that are going on, because they are still going on, at least stop doing so. Those suggestions have always been dissuaded. Is that something the Secretary of State is shutting down now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u433	Mr Nijboer made another justified comment. He said, "Didn't anything happen?" No, of course there has been a tremendous amount of work done by the many tens of thousands of people, especially by the people of IT. But if I may also make a broader comment...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u434	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u435	Well, chairman, I won't make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u436	Shortly, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u437	There is virtually no large implementation organisation in the private or public sector that has not struggled extremely fundamentally with IT over the past decade. Apparently, it's not easy. It is still not easy for the Tax Administration, without prejudice to all the good work that has been done. I agree with Mr Nijboer that these reports provide a basis for this. We need to move on with that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u438	Okay. Mrs. Lodders. I see you doubting, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u439	Mrs. Lodders... I can see you're having second thoughts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u440	There's never any doubt, Mr. Chairman, but you're talking about the floor. So if you'll give me the opportunity, I'll ask you another follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u441	Yeah, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u442	That's a hell of a generality. There are ICT problems everywhere; that is, of course, true. But we just saw that the inheritance tax didn't come in. That was hundreds of millions. And in the collection of VAT, the computer systems from the 1960s still function. You don't think it's possible, but it's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u443	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u444	I would like the Minister to say here: we are in order, the continuity of tax collection is not in danger and it is getting better. But I didn't hear the Minister say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u445	Mr Nijboer now says: I would like the Minister to say that it is in order. But that would be wrong to inform the Chamber. It's not in order, see the report. That means we still have a lot to do there. This also shows why it is so important that this is done in the full light, politically but also administratively. Again, a lot of good work has been done. But the world of IT literally changes every day. The demands we make on things change every day, too. Once it was revolutionary that the Tax Administration introduced the floppy, and nowadays you can report it in all kinds of countries via the app.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u446	I'm gonna go on about the reorganisation. That was an important point in my speech. I have the following feeling: a reorganisation has been announced, with rather big words, but at the same time I feel that the reorganisation still has that unprecedented, unknown destination. A number of examples have just been reviewed. ICT was an important part of that argument for me...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u447	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u448	...but also the question of how we deal with it... What do you say, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u449	Mr Azarkan is talking to me. We're in contact with any interruptions, but you can't see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u450	I think this is my first real interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u451	No, it's not about you. It's about Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u452	Okay. As far as I am concerned, it is therefore about ICT, but also about the process of collecting taxes and paying surcharges. I understand the Minister says something must be done. Of course, I think we've noticed that with each other. But I do want to know the destination. Where are we gonna land somewhere? I am not yet in this debate, so perhaps the Minister can try to take me a little further, especially with regard to those important elements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u453	In any case, let me start by joining and underline very much what Mrs Lodder says about the enormous importance of this continuity. Frankly, when it comes to part of the procedure we are discussing today and the route ahead: once again, Menno Snel deserves real compliments for everything he has started, including with regard to that bottleneck and those follow-up steps. If you continue on the road that we have taken to this day, I am very concerned that you are running great risks of continuity. Because then you really are in a situation where the politically responsible doesn't really have time for the important issue that Mr Nijboer raises, really doesn't have time at all for the classic Tax Service. Then you're in a situation where the Director-General of the Tax Administration actually doesn't have time again for that IT, that tax and that Tax Administration. That may be politically pleasant, because then you do not have this debate and then you have done nothing, and in that respect you can also say: there is nothing to blame for me. But it would really... We are also here to improve things and we have really looked carefully at this. There is still a lot of work to be done, I'm sure it won't all go well at once, but continuing on the road as we did until 19 December would be really irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u454	I also indicated in my speech... It is also to the credit of the Minister that he looks back with a positive look at what the Secretary of State has started. But it was the same former Secretary of State who, I believe, still advocated a policy vacation six months ago. So I am looking for what happened in that intermediate period that we are going from a poor period of policy to a somewhat larger reorganisation at once, of which, once again, the destination is not yet quite clear in mind. So would the Minister like to go into that? My third question will also be put immediately, Mr President. I have not yet heard the Minister give a concrete undertaking that the plan of action will actually come about, with the risk assessment which also shows the final picture, the final picture of the service, with the various elements, in the long term, of course, also with the cost picture. I understand that's not gonna happen tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u455	Let me start with that last one. Yeah, but I think that's gonna lend itself to tranchewise. I think it is really wise not to record this at once for now and for all eternity, precisely because there is just so much work to be done in terms of content. In some cases, this unbundling can be sensible, but it can also be that you say: you know, we have to do something else; we should not do that for the next three years and then we will take it again. The second thing I would like to say, to reassure Mrs Lodder, is that what the Secretary of State said about the policy holiday is about fiscal legislation. We're talking here about how we're gonna get a hold of the machinery in the engine room of everything that's going on in the IRS. In my view, what the Secretary of State has rightly said is that this engine room can hardly cope with any new, in itself valid political desires in the field of taxation. I would like to underline very much what he has said about this. This is really about how we become more effective and how we get more in control.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u456	Finally, Mr President. Of course, it does. You can say that you want policy vacation when it comes to tax legislation, but everything is interlocking in that service. Once again, I am committed to getting a plan of action, or at least having a kind of roadmap that states where and when certain turns are taken or not. I will be asking for this in the second term. Of course, there may need to be a review. I can imagine. I think it's very important that you build in that flexibility, but I think you're giving a little too little explanation and direction when you say "we're going to reform" or "we're going to broaden the bottleneck and we'll see." That doesn't just apply to us as a room. I think it's also important for the service to know what the final picture we're working on is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u457	For the record, the route I want to take is exactly in line with the point of many people in this Chamber who say: don't do things too fast. But I am convinced that it would really have been a worse scenario if we had let go of these months and then said to that one Secretary of State with that one DG: we should have dealt with that before, but we found it so complicated. I say to Mrs Lodder that we will share the documents on this with the Chamber as soon as they are available. Moreover, I fully understand the wish of the previous Secretary of State for that policy vacation. I believe that he too has seen it, and I can see that even Mr Delors will always oppose it, because there will always be tax ideas on the part of fiscal spokesmen. And luckily so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u458	I also had a question about the unbundling and the new structure of the Tax Administration. I am not a financial expert and I do not want to raise myself as such, but yesterday I read an analysis of Leo Stevens, emeritus professor of fiscal economy at Erasmus University and one of the founders of the tax system in Het Financieele Dagblad. He's actually not that much to talk about the plans. He says that this new structure does not solve the implementation problems in the Tax Administration. I'd like to hear the Minister's assessment of that analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u459	In no policy area that I have touched, it has been so that all the columnists were then very much in agreement with it. I think all colleagues in the cabinet are covered. So I have to accept that in this role. I haven't read the column, but I think Stevens is right that there is still an incredible amount of work to be done. That's also about processes, about how you agree on what one of the other can expect, and about how you get things. There is still a great deal of work to be done in practice. See also what Mr Nijboer referred to. If I had given the impression that this plan would then be all right, I say: on the contrary, this is necessary, it is necessary now too, but it is certainly not the only one. It's part of a much larger palette.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u460	He's not a columnist. He is an emeritus professor of fiscal economics and one of the founders of this system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u461	Sure. I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u462	He actually says, "It's counterproductive. You're actually gonna appoint three bosses, and then you're gonna ask two State Secretarys: is it okay? If there are differences in interpretation in policy coordination, problems arise."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u463	I have Mr Stevens very high up. "Columnist" I didn't mean so much as an insult, but I misunderstood that. He has also been very closely involved in this system and all the advantages and disadvantages of the system. At the same time, I think and believe that the situation in which we ended up with the system, with all its complexity and all its execution, justifies the various pillars of the letter I sent to the Chamber last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u464	Thank you. You're ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u465	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I'd like to stand still for a while, but I thought I'd be ready anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u466	The Prime Minister would like to reply briefly to a question from Mrs Leijten, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u467	Yes, Mr President, I still owe Mrs Leijten an answer. I took a look at what she said about the Minister for Social Affairs in the previous cabinet. He's been working on the childcare allowance. That wasn't linked to the CAF at the time; I checked. He actually said: the whole system, the system, the child care allowance, he was there as Minister of Social Affairs, of course, responsible at system level for.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. This includes, for example, an estimate of the amount of the surcharge in advance and an ex-post payment. Those are elements of the system we have. That was discussed with the Chamber at the time. This has led to the idea of direct childcare funding. In the end, it was said that that was simply not enough chance at the time. That idea will undoubtedly come back if you look again at long-term solutions to the surcharge system, I suspect. We've also checked with Social Services. That wasn't linked to the CAF back then. Here too, the whole theme of the CAF was only revealed with the Ombudsman's ruling in 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u468	Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u469	I would like to say this because I was unable to serve Mrs Leijten in full on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u470	A very short question, Mrs Leijten. Don't stir up the discussion again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u471	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I think it's a good reconstruction. That underlying report also said that the risks lie too one-sided with the parents. I'm not just talking about CAF, because it was long before CAF. That analysis was so sharp because they said: it is too vulnerable for those households, even if they have to pay everything back. I think that was well known to Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u472	In itself, that's true. It is just not the case that the case of the CAF was also known at the time to Social Affairs and to the Minister at the time. I thought that was the suggestion that Mrs Leijten might have understood it that way. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u473	Well, that'll clear it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u474	This was only shown there in 2017 with the Ombudsman's ruling. Then we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u475	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u476	That's quick, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the two leaders for their presence in this debate and for all the answers to the questions. I think it is quite clear that there is a very, very large task for the cabinet. Firstly, justice must be done to all affected people who have been wronged by the action of the Tax Administration and by the government. In my view, these are two elements. It's about compensation, but it's also about getting an insight into the files: why have I been seen as a fraud all this time? It is also about policy adjustment. That was the statement of the Council of State of 23 October: it must not be all or nothing anymore, but proportionate. I would like to ask the Minister: has this been adapted to the policy of the Tax Administration as of 1 January? That was promised by the cabinet. The legislation will come on 1 June, I hope. That has also been promised to the Chamber. Thirdly, adjustments to the supplement system are necessary, as far as possible within this cabinet period, where this can be incremental. Fourthly, we must have fundamental discussions about abolishing the surcharge system, without political taboos. That was also the Prime Minister's answer to Mr Van Weyenberg. Free childcare, income-dependent care contributions and what does not come back on the table. Also less fun things come back on the table, but really without political taboos. The biggest task is ultimately the reorganisation of the Tax Administration. I am still a little disappointed at that point. I think... I see you're looking at me, Mr. Chairman. May I? I was thinking: where is the difference between my vision of this reorganisation and the vision of the cabinet? Isn't that ultimately in the attitude difference, as the Minister himself calls it? Isn't paying supplements something other than collecting taxes? I fundamentally disagree with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u477	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u478	Both concern legal certainty and legality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u479	Mr. Snels...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u480	Both of them are about how you communicate with civilians. That is not the difference in principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u481	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u482	I was a little shorter in my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u483	I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u484	I'll start with a motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government intends to make a very substantial organisational adjustment in the short term;]] [[noting that staff are not involved in the various reports underlying this Decision;]] [[Whereas surveys of employees have shown that they do not feel heard for years;]] [[calls on the government to shape the organizational adjustment in such a way that those in the Tax Administration who carry out the work get a large vote in it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten, Mr Bruins and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-580]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u485	The Minister of Finance said about the premium affair: the more you are doing this, the more you will find and the more complex it can become. I understand that, but the parents don't give a shit about that. They just said on the app: we don't have to wait for a solution until we're grandparents, do we? That they can laugh about it, I think it's pretty brave, but I think it's very clear. If people report with "I've had to pay everything back" and the IRS has no record and no evidence that these people are fraudsters or have to pay back money for gross debt, then it's clear. Then you're just gonna go to reimbursement and compensation. That can't be that hard, I'll tell the Minister. Maybe you shouldn't make it so hard. And then I didn't get one more question answered. The state attorney continues, on behalf of the Tax Administration, to proceed with proceedings before the Council of State on the file in a won trial. If the Minister wants to get back to that in a letter, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u486	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u487	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. However, there was quite broad criticism in the Chamber of the Secretary of State's grand announced reorganisation plans. I felt that these plans were a little hasty, also because I think that the new Secretary of State should also have something to say if they are to be politically responsible. D66 also said, "Do you have to do it this way?" The VVD said: so many chefs in the kitchen, is that wise? In short, I have a motion to make a pass and to give the new Secretary of State the opportunity to make their views known at least before everything is set in motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the announced reorganisation has a major impact on the policy, implementation and culture of the Tax Administration;]] [[Whereas the newly appointed State Secretary will have his own views on the administration of the Tax Administration;]] [[calls on the Government to put in place the reorganisation so that the views of the two State Secretarys to be appointed can also be used,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-581]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u488	Mr President, then ICT. Just as I am not very interested in whether there are one or two DGs, I do not find it very interesting whether Secretary of State and Ministers are working on something 80%, 70% or 90% of their time. It just needs to be arranged. However, I am concerned about the answers I received about the progress, or rather the mess that is still going on with the Tax Office's ICT. We will talk about this further, but we have rightly spent a great deal of time on the misery for parents, and the ICT problems have been neglected. They also continue to require constant attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u489	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u490	Mr. Chairman. Since I've been a tax spokesperson, this is by far the toughest file in terms of what it does to people. We've seen it unlock emotions. I have a question for the Prime Minister. I can see why he got mad at a Member of Parliament. Has any of the leaders at any time been so angry with the officials or anyone who caused this? I would like an answer to that, because it seems that it only happens here. Mr. Chairman. There's been a meeting with the JenV Ministry. I can't wait to see what this meeting is about. Maybe we can get a little hint in that regard. I'm glad we're getting a stand-of-business letter before the summer, I hope before 1 June. It's not like we don't talk about it a few times in the meantime. But then we really know and dare to tell these parents: we have come, we have a few small things to do. Because we can't let this drag on for years. There should also be a reflection on why the High Colleges of State said something in 2017, but nothing happened. Why doesn't decisions seem to have been made? Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for coming back to the motion in part No. 468 on legal protection (31066) and on the facts of the motion in part No. 21 (35302). Who made the decisions? That's not in there. We're gonna owe you that. I am pleased that the Minister is going to listen to the or and the unions and that he is going to look at a joint committee so that whistleblowers can come forward. Mr. Chairman. In an interruption, I had asked another question about the state archivist. Wouldn't it be time to just call them and ask if the files are correct? This isn't just about fees. This is about everything. We're doing way too much time right now to find something that should just be in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u491	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. I now give the floor to Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u492	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for answering the questions raised. We have discussed with each other that the challenges in the Tax Administration are great, not primarily towards parents, but certainly also to regain confidence in the service. However, I am looking for the conviction to initiate this reorganisation. The Minister has promised a plan of action, although he has put it differently. I hope to see some further justification in that regard. I will therefore continue to ask the Minister about this. I would like to thank the Minister for saying that he will be more involved in this dossier. Of course, that also fits in with the responsibility I was reminded of during this debate by a lawyer. In Article 46 (2) of the Constitution, the Minister knows that article, I think, states that, despite the existence of a State Secretary or State Secretary, the Minister always remains responsible. My question is whether the Minister can indicate how he sees this involvement in practice. I had asked if the investigation of ABD, the motion, would come to the Chamber before the summer. And, Chairman, I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the surcharge system has become extremely complex, both for the Dutch and for the Tax Administration;]] [[Whereas the Court has held that the Netherlands is better off without the system of supplements;]] [[Whereas the Government is conducting several investigations into both improvements in the surcharge system and variants to replace the surcharge system;]] [[calls on the government to implement, wherever possible and practicable, the first improvements and alternatives in the forthcoming Tax Plan so that we can move towards a better and more humane system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Lodders, Mr Bruins, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Stoffer and Mr Snels.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-582]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u493	This motion will also include the list of 22 proposals referred to by Mr Omtzigt. Mr President, may I thank you very much for your time and opportunity?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u494	Thank you, but Mr Nijboer has another question, Mrs Lodders. Mr. Nijboer, a very short question, as always.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u495	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Lodders rightly points to the Minister's ministerial responsibility. I would like to ask the VVD whether it supports the proposal that I made in the first period of time to invite the Minister to the debates on the Tax Administration in the near future, also in view of his involvement in this reorganisation and the impact it will have?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u496	Look, the Minister has promised a number of things, so I assume that the Minister, when we talk about them, will want to be there as well. And I think I put it in a good way, but I have now asked the Minister to give a more detailed explanation of the involvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u497	Thank you, Mrs Lodders. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u498	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with a motion, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are evaluations of previous reorganisations of the Tax Administration but also other surveys of the Tax Administration;]] [[Whereas the lessons of these documents are of great value, including for the forthcoming adjustment in the structure of the Tax Administration;]] [[calls on the Government to take the lessons of previous years explicitly into account in the design and development of the adjustment in the structure of the Tax Administration, and to inform the Court thereof in any event in the regular progress reports;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor and periodically inform the Court of Justice of the impact of the adjustment in the tax administration structure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Stoffer, Mr Bruins, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Van Raan, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Azarkan, Mr Van Otterloo, Mr Snels, Mr Lodders, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-583]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u499	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister and the Prime Minister for answering the questions. I wish them much strength and wisdom in the elaboration. And I would like to make one final point. This has been a lot about civil servants and so on. I did not get involved in that debate, but I would also like to express my appreciation from this place for the people who are in the ABD's top management group. Those people work incredibly hard, incredibly many hours. And if we argue too much about what they do here, you won't get these kind of good people in this club anymore. So from this point on, I would like to express my appreciation for the Dutch officials at the top of our services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u500	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u501	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for their commitment to remain personally involved in CAF matters and with the affected parents in the coming period. Moreover, the Prime Minister said goodbye to the supplement scheme this evening. I would like to thank him for so clearly embracing the broad-based motion by Mr Van Weyenberg and myself last month. I did not get a precise picture tonight of what the Minister means by unbundling. Perhaps that should also be determined more precisely. The question is even whether and to what extent unbundling is involved. And that Customs is loosening up, I understand. But a different arrangement of taxes and surcharges requires careful operation, listening to the workplace and craftsmanship at the top. I believe that we need to work carefully and step by step, and we need to involve the workplace and the professionals who work there intensively, as I also ask in Mrs Leijten's motion, which I have signed. I'm one motion myself, and it sounds like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister of Finance intends to remove the Customs and Charges components from the Tax Administration in order to position them as independent parts within the Ministry of Finance;]] [[Considering that such a split is particularly dangerous between Fees and the Tax Administration, particularly in view of the in-depth intertwining of processes and ICT applications in collection and distribution, but also in view of the current state of the service;]] [[In line with the Bruins/Van Weyenberg motion adopted unanimously (31066, No. 558) should preferably be directed towards the abolition of the surcharges and, in so doing, the Supplements Service;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a feasibility test on the intended unbundling, with clear reporting of the consequences, implementation risks and added value to the Court,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Bruins, Mr Lodders, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Stoffer, Mr Snels, Mr Nijboer, Mr Van Otterloo, Mr Azarkan, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-584]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u502	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I said earlier, I am getting a little disheartened, not because I do not think that the rulers should not be specifically concerned with the CAF story and with the problems of those people, but it is also very easy to forget that there are a lot of other people who have problems with the surcharges. The Court of Auditors has not for nothing produced a report showing, for example, that 550,000 households have a major problem. That's 8%. People receive recoveries of 10% of their net monthly income. This makes it all the more sad that there seems to be insufficient awareness of how to deal with people while people are being put in trouble by the system. The fact that a divorce is being made is fine. Then at least we have placed all box 3 problems with a secretary of state other than that of the surcharges. Then someone can be held responsible for the old box 3 problems and the new fabrications in that field. I look forward to having a discussion with both regiments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u503	Thank you, Mr. Van Otterloo. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u504	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister said, lightly relieved: no motion. But that is because the Prime Minister has made a very clear commitment, which I would like to remind him, namely to remain actively involved in the future of the new supplement scheme. We are still told when these creative variants will come without taboos. I'd like to hear when that is. Think of the minimum wage and the income-dependent care premium. You can't think of it that crazy. Things my party gets excited about and things I might have to think about, or maybe frown on. When's that gonna happen? I am talking about the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State, and certainly also about the three directors who are responsible for the allowances, because I still think, even in this debate, that we are calling them too little. Mr Omtzigt had questions about the history of the tax administration in the past. In this context, I still do not know where the signal to Social Affairs that it went wrong in 2014 went down. I really want to go through that one more time. I'd like a response from the Minister. It is a good thing that the minister remains involved, as is the commissioning rulers. I have tabled a number of motions on what we can do in the meantime. Mr. Chairman. Finally, one thing about civil servants. I have always said in all the debates, no matter how difficult they were, about a Secretary of State of my own colour: the debate is with the rulers. If there is criticism of officials, the directors must act. If criminal acts have been committed, we need to report them. We have a service with independent, non-politically coloured officials, both high, in top management, as Mr Stoffer said, but also in the capillaries of the organizations. Let's cherish that with everything that goes wrong. I would also like to mention the pre-filled declaration. The whole world is proud to see how the Netherlands has arranged this, so that you and I can make our income tax return within 15 minutes or half an hour. I would advise you to try that in many other countries. Have a nice week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u505	Thank you, you too, Mr. Van Weyenberg. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u506	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to the colleagues. Thank you to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance for their reply. Mr. Chairman. It was a nice debate, but I am not convinced of the need for this large-scale change, also because, if I bring it back to the core, I actually come to the conclusion that the complexity of the implementation is the main problem. I think we're gonna do something about that. A motion has been adopted calling for this. It's embraced. I just understood that this also applies to the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. One of the reasons put forward for a flat organisation is that signals come through better. But we've also noticed that signals are sometimes seven years away before they come through. Whether you can create an organization where things are faster, I doubt it. I'd hope so. Mr. Chairman. The second aspect is about... I'll take a look at my own notes. No, I'm going to my motion. I see I don't have much time. I still have a motion. It is mainly about the learning ability of the government. That's a little limited. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that an institutional bias was established in the interim opinion of the Donner Commission;]] [[Whereas, according to the Donner Committee, the basis for this bias was "the tone and excitement which was discussed by the government and the Chamber in the years around 2013 about fraud in social security and its handling";]] [[Whereas this has led to a snowball effect, which has been rolled over for years and has only now, thanks to an ultimate effort by the Chamber and journalists, finally come to a halt;]] [[Considering that the oppressive and harassing State may ultimately prove to be the greatest enemy of the citizen;]] [[declares that the State must serve the people and not oppress the people;]] [[calls on the government to learn from this and to make it clear to all levels of government that the State is there for the citizen and that excessive exercise of power against the citizen is reprehensible and should not occur anymore,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-585]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u507	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u508	I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. It shall waive a second term. Then I will go to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u509	Thank you, Mr President. Very nice that the Prime Minister said: the main conclusion is that the debt of honour has increased. That is why I can also forgive him for not answering my question, but redirecting it to Mr Hoekstra, who did not answer it either. Thank you to Minister Hoekstra for the commitment to remove the stamp "frauders" as soon as possible. I've got two motions that I'm gonna have to make a hell of a lot of progress. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government following the Bruins/Van Weyenberg motion (31066, No. 558) is developing various variants for a better tax system, with the system of supplements completely disappearing;]] [[Whereas it is important to bear in mind that many people in the Netherlands are unable to make a financial contribution without supplements;]] [[calls on the government to include in these variants the possibilities for increasing the burden on our well-being and the environment, and to reduce the burden on our well-being and the environment;]] [[calls on the Government to include the possibilities of a negative income tax,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for many parents the damage is greater than the damage directly caused by the supplementing affair, for example by legal assistance costs;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the compensation scheme for all CAF cases the costs incurred for legal assistance and any other unambiguous traceable costs incurred by the Tax Administration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-586]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-587]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u510	Just for tax purposes: what is the difference between a supplement and a negative income tax? That's also a supplement you get paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u511	The point is to take advantage of the opportunity to compensate for the negative effects of removing surcharges. One of them is a negative income tax. I do not think I need to explain to Mr Omtzigt what that is. In addition, you may introduce another kind of surcharge. You need to find out if the benefit outweighs the disadvantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u512	A negative income tax is exactly the same as a supplement. That shows exactly the difficulty. In case of a negative income tax, the Tax Administration must pay money. That's what we're calling "extra payments" right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u513	Or discounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u514	No, you don't get tax discounts; a negative income tax is. I hope that at some point I will understand what the plans are to get rid of all the surcharges, because that could be difficult. Reduce is gonna work, but it's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u515	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. I see the Prime Minister wants to be the first to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u516	Yes, if you'll allow it. Two more questions and one more motion. The other motions and questions will be dealt with by the Minister for Finance. First in the direction of Mr Omtzigt. I said don't talk about civil servants in public. Behind the scenes is one of them. There is once... I will not mention the example. Well, well, anecdotal then: I know from a minister I mentioned earlier, Henk Kamp, that something went terribly wrong once. He kept that all to himself and went back to the department. That's where the walls were equally bulwark. Then the door opened: good evening, ladies and gentlemen. No one's ever known what happened there, but the people in that room knew. That's part of it. There's no other way. It's perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u517	A brief remark or question, Mr. Overzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u518	I know more than one anecdote. It has become clear in the debate that the real victims are parents who wait for justice hours after hours and day after day. They've been hit a lot harder than those officials. It is good that the Prime Minister stands for his officials, fine, but has the Prime Minister or the Secretary of State or the Minister really fallen out at any time? We don't need to know who and how and where...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u519	I am not going to say that, because that would be completely contrary to what I said earlier. Sorry. Then you must tell the Secretary of State or me: I do not trust it. This is the whole point of my comment: the Chamber has to do with the rulers. I agree with Omtzigt that tonight's topic is what happened to people. That is the subject, but this was also added in a way that I did not want to leave undisputed. In doing so, I am not taking anything away from the main subject which is, of course, the subject of tonight's debate, which is what went wrong. The question put to me by Mr Omtzig touches exactly what I say: I am not going to answer it; that is confidence in the government. Take it from me that in general there is no doubt about it. If things are not going well, then they are being discussed, but precisely in the confidence and security of that conversation, without harming people externally. If someone isn't right, if someone proves to be structuralally wrong to handle things properly, then you can't help someone like that to get another job in the government. That too is perfectly clear. It's not like someone, if something goes wrong in a particular place, is always completely written off in all cases. That's not true. It is a general answer to a specific question, but I cannot answer it specifically, because then I will go against exactly what I have just argued here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u520	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u521	The Prime Minister would like to say something about an episode by another minister, Minister Kamp, and not about this episode.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u522	Because I'm not telling you what was going on. It's been years, and it's anecdotal. He's told me about it before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u523	I hope that the message is clear that the great majority of those officials who are doing their job deserve to be praised, but that the top of the cabinet can also intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u524	I think you made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u525	If things don't go well, yeah, once, that's right. That must also be done, and this can only be done if we also keep all the roles very clearly in the ministerial responsibility. The same goes for us. Mr Omtzigt is quite right that it also applies to the cabinet. Towards Van Weyenberg, I would like to make a comment about timing. I believe that the political party that has now committed itself to putting the two State Secretarys forward will also appreciate the answer I am about to give. We need to give these two people a chance to get under the desk and see what a real timetable is. I think I'm going to operate the purest way towards that party by not answering that question right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u526	Very briefly, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u527	This is called a rhetorical trick, but it's creative. I get this, but the Prime Minister himself said it's nourishment for the election programs. We're still waiting...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u528	No, for the formation. I didn't talk about election programs, but if I could, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u529	I'm looking at what's already going on in the election programs. That'd be great. But we do not know what is in that second, more fundamental supplement report. That makes it very complicated for us. It's information we don't have. I will put this question to the new ruler, but I do call for maximum speed, even now, because I do not think there are any more creative variants than there are in the second ibo surcharges.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u530	Agreed. President. - The next item is the motion for a resolution by Mr Azarkan, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party I do not see Mr Azarkan now, but that does not matter. Then he can read it back. I understand the spirit of the motion, but in the preamble there is talk of 'the oppressive and harassing State'. It is also referred to as "all layers of government." This gives the impression that there is currently an excessive exercise of power on a very large scale. That's really going too far for me. I understand the spirit of the motion. It concerns exactly the point I made, Mr Azarkan, and I therefore agree that a rule of law means that people are protected from the government. That is at the heart of the rule of law. The government must be there with all the power to promote good and not to unjustly oppose people with those power resources. But in its wordings, this motion is really three steps too far for me. I reject the motion, but I think Mr Azarkan and I agree on the spirit of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u531	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u532	Mr President, thank you. Let me add a few small things from the first term. First of all, I should like to thank Mrs Leijten for having given me her question on the national attorney in writing. I will do so as soon as possible. Secondly, I think I spoke too freely about those 28 January and those decisions. I'd like to do that very precisely. What about it? Parents who received a provisional payment in December will have until 28 January to provide additional information in response to the provisional provision. Then there will be a final decision. I call this because being exactly here is so important and because the feeling might have arisen that I have just said it too freely. But this is the exact wording. Then there is one last thing that Mrs Leijten did not repeat, but what I wanted to promise her anyway. She also asked whether you would not be able to opt for an understandable summary in case of files rather than all that work. At least that's how I think I understood her. We would like to look at that, precisely because the whole dossier often takes a lot of time. Of course, this is without prejudice to the fact that we have to provide the whole dossier if someone would then say: I want the whole dossier. But in the search for how to get the relevant information on the table as soon as possible, I would like to bring this variant with me very emphatically. Whether it's always possible and whether it's the end of the song, I don't know, but I'd like to look at it. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a few things from the second term. In my opinion, Mr Snels again spoke of'reorganisation'. I understand his politics, of course, but I have already tried to point out that that is really something else. He said: the cabinet may assume the wrong premise that bonuses and taxes are fundamentally different things, because the Green Left Group sees this differently. I would hope that we can still come to the same understanding, namely that these things are of course not entirely alien, but that they are different in the nature of the matter. Let me illustrate this with one example. In the normal load system it is precisely decided that you pick up and that the strongest shoulders carry the heaviest loads. The largest companies are typically more affected. I will not dwell entirely on that, because then we will have a complicated discussion. People with a lot of income also pay more income tax. At surcharges we actually see the mirror image. Because one of the things that is so tragic, for example, you noticed at yesterday's meeting, is that those with less than moderate income often received many tens of thousands of euros in supplements. The less you earn yourself, the more fees you've often received. There's a real imbalance in that. It's really different when you pick up than when you pay out, especially when that cash out happens in front. So yes, there is certainly a certain degree of intertwinedness, but they are also really very different things. That's what I hear in the workplace every time. I have already had Mrs Leijten's question about the national attorney. Mr Omtzigt asked about the archivist. Here's what I'd like to do. I have already informed the Chamber that I am in conversation with the ADR or that it cannot look in width at missing objections. I will suggest to the ADR that the state archivist should also be involved. I don't know the figure of the state archivist enough, but I think you should ask him above all how you should do it in the future. I think the ADR is better equipped to look at what has gone wrong and to investigate it. But I'm not going to go into that myself, because the state archivist and the ADR know this better than I do. I am going to suggest to the ADR that the state archivist should be included in this, if they wish to take on that task. If it's going to be a different institution from the ADR, I'm going to do the same with the state archivist. Mrs Lodders cited the Constitution. That's always good. In this case, Article 46. Of course, I have felt that ultimate responsibility at all, also in recent years. It's supposed to feel like every minister. That's the way it's state law. That meant something in the past. That will also mean something in the future. Of course, Cabinet and Chamber, for example where debates are concerned, will be able to find a really good way forward, I think. I would like to thank Mr Stoffer very much for his comments in the second term. Mr Van Weyenberg asked one more question. We'll try to do that. I would like to stress the point again. He said, "It hasn't been much. But let me at least underline it once again. Very relevant in this discussion and also in future discussions is the question of what comes from the policy departments towards implementation. I am not saying that because I would like to make the company that we then form here for a debate even bigger, but Mr Van Weyenberg is simply right. Part of the misery, apart from what went wrong later, is really decided in the choice of previous Cabinets and Chambers with regard to the system and legislation that we are still dealing with at the moment. The other speakers have made more comments than questions, so for the sake of time I did not want to go one by one. I thank them very much for their comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u533	Very briefly, Mr. Van Weyenberg, because we've really been interrupting endlessly from 5:00 p.m. on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u534	I get that. I just actually have one specific question. The Minister says, and I thank him for that, that he would see what went wrong with those signals within Social Affairs that ended up there and actually got bogged down there. He'd find out more precisely. I'd like to hear how that will take shape in the next week. That doesn't have to be now, but I want to be able to guarantee how that will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u535	Yeah, because I really don't have the beginning of an answer to that right now. We're really gonna have to study these questions. I will therefore contact the Minister of SZW about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u536	Inform Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u537	I also had a short question. The Minister's involvement in this dossier will undoubtedly be discussed in the coming period. But my specific question is this. I had referred to the motion on the investigation of the ABD and the question whether it could come to the Chamber before the summer, although I know it is another department.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u538	I had judged the ABD bin, also given the passion with which the Prime Minister talked about it, as he answered. But, of course, we will pay due attention to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u539	I had asked for confirmation that the three outstanding questions from the motions could be here in about a month. I also asked what kind of consultation is taking place with the Ministry of Justice and Security and where that leads. 'Cause there's quite a number of reports by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u540	Mr Omtzigt raised three questions. One, perhaps two, can be answered within a month. But let me send him a letter of formal notice this week with the timing of all three. We're gonna do that as soon as possible, but I don't want to overpromise. With regard to Justice and Security. I told Mrs Leijten exactly a week ago during Question Time today that I understand that she is getting signals. At the same time, I have no signs of criminal acts. If I had one, I would be obliged to report it, and you bet I would. I said there that we should see if, on the basis of the material I have, there is any reason to say that I should have done so. Then I also came into contact with the Minister for Justice and Security. It is, of course, with the necessary authorities, then with the prosecution. People have to report to the police and then to the D.A.'s office. I'm talking to him. That is also in the colour bath of that commitment to Mrs Leijten. I'll just report back to the Chamber on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u541	The motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u542	I thought I'd never get there, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the motion in part No. 580, on organisational adjustments. Very much so. It is essential that the voice of the employees has a very important place in this. I had already promised that to Mrs Leijten, but I can give that to all the applicants. Then the Nijboer motion in part No. 581. There are several things in that motion. That's why you get some kind of is-the-glass-no-half-full or half-empty feeling. What is not possible is to make a pass on the spot in the sense that the choice of span or control at the top of the organization, is a path that we have entered for the good reasons. That's what we discussed in the Cabinet. So I don't want to reverse that. I would think that would be very unwise. What I am going to do, of course, is this and I think I have said the same. I hope that the Secretary of State will be here in the very near future. Of course, they will then have a decisive say in how they deal with many of those other pieces of unbundling. They will be given exactly the role that Mr Nijboer thinks they should have. So with this text I must discourage the motion, but I think Mr Nijboer feels my positive interpretation. So I'm gonna leave it to him to adjust the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u543	It's not a complicated motion, you know. I myself did not enter into any of those many discussions, for one wants it horizontally and the other vertically, one wants two dg's, the other three. None of that matters to me. What matters to me is that we in the Chamber are going to deal with two State Secretarys who have not had all those discussions, who are sitting there with what the Minister has in mind and who may have different thoughts on them. I think that's a political problem. I'm assuming those State Secretary's gonna be there next week. My only request is that they find something about it before they do and that they may be able to adapt it. If the Minister is not prepared to do so, then we will continue the debate, because we will have Secretary of State who could only say yes to what the Minister had in mind. And if he says yes, then he's wise and he's making a pass on the spot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u544	It is really not a unique situation that governors have to deal with an environment that has been formed to an important extent when they take office. That was the case with the former Secretary of State. That was true of me. To be honest, that's the natural course of things. It is not the case that people who take up office in the mid-term or at the beginning of a cabinet period can choose to do so by far. That's one. Two. I would like to leave the path we have taken with regard to the bottleneck, as it was also discussed in the cabinet and weighed by the Prime Minister, myself and others, for what it is. I don't want to tinker with that. The pain is in that sentence: watch the spot. For I do think that the two still to be appointed Secretary of State must, of course, have an important voice in the question: how do we proceed with unbundling? That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u545	It's gonna be two puppets if they can't tell us about the creature why they're being appointed. The reason why there are two State Secretarys is that this is not in order, that the previous Secretary of State had lost 90% of his time and I don't know what else. And then the core of what has to be done, the main task, is fixed while one or two weeks later it can be done fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u546	With the appreciation for the extrapolation and the term "marionettes," but the Secretary of State is not concerned either about whether or not they come together. In Mr Nijboer's logic, they should also deal with this themselves. It's not like that. That is what the coalition is about in dialogue with the Prime Minister and myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u547	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u548	I have tried to show my positive basic attitude, but I must advise against the motion in these terms. The motion in part No. 582 on a more human supplement system, I can leave judgment room. I think the wish is real. I do not want to wait for some kind of big bang, but I also want to be able to make improvements in the meantime. The first part of the ibo on supplements is also aimed at this. I do interpret the motion in such a way that we also take into account its feasibility. I believe that this is also in the spirit of the motion, as I understood Mrs Lodders. I do not think that is literally in the text, but if I may add that in my opinion of the motion, then I can give her judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u549	Nevertheless, to reassure you: "the government requests, where possible and feasible..."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u550	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. There I have it...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u551	No problem. But it's mostly about the small steps we can take. For example, we have a student who goes from study to work halfway through the year, and who encounters all kinds of problems with Supplements...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u552	It's clear, Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u553	Completely agreed and therefore con amorous judgment Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 583 on the evaluation of structural adjustment. Frankly, it is an excellent idea for Mr Stoffer to learn from it. Then, by the way, many of the differences between these three services are clearly reappearing. I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u554	Then the motion to part No. 584.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u555	I want the motion in part no. 584 I would like to give judgment to the Chamber, but I would like to add a few words: I think the split in those three DGs is really necessary. That's what we've got the report for now. So looking at feasibility tests should not apply. However, I would like to extend the scope of what we are going to do, quite frankly, even more than the motion is doing now. Because that's what the DGs are about, that's what the politicians are about, that's what we're going to map out the risks, that's what we're going to share with the Chamber, and we're going to have to take execution tests on them. So I think I am going to meet Mr Bruins... I see him nodding, so thank you for that. The motion in part No. 585 answered the Prime Minister. Then the motion to part No. 586 by Mr Van Raan: I understand what he is trying to do, but then suddenly we are in a better tax system with a lot of things that really have to do with broader taxation and political views. So I really have to dissuade them in this form. I think I can tell by his body language, but that's always dangerous, that that doesn't come quite like a thunderbolt in the clear sky. Then the motion to part No. 587 by Mr Van Raan. I understand his question very well, but then I have to go back to what I said about objectivity and Donner. We started that compensation scheme at CAF 11. I want to wait now and do it as I have actually argued throughout the first term. So I must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u556	Thank you. I see that there are still questions, but only about possible motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u557	I'm surprised at the betrayal of that last motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u558	It's Mr. Van Raan's.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u559	Can I ask you a question about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u560	Well, come on, you've already said it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u561	We have exchanged with the Secretary of State who has resigned that the CAF 11 scheme is proposed by the first Donner Committee: all parents who have received equal treatment will also have to be compensated equally. So why is that different?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u562	That is in fact what Mrs Leijten is saying. Where it is exactly the same as CAF 11, wherever that institutional bias should be, you try to relate to it and try to do the same as well and exactly as possible. But this motion finds that for many parents the damage is greater than the damage that has been caused directly, and does not impose any further limitation. Next, the second section deals with all CAF cases, while we do not yet know whether the other cases have exactly the same contours as CAF 11. It then deals with legal assistance and all costs that can be clearly traced back. Then I'll have to go back to Mr. Donner, because he has to tell me if the other CAF cases are identical to CAF 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u563	That discussion has already been held. Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u564	Then I would like to point out how these people have been dealt with. Without any indication that they were a fraud, they got that stamp and had to pay back everything. That didn't just happen at CAF11. This has also happened in other CAF cases and outside CAF. I really don't think there's gonna be any difference in rights for all these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u565	Mr President, may I thank the Members of your Chamber very much for the time and attention that has been devoted to this important subject both before and during this important debate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u566	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the Minister for Finance, the Members of Parliament and the people who have followed this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-26.u567	We will vote on the motions tabled next week.
