ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u1	The next item is the continuation of the policy debate on the state of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Veldhoen for her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to Mr De Blécourt on her maiden speech. It is good to share this moment with a champion of women's rights, as I have heard again today. For over 20 years I've worn a gown, first as a lawyer and later as a judge. It feels a bit uncomfortable to speak behind this chair without the symbolic protection of the gown. As a court of commerce, cantons, short-term proceedings, criminal justice and juvenile justice, I have seen a lot pass by, including Minister Grapperhaus, by the way, I remember. What struck me in my time as a judge, largely in conjunction with the Rutte Cabinets, was that policy seemed to be always focused on reforming our rule of law on the basis of economic principles, with less regard for fundamental principles such as judicial independence and access to justice and, on the contrary, too much emphasis on production, efficiency and output, thereby increasing the pressure on quality. All this has made our rule of law more vulnerable. Our judicial chain is squeaking and cracking. It forms the common thread of this maiden speech. One of the unique aspects of the office of judges is that you see society pass you by, get insights into parts of society that remain closed to others and can see what developments are going on. I've seen these developments and I've been worried, more and more. I'll take you to what I saw with the police and the D.A.'s office and then the justice department. I've seen increasing pressure on police and prosecutors due to structural understaffing. Take, for example, the neighborhood agents. They are often called away from the neighbourhoods due to shortages elsewhere. Several colleagues have already spoken about this. These district agents are indispensable when it comes to alerting young people at risk of derailment, whether they are first steps on the criminal path or radicalisation. At the D.A., from high to low, you hear the same thing: "There's a capacity shortage. It pinches that we can't pick up all the things that society is asking for." That, combined with steering on output, makes a lot of low-hanging fruit picked, things that are easy to solve. Often I saw the underprivileged weed grower in court, but rarely the one who set him up. In my view, the middle framework of organized crime remains dangerously out of the picture. The same applies to sex cases, which are often not picked up or taken up too late. There is simply no capacity. Officers who work hard and send emails to the court in the middle of the night prior to a hearing; it is no exception and it is signs of a much too high workload. Last month, the Limburg court declared the D.A. inadmissible because of the failure to file a claim in good time and literally blamed it on politics. It confirms the concern that has been with me for a long time, and I'm not even talking about enhanced supervision and culture at the state's attorney's office. In addition, there is also pressure on the chain partners such as the probation and the NIFP. Reports aren't coming or too late. It is not possible to hold sessions. Recently, the court of The Hague pardoned a suspect for missing reports. A clear signal, and I'm afraid that's not the end of it. I saw with my own eyes how justice became increasingly under pressure. Actually, a reference to Friday's message that more than 20,000 things remain on the shelf is enough to say: I rest my case. But I would like to take it with me, because this problem has been going on for years, and it raises the question: why has the government allowed it to come so far? For many years, I have seen a case law that has kept waiting for matters to be dealt with, the workload has been increasing and the pressure on quality has been increasing. A case law in which people's confidence in directors in the workplace was reduced and criticism of the way in which they were financed louder. A case law where more and more vulnerable people have been treated in the field of care and well-being. Criminal law is increasingly populated by people with psychiatric problems. Since 2012, the police have seen the number of notifications for this target group more than doubled to 100,000 notifications. As far as I'm concerned, it's a consequence of lifting many beds in the 24-hour shelter. Silent witnesses to a non-working participatory society. Or the many people in debt in court. As a canton judge, you are confronted with people who are at an end and weeping their records on your table; in which a single claim of €500 within one procedure turns into a debt of over €1,000, due to the high registry fees and other costs. See if you can get out of there if you live off the social minimum. A single debt soon leads to a pile of debts. People who want to pay but simply can't. In the courts, a group of people moves along different counters: collection and rental cases, under-managements and small criminal cases. It is the people who do not come along in today's society, where much, too much is asked of them. The division between the cans and the cans became more and more visible in the last few years from behind my table in a painful way. The SCP and the WRR also consistently warn against the accumulation of problems among the most vulnerable who fail to survive in the self-care society and end up unnecessarily in legal proceedings, especially when they need help. And you saw that as a judge. Mr. Chairman. I feel it is a privilege that I can highlight these concerns here and to the attention of both ministers. That is why I am standing here. The experiences I describe are developments which, in my view, constitute a threat to the rule of law, and I would like to dwell on that today. As I have just outlined, there is a highly overloaded judicial chain, the result of failing social policy, which causes too many social problems to enter that chain, while not enough resources are being made available to deal with it in that chain. In addition to this structural problem, I see four threats to our rule of law. Firstly, the way in which politics and governance relate to the triad. Secondly, the waning independence of the judiciary. A third threat is the poorer access to justice and the funded legal aid. Finally, the threat of organized crime. I will give a brief explanation on each subject and ask a few questions. First of all, the threats within the triad. The separation of powers seemed like a quiet possession, but that is no longer the case. We've talked about this before today. We're seeing more and more attacks from one power to another. The executive plays landjepick in the field of judicial power by the way in which justice is directed and financed. Politics, the legislative power, has become too much intertwined with the administration. I am thinking of the tight government agreements and the weekly coalition talks. From the legislative power, openly and increasingly, attacks are being carried out on the judicial power. The latter is very worrying, precisely because we can see where that leads in Poland and Hungary. There are open attacks. We've talked about this before today. After calls from Henk Naves and Herman Tjeenk Willink to parate these attacks, it remained very quiet. We should be tough on these attacks. We should be on the front line defending this case law as an institution. That is what I am doing on behalf of my group. I am glad to have heard others today about this. Of course, you have to be able to find something from a judge's ruling and you have to be able to disagree with it, but that's different from fundamentally attacking the institute and undermining it in that way. For anyone who questions the independence of the judiciary is not a democrat. But whoever doesn't say anything about it is also blamed. The Minister said something in the media in recent days about the attacks on the independence of the judge, but it is too thin for my group. Fortunately, the Minister says that court rulings should always be respected and that the attack on judges is a bad one. That is a start, but what disappoints my group is that at the same time it seems to question the direct effect of treaties under Articles 93 and 94 of the Constitution. Is that really true? That's my question. I'd like a response. Could the Minister also include in his reply that he explicitly calls the withdrawal of the international treaties a possibility? The opening-up of this discussion is in line with the wider global trend to call into question the multilateral treaty system and the resulting obligations. From Trump to Bolsonaro and from Johnson to the right of the Netherlands: they all attack the judge and declare the national system blissful. In my group's view, the Minister should distance himself from this and stand in front of the multilateral world order, which brings the Netherlands so much, but the Minister seems to agree with some of the noises in this Chamber and across the street. I'd like a response from the Minister. The second threat I see is the administration's grabbing on justice. In my group's view, the current governance structure and funding of justice do not meet the requirements of the rule of law. There is now an investigation into the structure of the appointment of the judiciary, following a motion in the House of Representatives. That is good, because the question is whether there are enough checks-and-balances now that the Minister appoints the members of the Court of Justice and the members of the Board appoint the Presidents of the courts. But it goes on. What about the Minister's designation powers and the funding system? Are they separate enough from political choices? In my group's view, we must go to a different way of financing. Independent justice requires independent funding. The judiciary is not an executive service of the Ministry, for which a minister sets tariffs, but a fully-fledged third state power. That state power should not compete in terms of budget with the IND, the police or the prison system. Independence must be secured in its own budget, as is the case with the High Colleges of State, or at least similar. This adjustment is necessary in order to ensure that the judicial organisation remains strong in the event of a political change. Let's fix the roof as long as it doesn't rain, or as long as it doesn't rain hard, because it's already drizzling. We can see in Poland how fast the weather can turn. On this point, the Minister refers to the Rosenmöller motion, which provides for an independent investigation to ensure better continuity in the financing of, inter alia, case law. May I explain this reaction in such a way that the investigation into the continuity of the financing of justice also looks at the budgetary system and the independence of justice? I would like a clear answer from the Minister. In addition, I have two specific points on the case law. First of all... In order to move from a production-driven to a quality-driven justice system, the judges themselves, united in national Counter-Light, have proposed the introduction of professional standards for all jurisdictions. These are the minimum standards for judges to be able to do their job properly. Is the Minister prepared to meet the capacity requirement of the case-law by making full funding of these professional standards available? I'd like a response from the Minister. Second. They want to move towards a temporary appointment of judges, thus releasing the constitutional principle of lifelong appointment of judges. They also want to make it easier to transfer judges. Both are needed to eliminate backlogs. It is, in fact, a result of years of austerity. My group is very concerned about these measures. It is a threat to the rule of law, also in view of the ever-increasing call on the extreme side to make it easier for judges to be dismissed or otherwise punished. How does the Minister view this in the light of the independence of justice? What does he intend to do and not to do in this respect? I'd like a clear response from the Minister. In addition to the need for justice as a fully-fledged third state power with its own funding and an independent governance structure, I would now like to address the third threat: reduced access to justice. My group sees access to justice for every citizen as a meta-fundamental right. That needs to be better secured. There are two aspects to this. I will deal with both, first of all with access to justice. Then I'll come to the funded legal aid. Access to justice. We live in a society that is increasingly governed by legislation, which affects all facets of our lives. Open standards are becoming more and more common in this legislation. We also talked about this in the framework of the Environment Act. The judge has an important role to play in this. This is reinforced by the fact that legislator and government are increasingly two-handed, as Herman Tjeenk Willink always points out. In that case, people can only seek refuge in the courts. As society continues to judge, it is important, in my group's view, that there should be access to justice that is accessible to everyone, that is to say, or perhaps right, for those who cannot afford it themselves or who cannot find it. In practice, however, we see that access to justice is decreasing. Last year, the Human Rights College concluded that access to justice in the Netherlands is under pressure. Mr De Blécourt pointed that out. The conclusions and recommendations are clear. My group agrees with that. The government cannot and must not wait for people to come up with a problem, but must actively provide information about their rights. All citizens must be given equal legal protection. The path to the independent judge must be open and the government must guarantee accessible legal aid to its citizens. It is the basis of a rule of law. But what do we see in this government? It seems that the policy is precisely to keep the citizen away from the courts: to allow criminal offences to be dismissed by the public prosecutor; to allow the civil court to be dismissed solely as an ultimatum remedium. Of course, no one has to go to court if they don't have to, but if they do, that should be possible. This is becoming increasingly difficult for an ever larger group. The Minister wants to settle more disputes outside the courts. Of course, it is good to look at more modern forms of dispute resolution, such as mediation and recovery mediation. But what about legal protection? How is the Minister going to ensure that important legal principles such as equality or arms are respected in this dispute resolution, for example in a dispute with an employer or a government? Isn't settling settled, especially among the most vulnerable? I'd like a response from the Minister. And is this government's view of the judge as a problem-solver legally correct? If the judge is not a par excellence disputer, I ask the Minister. With regard to access to justice, I would also like to mention two specific points to which I would like an answer. First of all... On the contrary, my group is concerned that the citizens are no longer able to find the judge. For example, look at the canton court, the most accessible judge because you can sue up to €25,000 yourself. Professor Ruth de Bock notes that citizens as well as SMEs are staying away and calls on the government to launch a public campaign with the slogan "the judge is there for you too" and to develop a website with draft subpoenas and online tools to support people in submitting claims. This call is in line with the College's recommendation. Will the Minister take this into account in his policy? Second. The high registration fees constitute a serious and real threshold in terms of access to the law. There is now a consultation on a bill to reduce those costs, but this is very lean. In the case of small cases, the Registry law still amounts to more than 60% of the principal amount. For large cases of, for example, €100,000, large businesses, only 5%. And when it comes to a claim of millions, just a few percentage points. Large businesses are simply too cheap and small too expensive. We are in favour of a fairer distribution, so that the law is accessible to everyone. The Council of Ministers for Justice is also in favour of this. Is the Minister prepared to adjust the balance sheet in favour of these smaller cases? I'd like a concrete answer. I'm joining the funded legal aid. Access to legal aid is essential in order to allow access to justice for all citizens. The reform plans have been set out and the Minister has since been on a collision course with the social lawyer. I spoke recently with a number of social lawyers and their situation sounds extremely bleak. More and more lawyers quit and there's no growth, because who wants to start in this market? Legal assistance is crucial in a rule of law. Without legal aid, there is no legitimate case law. As far as my group is concerned, it is as simple as that. Does the Minister agree with me? The abolition of legal aid in the first phase of an asylum procedure is symptomatic of the increasing thresholds in the legal aid financed and the further erosion of fundamental rights. In addition, experts stress that this will not contribute to European harmonisation and will also increase pressure on the already overloaded IND. Is the Minister prepared to say that abolition will not happen until the problems at the IND have been resolved? I would like a concrete commitment on this point. The Minister wants to reform within the current financial frameworks. There's no money in there. Why not, I ask him, now that we have a budget surplus of two billion burdens and society is increasingly judging. At the start of the plans there was an increase of 42% in the additions. The need for reform was part of this. But if I'm right, this rise is flattened. What does that say about the need for the review? I would like to hear from the Minister whether his plans have been passed on and whether we can expect legislation on this cabinet period. The Minister wants to introduce legal aid packages. That is simply privatising legal aid. As far as my group is concerned, it is undesirable, because it leads to a further race to the bottom anyway. I ask the Minister: is this neoliberal approach acceptable in legal aid? I would also like to mention two specific issues with regard to legal aid. First of all... Has the Minister taken note of the idea of a large number of renowned legal scientists and other lawyers making proposals to convert the current legal window into a first-line legal care window, as there is also first-line medical care? A window where a proximity judge, a debt relief counselor, a lawyer, a psychologist, a mediator and a bailiff are located, which is a filter: help and solutions for those who need it and to the court if they have to settle the dispute. For example, a substantive test takes place when it comes to the question of "help or justice?', Instead of a financially motivated test on the application for legal aid. Will the Minister promise that he will further develop this in policy on this issue? A second point concerns the additions to criminal law. Of course, all suspects must be assured of proper legal aid. If you look at the mega-processes that are going on and where hundreds, probably thousands of hours of legal aid are being granted, shouldn't that be isolated? It takes a huge bite out of the whole cake, and that cake is scarce. In my group's view, it is fair to make a separate provision for this, as courts and courts do when it comes to this type of mega-business. Because this type of business is increasing, while the budget is not being increased. Is the Minister prepared to undertake an investigation? I come to the fourth threat I see to the rule of law, namely the undermining. We agree that organised crime is a threat to our rule of law. The terrible murder of Derk Wiersum was a temporary low point. I call him, too, to remember this. The Minister has outlined in broad terms what the approach consists of in the first instance: a tough approach. My group is also in favour of this. There are three aspects which have my group's attention. First of all, the tough approach must go hand in hand with adequate prevention. We must ensure that young people are not tempted into criminal hand and span services, that other perspectives are offered, especially in those neighbourhoods where there is little perspective. We must signal it in good time if young people are to be tempted. Therefore, the district agent must return to the neighbourhood and teachers, community workers, youth care, employees of housing corporations and other stakeholders must be trained to recognise signals. Secondly, my group is alert when it comes to civil rights. A tough approach must not result in us consistently subjugating these rights. Thirdly, my group would like to stress once again that organised crime is purely money-driven. As far as we are concerned, that is where the focus must be. Follow the money, even if it leads to the Zuidas. Put the cash payment on tires, beyond the Minister's will. Up to €1,000, as the mayor of Amsterdam asks, so it becomes more difficult to make fresh criminal money in streets like the Amsterdam P.C. House of Commons. So crime pays less. Finally, a question to the Minister. My group wonders what the government is going to do about structural measures, in addition to the occasional measures announced. As I indicated at the beginning, the entire judicial chain has been eroded. Over 20,000 cases remain on the shelf, we've known since this week. Substantial investments in the chain are needed to win the battle. What is the Minister going to do in concrete terms in this area? I'll finish up. I started looking back on developments I saw. I want to close by looking ahead. I'm full of good intentions here. First of all, I would like to appreciate the Council of State's opinions. As a simple judge, I was used to having you listen to what the Council of State has to say. I am therefore surprised to see that the government, as well as the members of the two Chambers, are so easily disregarding the section's opinions, if it is considered politically appropriate. How do we deal with our constitutional task ourselves? We must ensure that the legislation submitted to us is sound and that it is in line with the Constitution and international treaties, fits into the legal system and is enforceable and enforceable, but in practice, I think, too often, we leave the head of what is politically desirable. We must guard our own role and the balance in the triad. How is the state of the rule of law overlooking everything? There is a need to strike a few nails, between parliament and government and between administration and justice. Justice must be restored to full power, based on quality and with sufficient resources. There must be substantial investment in the chain. The right of access to justice and justice must be strengthened as a meta-fundamental right. The legal position of the less fortunate seeker of justice is the canary in the coal mine. You can see the legal status of society from that. I will end with the intention of listening to this canary in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u4	Mrs Veldhoen, congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. After studying Dutch law at the University of Amsterdam, you worked for a few years at the European Parliament in Brussels. In 1997 you started vocational training for the Dutch barrister and worked at Kalff Katz & Koedooder Lawyers and later at Hulkenberg Van der Veen Lawyers. You dealt with matters relating to intellectual property, labour law and company law. In 2007 you made the transition to justice. You were at the Central Netherlands court until 2013 canton judge and commercial judge. From 2013 to 2019, you were at the same court of justice criminal law and juvenile criminal law. You are a member of the complaints committee of the Vereniging Rembrandt, a member of the Supervisory Board of the Paradiso Foundation and a member of the Supervisory Board of the Ymere Foundation. Previously, you were a member of the Supervisory Board of Theatre Carré and of the Supervisory Board of the NPO. You yourself said about your experience as a supervisor in the cultural sector, I quote: "I am surrounded by people engaged in visual art, music, film and theatre. And although I have no artistic aspirations myself, I try in my way to contribute to the cultural sector in the Netherlands." By the way, there are people who call the Binnenhof the political stage... In the years that you worked as a judge, your political fire has been fueled by your concerns about developments in justice, so you motivated your candidacy for First Parliamentary Membership. You were a member of Opposite Light, the group of critical judges who work for more money and a lower workload for the judiciary. On the GroenLinks website you write about this, and I quote again: "I am concerned about the growing pressure on the rule of law, and I want to make a strong effort to do so." In your contribution to this policy debate on the state of the rule of law, you have just explained this in detail. Once again, welcome and we look forward to your further contributions. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that Members can congratulate you. I would ask you to stand up for the rostrum for the congratulations, and I congratulate you first, as chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u5	I give the floor to Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u6	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of my group, too, I should like to congratulate Mr De Blécourt and Mr Veldhoen on their first contributions. We're looking forward to more. Mr. Chairman. Our rule of law demands constant attention. I say 'our' rule of law and not 'the' rule of law. Our rule of law is not left-wing, right-wing or middle-minded. Our rule of law is our all precious property, which must be nurtured and maintained. The rule of law is what binds and protects us. That is why our rule of law, in the opinion of the SP, deserves a thorough reassessment. And that is why I sincerely hope that today, this whole day, we can have an open exchange of views with both ministers. As far as I am concerned, it is not primarily a budget debate. It must go deeper, with a discussion about what we want with each other, or rather, what we should want with each other. Eventually, this has financial consequences, but this is the first discussion. This is a different approach than when we consider the rule of law as the sum of the financial commitments made in the government agreement and the budgetary changes made to it. As an example, I would like to mention the letter on the undermining which we received yesterday from the cabinet. This included the offer letter from the Strategic Board Undermining, signed by the Chairman, Mr Noordanus. Let me quote a brief quote from this: 'The plans submitted have a budget of approximately 135 million, i.e. more than the resources currently available. We have therefore asked the regions to adjust their ambitions downwards to the financial limit of 100 million." Then I think: no, no, no, don't do that! Let us start by checking whether this is really necessary, rather than saying that it should be less. What signal do we send when we say we have to change our ambitions? If you want something to spoil the atmosphere and the enthusiasm, that's it. Mr. Chairman. That budget-driven rule of law is not the rule of law I want to discuss today. I've been looking at the site of ProDemos. ProDemos teaches our young people the following: "A rule of law is a state in which freedom, legal certainty and equality are very important for citizens. In addition, citizens enjoy protection of their rights and freedoms, against fellow citizens and against public authorities." No disclaimer. So we do not teach our young people that the rule of law is what we have to pay for it and that the rule of law is the result of political negotiations and budgetary agreements. So the question is whether we're honest with our youth. Because what we teach our youth is in stark contrast to the reality that we have seen in the past decade. Because what is reality? A decade of political choices for austerity on the foundations of our rule of law has left its mark. Several colleagues have already spoken about this today, Mr Rombouts and Mr Bikker. Mr. Chairman. Generic targets and discounts, without looking at the content. Asking yourself not whether it is possible, but sticking to austerity from financial dogmatism, despite the fact that it undermines the foundations and that its recovery will cost disproportionately much more. The current state in which the foundations of our rule of law lie has not happened to us, but is a result of political choices. My first question to both ministers is therefore whether they share this view. Mr. Chairman. When citizens feel unsafe, that's a wipe sign. The only way that feeling can be removed is by showing collectively that this feeling of insecurity can be refuted. But we can't do that anymore, because we're less and less able to act in the way that's needed. The organisations that are the foundation of our rule of law are cracking in their joints. The rack is long gone and it's long gone no longer a matter of doing anything less. There are choices to be made about what we don't do anymore. That's how far we've come with each other. In spite of that: this is not the fault of the people who do the executive work, but it is the people who are directly called upon and mocked for it, or even worse, are threatened for it. So let's get the foundations straight. Police, Public Prosecutor's Office, Justice and Law. The police have been Jut's head for so long that they've been muzzled. First, thousands of people need to be recruited, and then they need to be recruited again, because, on second thought, we cannot do without them. Chief of Staff Akerboom complained very strongly about it: there are too few agents, they are underpaid and they do not get the appreciation they deserve in society by far. They can no longer close the gaps, while the problems in society accumulate. This goes from bad to worse. New problems arise, such as, for example, internet-related crime. Where do you go as a citizen? Victims are now being unnecessarily pointed at the door. The police lack people, resources and knowledge to deal with this, and to be able to respond adequately. Just as concrete: with the Computer Crime Act III, the powers of the police have been drastically extended. My group was not in favour of this, but rather of that. But has this law now finally solved the shortcomings of the police in this area? Is there sufficient investment in digital education? Then I'm talking about real training and not just an afternoon course. The rapid development of crime in the digital domain has a downside to a slow legal system. The longer we wait to deal with this, the lower it's gonna take to get the criminal spirit back in the bottle. Do the ministers see this? What are they going to do about this specific point? What solutions do ministers see? I am very curious to hear the answers to Mr Recourt's questions on the use of and protection against algorithms. Mr. Chairman. From evil to worse also applies to the state's attorney's office. Thing at the top and a workplace that has gradually lost confidence in the top. Lack of ethical leadership, he concluded. The Minister of Justice then announced enhanced supervision: the Attorney General at the Supreme Court, Mr Silvis, alongside the Justice and Security Inspectorate. That'll be after the move, I suppose. In addition, the Financial Audit Committee will be extended to include more external members. There will also be an external reflection board and an independent visitation committee, with a accompanying committee attached to it, then a Reflection Room Quality Development and a reinforcement of the Office Integrity Public Prosecutor's Office, although the first fuss about its implementation has already emerged. All these auxiliary wheels, Folkert Jensma already gave a nice list of them in his NRC column of February 22nd. But that means that there are a lot of side wheels attached to that bike from the top of the public prosecutor's office. The problem with side wheels is that they give support not to dive around, but for the course they should only be mounted on the rear wheel. Because if you mount them on the front wheel, which you steer with, then the bike, or the top of the public prosecutor's office, is fixed in this imagery, on a course that you can no longer steer. You can only go forward or backwards in a straight line. I don't think that's what we want. Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, prosecutors are threatened and they, including their families, face severe consequences for their personal lives in serving the rule of law. You have no choice but to express your deep disgust at this, and your deep respect for the steadfastness of these professionals. Mr. Chairman. A lawyer was murdered. Murdered because he did what constitutes our rule of law, and what we teach our youth at ProDemos. The question is how we reverse this and what it takes. Should we not make the fundamental statement that the only answer to that question can and should be in the interests of our rule of law: whatever it takes? Whatever's necessary is necessary. I would like a response from the Ministers on this point. Mr. Chairman. The judgment also beeps and cracks. Here, too, the task-setting cuts, without looking at the content, which were not provided with any substantive consideration, have kept a firm hold. Indeed, last week, we read to colleagues that 23,000 lawsuits cannot be started, because everything is lacking: people, resources, facilities, everything. This is bad for the victims, bad for the suspects and above all for the sense of justice of society. Do the Ministers also see that it is no longer possible to do so and that a point needs to be made? A thorough review of our rule of law and an attack plan to restore the entire chain, including financial ones. How do the Ministers intend to cope with new developments in this situation of financial malaise? The Environment Act... colleagues have already referred to it... is going to create a new high tax on the rule of law due to the often open standards that are responsible for it. The new Code of Criminal Procedure must be introduced within a few years. How should all this be done with regard to people and resources, is my question to the ministers. Mr. Chairman. It is therefore high time for the SP to have a budget for justice separate from the Ministry's budget. We were just discussing it briefly at the time of interruption, with Mrs Veldhoen and Mr Backer. For my group, therefore, it is not a question of whether the separate budget will be forthcoming, but only of when. The longer we wait, the more the problems deepen. It's just the criminals who spin yarn on it. Mr. Chairman. This is equally true of social law. Does the Minister for Legal Protection agree with the SP Group that the government itself should first put its own house in order, because, as Mr Backer referred to, the majority of citizens did not bring a case before the courts themselves, but were assisted in a case brought against them by the government? What is happening with the Tax Administration and the UWV and how can citizens defend themselves against it? Isn't it true that ProDemos teaches our youth that a rule of law means that you, as a citizen, are also protected from the government? Then make sure that the government gets its own business in order, and until then make sure that the social lawyer can do his job. There is a need to stop more and more social lawyers, and try to get them back after they've stopped, after finally getting the insight that they're indispensable. We saw it in the care department before, Minister De Jonge talked about it earlier, and we also saw it in the police department. I have already referred to Mr Akerboom's comments. The cabinet and the other authorities themselves can make a good contribution to the solution, by better and more careful consideration of whether a procedure against the citizens should be initiated at all. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. Then there's another point. I first read with amazement, then with confusion and finally with amazement the interview of the Minister for Legal Protection in last week's AD, and then at least the second part. Did I really hear the Minister say that we should not actually sign treaties that we can also be held to in court? Does the Minister really think that his fellow cabinet members are now and in the past so vain that they are signing a treaty because they are allowed to take a picture? That was about the image he put out. And can the Minister tell us in concrete terms who did this and what are the treaties he is thinking of? And if the Minister could now remove signatures under treaties, where would he want to go? I'm genuinely curious about that. However, I would like one specific answer from this Minister for Legal Protection anyway: does he want the Netherlands to withdraw its signature under the ECHR? Or is the Minister perhaps afraid that, if I compare it with the Urgenda case, he will face a similar case under Article 17 (c) of the ECHR? It says: "Access to justice must be genuinely guaranteed and legal aid is granted to those who do not have sufficient resources to act in legal proceedings." Isn't that what the Secretary of State is afraid of? I'd love to hear that, too, but I wonder. So would you like a clear yes or no: does the Minister of the ECHR want to go or not? Can the Minister further clarify whether he is of the opinion I asked just now that the Netherlands should only sign treaties that we cannot be held to? 'Cause then you really just sign for the picture. If this were the mindset of the Minister, which I do not hope, then I am beginning to develop some feeling for Arjen Lubach's suggestion a week and a half ago in his programme. Mr. Chairman. The rule of law has been broken down little by little and it has been tried to camouflage it with supposed activity and brutality. In addition, you could argue that some measures have been taken with good intentions, but that certainly does not apply to all measures. Many measures have been effective, but seem to add nothing or little in practice. I would therefore like to make a suggestion to the Ministers today. To get the dust comb through the measures of the past decade. What works can stay, what doesn't or no longer works just stop. Let's clean up the legal system and get rid of all that unnecessary feigned activity, tough work and window dressing. And let us also involve that one superministry, which was formed at the start of Rutte I. It must appeal to a minister of the VVD House if he is encouraged to clean up the administrative burden in our legal system. That would be decisive. And there's a lot of money to be saved. Would the ministers feel for such action? Mr. Chairman. I referred earlier to the terrible threats against people who are committed to our rule of law, with the murder of Derk Wiersum as a tragic low point. My group takes a deep bow to all those rude and threatened agents, officers, lawyers, administrators, prison guards, staff of TBs clinics and all those others who make these sacrifices for our rule of law. It's almost inhuman to ask them to do this, but they do it. All our efforts must therefore be aimed at ensuring that their sacrifices are not for nothing. Unfortunately, this terrible hardening has also led to the need for many people to be protected. There's a practical problem there. For starters, people need to be there. The regular work remains because people are being used for the necessary security; no misunderstanding about that. The other point is the financing of all those security measures. This is now done according to the "café model": there is consumption on the pof, we write it on a felt and we will take care of it again. That's not in any management books. You don't find that with INSEAD either. The Ministry of Finance will not accept that either. But it's the practice. Each organisation now regulates as much security as possible, without that fitting within the regular budget and funding. After all, the ordinary work on which the funding is based continues. The costs are recorded without payment. So there is actually living on the puff. But there's gonna be a time when we're gonna have to take care of it. My specific question to the Minister is therefore: who is the account to? Or are you going to say that everyone on their own budget is paying for the security of their own people, even though they are not provided for? This protection on the pof should never result in the necessary security being put under pressure because it is not clear whether the account can be paid or whether the regular work is not done. I would like a clear answer from the ministers on this point, because I hear a lot of concerns about this in the discussions I have had with people from organisations that form the basis of our rule of law. Mr. Chairman. Considering our rule of law, I would like to see a comparison with health. Health often seems self-evident as long as nothing is going on. However, the consequences of disease, including the rule of law, often only become apparent when it is too late. Warnings were ignored, because it didn't bother you very much, did it? It was just a little pain. And what did bother you, wasn't it okay with that? However, there are more and more signs that there will be more awareness and that warnings will be made so clearly that they can no longer be ignored. In our rule of law, watches are currently being levelled by all organisations in the public interest. The importance of the rule of law is the importance of our policemen, our lawyers, our prosecutors, our judges. They make themselves heard loud and clear: this is what is happening! Our rule of law is in need and is in real danger. Mr. Chairman. I would like to return to the expert meeting of the First Chamber on 8 February 2014, in preparation for the debate on the State of the Rule of Law. The then President of the Supreme Court, Mr Corstens, spoke clearly: "Right is not a consumer goods but a collective good and an essential part of our rule of law. This therefore requires a different approach." Another approach that has been lacking for far too long as a result of neoliberal policy. We now see the consequences of this. Consequences which we also see in other areas, such as health, education, safety and culture. No market, but treated as such. For that we now pay the toll as a society. Mr. Chairman. Sometimes a disease is ruthless, both in the rule of law and in man. Under the rule of law, that is unmistakably the death of Derk Wiersum. I mentioned it earlier and we must never forget it. In humans I am thinking of the incurable Belgian doctor and politician Dirk van Duppen. You may not say his name that much, but look it up, because I would like to finish my contribution with a few words from him. When people say that our rule of law is incurably ill and that there is no salvation anymore, I personally refuse to accept it. And because of all those people who together give form and content to our rule of law and to call them not to give up, I would like to conclude with the last hopeful words from the recent and last booklet of the incurable sick, but to the last moment involved and combatable Dirk van Duppen, entitled: This is how the time that was measured went. The last words in that booklet, and also the last words that give me hope, are: I see the world tilting, I believe it will be okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u7	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all also from my side the warm congratulations for colleagues Veldhoen and De Blécourt on their beautiful maiden speeches. Mr. Chairman. The British House of Commons also knows the phenomenon of the maiden speech. Danny Kruger, a new Member of Parliament in this House of Commons, recently advocated a revaluation of Christianity in his maiden speech. He regretted that Britain was driven away from its Christian roots. According to the politician, many contemporary problems can be solved by resorting to the Christian past of the country. I quote from this parliamentarians' maiden speech: "Even for those who did not believe in God, there was a feeling that our country is rooted in Christianity, that our freedoms derive from the Christian spirit of absolute human dignity." He concluded by saying, "Let's not throw away this culture by chance." Perhaps with these notions we can also do something about our debate on the rule of law. What are the moral conditions for our democratic rule of law? I raised that question earlier, a few years ago, because I think it is fundamental. What is this democratic rule of law supporting? What's her content? What people, with what values and standards, shape the rule of law? What moral compass guides our rule of law? The recent book The Invisible Size, by Andreas Kinneging, shows what has happened now that we have exchanged the faith in a given moral order that limits our lives to salvation for moral and cultural relativism. He advocated sensible moderation and timidity as central virtues for politicians and citizens. With only the absoluteisation of freedom and equality, we will not get there. Fortunately, however, it is not only Christian or conservative thinkers, such as Kinneging or Bart Jan Spruyt, who put their finger on this. I also mention the name of classicist Tom Holland. Frits Bolkestein did this years ago in the VVD. And in the previous debate on the rule of law two years ago, I referred to a relevant report by the WRR on this issue. I would like to quote from this: 'The rule of law includes an ethos, an ethos of self-evident behaviour and expectations. Maintaining the values of the rule of law is like maintaining a friendship." What is the government doing to maintain this ethos, now that Christian faith has evaporated from the sphere of education, education and culture? What technique has a secular order to transfer moral values and code of conduct, so that our civilization remains intact? And yes, this SGP also knows very well that we have known for a long time the separation of Church and State. But until a few decades ago, this separation was accompanied by full churches, with all the consequences for the public domain. I suspect Minister Grapperhaus has also thought about this recently. A few weeks ago, 6 February, he was allowed at a meeting of the Thijm Society to reflect on the book A vital rule of law; foundation, vulnerability and resilience. Unfortunately, I have not been able to find a report on this meeting. But this book includes a fine contribution by Emma Cohen de Lara. She writes about Plato. Plato, like us today, also thought about how we can learn to live together. According to Plato, the quality of the rule of law is first and foremost determined by a certain morality among the citizens. Where that morality is lacking, we do not necessarily get chaos, but we get the weets and rules of the government. Rules which, in fact, result from a lack of decency on the part of citizens. It's pretty recognizable. For example, the government must prescribe that it is not good if a 12-year-old walks in the middle of the night with a big butterfly knife on the street. In the end, this is what we all feel is a dead end route. The author rightly concludes that certain moral conditions must be met for a good society. In the end, they can only be taught through good education and good education, not by the state and its laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u9	The argument begins with: those Christian values give morale and the norm in society and the rule of law. Then you quote Plato, a pre-Christian thinker, who says exactly the same thing. Is that not the answer to your first question? Namely that standards, values, morality can also be found in extra-Christian values.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u10	I think that's a very nice question. I'm glad you did. It's not for nothing that I quote secular thinkers. I mentioned Frits Bolkestein, but I did quote Plato as well. I think we know a very rich tradition, even outside the Christian tradition, which we can learn a lot from today. So I'd say in particular, let's record that glove with each other. You will not be surprised that as a Christian politician I think that this Christian tradition, with that great emphasis on the fact that every human being can be there and is absolutely worth living, that that absolute humanity, is a very important notion. But it is absolutely true: there is also a lot of wisdom to be found outside the Christian tradition. I'll admit that immediately. Mr. Chairman. The government cannot force a certain morale that no longer lives with the citizens, no matter how many rules it pulls out of the closet. In that sense, there was an ironic truth behind the recent scurvy of CDA-Kamerlid Martijn van Helvert. He said in an interview in the Nederlands Dagblad: "As many laws and rules as D66 has made, the church has never invented one another in all these centuries." Does this issue deserve what are the moral conditions for our rule of law? Don't you think deeper? Would it not be this minister's intention to initiate this process? Mr. Chairman. A lot of good has already been said in this debate about undermining the rule of law. Undermining the rule of law takes place in a variety of ways. This can be done by forcing criminals into local politics. We've also seen the serious attack on lawyers. But undermining also takes place by means of trafficking in human beings and exploitation through prostitution. Those who have followed the discussion on prostitution legislation a little over the last decade know that there are really nice plans. Only, they never make it to the law. Even now there is nothing more than a draft legislative proposal. I know that this Chamber is also partly guilty of this, because the seriousness of this situation is not recognised, but I also appeal to this Minister. Isn't tackling these degrading practices a priority now? Should we continue to accept that criminals are laundering money and making money from the oppression of women? Come on, Christian Union and CDA, put your fist on the table during the coalition talks! In the field of drugs, the rule of law is also at stake... Yeah, this was entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u11	And Mrs. Bikker's gonna fall for it, too. I would, of course, first of all like to tell the SGP spokesperson that he would be ashamed of himself as a senator at the coalition talks. We don't want that. We've already found a lot of that here today. At the same time, I strongly underline his question to the cabinet. Because this approach to trafficking in human beings is urgently needed; I have also recalled this in my text. The legislation that can provide clarification on this point and also give clarity in the Netherlands has been going on for years. It is again for consultation, but you have in mind the underlining of the question which is completely correct and very urgent under state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u12	Thank you for that support and very much for guarding those lines so purely. But, of course, you can just run into each other somewhere. You know how that works. But thank you for this response. Mr. Chairman. The rule of law is also at stake in the field of drugs. I am not even talking about the half-hearted tolerance policy or the weed experiments. But I think mainly of the Netherlands as a drug paradise in the world. Recently I heard that the ports of Amsterdam and Rotterdam are heavily controlled, but that importing drugs through other seaports like Vlissingen is a piece of cake. Is that right? Wouldn't it be a good idea if this government in Zeeland also tackled drug crime? While the marines remain inland, serious reinforcement of the approach to crime in the Zeeland ports is the least that can replace it. Mr. Chairman. It's tempting to look at the big cities to fight the undermining. A lot of investments go there. But the proverbial idyllic countryside also runs the risk of gradually being undermined. The problems of the underworld that appear above ground should not be underestimated. Precisely in villages and neighborhoods, government authority can sneak out in favour of local criminal subcultures. It is precisely there that a strong local structure should be used to undermine the undermining. I would like to call on the Minister to work on strengthening the local police and detective force. In the distribution of money and human power they too often lose sight of the fact that the effectiveness of their work is not directly visible. Mr President, another point. "Antisemitism curses our society," said Minister Grapperhaus recently in the House of Representatives. You're right. Jews are extremely overrepresented as victims of discrimination and feel less and less at home in our country. Fortunately, the Minister has announced a number of concrete measures to address this negative trend. But can this approach also be made more visible in society? In the previous parliamentary period, I asked the Minister whether it is not time for an annual anti-anti-Semitic flag at city halls. The Minister wanted to leave this with municipalities, but I ask him to actively promote this through the VNG. I look forward to the Ministers' answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u13	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I call Mr Otten. But first there is an interruption by Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u14	I thought Mr Van Dijk might come back to it himself: discrimination and the logic of the protection of minorities. You are a minority in our country with your political group and perhaps with your faith as well. Secular people and groups, to which I myself belong, are as well. We find protection in the law where it is necessary. You also spoke of anti-Semitism. In part, we also find protection in the treaties. A number of years ago, we held a debate in this House on the ECHR. In that debate, we said that the importance of this ECHR must remain fully emphasised by the government. This ultimately resulted in the Franken motion, which was widely supported by one of your predecessors, Holdijk and interestingly also by Mrs Broekers-Knol. What is Mr Van Dijk's position on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u15	You have not heard from me any calls to withdraw from it or to seek the release of the ECHR. Frankly, we have not deliberately changed our course in this area or anything like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u16	That makes me very happy. But it does lead to another question which I have to ask Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u17	You may.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u18	Has the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats had a collective blackout when assessing the Cliteur motion in the debate on the Remkes Committee? I mean the whole group of two Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u19	That was your question? A collective blackout? No, not consciously. With me, it could have happened, but you know my colleague Peter Schalk: certainly not with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u20	Then I hope that we can get closer to each other as to how it could have happened. In his story, Mr Cliteur argued that we should distance ourselves from the ECHR: setting target criteria and so on, and so on. But the Cliteur motion says that the centre of gravity of power must shift. The power, huh? I have also spoken about this: that is not substantiated. That is, of course, an attack on the triad and within it also an attack on the court's ability to find justice on the basis of treaties. How could it have been possible for the SGP Group to support this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u21	Thank you for your question. I'd like to go into that. First of all, it is good to note that you yourself give a certain interpretation to the motion. We all know how a motion works here. It always contains observations and considerations. If you had to write it down yourself, you would have chosen different words and so on et cetera et cetera. Sometimes I put more emphasis on considerations, then you look more closely at the operative part. We've been looking at the operative part here in particular. My colleague Peter Schalk also expressed this in his explanation of vote. We are talking about a very good balance. The separation of powers is extremely important. We have to watch out for that. In the operative part, it is simply stated, in my own words, that a shift from the centre of gravity of the power of the legislative power to the judicial power is undesirable. That's true in itself. It is about balance and balance, and we can also say that there is nothing wrong with defending the political primacy. We are concerned with balance and balance. You are now reading this in the text of the explanation of vote that was given at the time, as if this motion were almost calling for the abolition of the rule of law or for the removal of the separation of powers. None of that's in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u22	Mr. Backer for the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u23	Finally. In fact, I note that Mr Van Dijk gives an interpretation to the motion which is not the interpretation of the motion as I understood from the author's speech. I regret that, because you always have a fairly pure reasoning of state law. Anyway, I'm gonna have to do it with this statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u24	It is not up to me to defend all the sentences of the motion. If it was Forum's intention to destroy our separation of powers, then Forum will have to go into more detail later, but again: I did not read that in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u25	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I shall now give the floor to Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u26	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs De Blécourt-Wouterse and Mrs Veldhoen on their maiden speeches. Women on top today in the First Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Today, we are discussing with Ministers Grapperhaus and Dekker the annual state of the rule of law. Unfortunately, the state of the rule of law is not great. There are capacity problems in the justice system. There's a considerable backlog of about 100,000 cases. The police detection rate is too low, especially compared to the countries around us. The willingness to report has been decreasing for years, because many people think: it doesn't matter anyway. The police often don't do anything because the D.A.'s office doesn't do anything either. This is how we got caught up in a race to the bottom, where the law of the strongest will increasingly prevail. If we do not do this properly and decisively, in the long term, there will be almost a kind of anarchy, in which everyone will have to solve it themselves, a battle of all against all. We must, of course, avoid this at all costs. Now I can, of course, come here, like some other groups, with a litany of complaints and poignant stories. I could highlight all kinds of abuses about motorcycle gangs, drug criminals and other misery, but at GO we're not so much about complaining, but more about acting decisively. We're looking for ways in which things can be structurally better. This approach, in general, has been lacking for years in Dutch politics of puppets, consultation structures and other endless polder. Minister Grapperhaus is certainly a relief to his predecessors at the Ministry of Justice and Security. For the first time, we're seeing a minister attacking, especially after the shocking murder of attorney Derk Wiersum. As far as we are concerned, Minister Grapperhaus deserves appreciation for his decisive and effective action on the detection and extradition of Ridouuan T. That's how it's gonna be. How are we going to solve the structural problems of detection and prosecution? GO has concrete and effective plans for this. Mr. Chairman. There are basically two legal systems to be distinguished in the investigation and prosecution. On the one hand, that is the current Dutch system, based on the principle of opportunity, whereby the public prosecutor himself decides which cases it will pursue or not pursue. The Dutch prosecutor is dominus litis, lord and master in his own trial, and can decide for himself which cases he prosecutes or dismisses. On the other hand, the system is based on the principle of legality. That means that in the event of suspicion of a crime, the prosecution should in principle investigate and prosecute. In principle, therefore, there is always prosecution, unless the D.A. argues in detail and justified why this is not necessary in this particular case. Among other things, German criminal law has been organised on the basis of this principle of legality. If we now look at the differences in criminal detection rates, we see huge differences between Germany and the Netherlands. Then we will ignore traffic offences, because, as we know, enforcement in this area is regulated in the Netherlands pico bello, because it is still a lucrative source of revenue for the government. In Germany, almost 60% of the crimes are resolved. That's almost three times as much as in the Netherlands. There is also much less dismissal in Germany than in the Netherlands. This Dutch practice with an enormous number of dismissals leads to a system of perverse stimuli, in which the detectives and the police think: we leave it at that, because at the state's attorney's office they don't do anything with it either. That is an important, but certainly not the only, cause of the low detection rates. Crime now pays too much in the Netherlands. That needs to change as far as we are concerned. We therefore call on the Minister of Justice to study the possibility of introducing this principle of legality in the Netherlands. We will table a motion on this matter in the second term. Mr. Chairman. Of course, the capacity of the police force and certainly of the detectives must also be increased. We want to do this by making extra money available to police academies, but also by significantly improving the conditions of employment for police officers, so that the professions of police officers and detectives become more attractive. This is also urgently needed, because the police force is ageing. In the coming years, there will be a huge outflow that cannot be met by current policies. Governing is forward-looking. So that policy needs to be adapted now, because there is a delaying effect before those new police officers come out of the police academy. The absenteeism of the national police is also extremely high due to many reorganisations and labour disputes. That does not help the capacity of the police either. Can the Minister of Justice and Security provide us with the most recent absenteeism figures in the national police force and can the Minister indicate what concrete measures he is going to take to reduce this absenteeism quickly in order to increase capacity in the short term? Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to justice. As recalled, the delay in cases in the courts is high and the duration of the average trial is increasing. Many cases are also by fax or mail. In our opinion, this could be a little more efficient. We therefore call on the Minister to take the ICT policy vigorously into account in the case-law and to learn lessons from the disastrous KEI project in the case-law. This would cost EUR 7 million, but was stopped after EUR 220 million had been spent. No KEI, but 220 million gone. It is particularly important to have clear and decisive guidance. That's a lesson that the Dutch government doesn't seem to drop if you see the endless parade of failed government ICT projects passing by. Mr. Chairman. At the end of last year, in the Justice Committee, we had an interesting exchange of views with spokesmen from the so-called Counter-Light Courts, a group of concerned judges and counsellors, including the capacity problems in the judiciary. In particular, these discussions showed that the very long training requirements for experienced lawyers, for example from the legal profession, with often years of experience in specific jurisdictions, constitute a serious obstacle for such people to become judges. We think constructively about this problem. Can the Minister for Justice and Security inform us whether a dispensation scheme for such experienced lawyers is now being worked on in the judiciary, so that this influx can be achieved more quickly and the delays can be resolved more quickly? As far as we are concerned, this practical solution could produce rapid results. That would deserve serious study. We would also like to hear from the Minister what other concrete measures he intends to take in the short term in order to further increase the capacity of the judiciary. Mr. Chairman. As far as our group is concerned, the state of our rule of law also has a number of other aspects which have so far been neglected in the debate. Take the relationship between the central government and the local authorities, which has recently deteriorated. Several Cabinets-Rutte have willingly and knowingly entered into legal commitments with the province of Zeeland about the move of the marine barracks from Doorn to Vlissingen. That was an unfortunate plan from day one with foreseeable problems. Indeed, these problems were not long overdue, but were postponed for ten years by the Rutte Cabinets. The way in which the province of Zeeland is now being treated is, of course, out of the question in a rule of law. We would like to hear the views of the Minister for Legal Protection on this issue. How does the Minister for Legal Protection intend to adequately compensate the Zeeuwen for this mispolicy, I might add, of the Rutte Cabinets? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would also like to talk about undermining, namely the undermining of the rule of law that is taking place in Lower House and Upper House due to various bad legislative projects. Take the unholy Environment Act. This leads to a greatly reduced legal certainty and puts the ball fully in court, which will lead to many more capacity problems in the case-law. Think, for example, of the PAS legislation on nitrogen, which was adopted without criticism by this Parliament, with the support of a group that claims that there is no nitrogen problem at all. During the debate on the Environment Act of a while ago, I also called for an oath to be taken by us, like doctors, as members of the First Chamber. It should be: I will not accept or facilitate bad legislation. I repeat this call. I would like to conclude by calling on my fellow Members of Parliament to give greater consideration to the quality and feasibility of future legislation in future, so that we too can contribute here in the First Chamber to strengthening the state of the rule of law. We look forward to the exchange of views with the ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u27	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Finally, Mr Nicolaï has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u28	Mr. Chairman. Congratulations to women on top, Mrs De Blécourt and Mrs Veldhoen. I'm the last speaker, the fence shutter. I am not going to talk about all kinds of issues that have been dealt with in detail by everyone in their own way. I'm going to deal with a separate subject. This may be a bit unexpected for some, but it is linked to the rule of law. And I tell you immediately that it is very topical now that the King has apologized in Indonesia today. I am going to talk about accepting responsibility by our rule of law for slavery of people and trading in slaves made by the Netherlands in the past. I will start with two quotes, including Mr Cliteur. The fact that I am sorry means, above all, that I am sorry that he is not speaking today. "Are animals the slaves of the 21st century? Shouldn't animals be aligned with slaves, women and gays, with their emancipation struggle?" That is not a quote from Mr Cliteur. That was above a piece in the Groene Amsterdammer of September 30, 2009. In an interview in de Volkskrant of 15 December 2019, colleague Cliteur said the following. "In our dealings with animals, we may look back on slavery in 500 years from now." Mr. Chairman. The Animal Party sees standing up for animal rights indeed as an emancipation struggle similar to the fight against slavery. This struggle led to the abolition of slavery by the Dutch legislature on 1 July 1863. This was an important step of the rule of law in the Netherlands. Today we are talking about the rule of law. Today, I would like to talk about slavery, the slavery of people. I do so in the knowledge that it is still, and unfortunately, a bridge too far for many people to talk about the slavery of animals, of which nearly 650 million a year are sacrificed on the altar of the economy, after a short and miserable life in our country. Without charge, without doing anything wrong, simply because their lives are made of penniless change; more than 70,000 per hour and over 1,200 per minute. As with any abolition movement, the only legitimacy is: if we stop doing this, the economy will collapse. This has been said in the abolition of human slavery, in the abolition of child labour and in looking away from animal suffering in the bio-industry. At such times, retaining forces prefer to talk about the state of the economy rather than the state of the rule of law. Mr President, I come to the heart of my story. Debates on the rule of law often concern institutions, the implementation and enforcement of legislation, the fight against crime and the balance in the trias politicians. Today's debate is an illustration of this. But the rule of law is not abstract in practice, and it can only function as a state of law if it is explicitly supported by citizens with a sense of law. People make the rule of law. Knowing moral and legal awareness, that, if it is good, everyone carries in them and everyone thinks it is worth striving for, is the basis of the rule of law and not the theory in learned treatises. Mr. Chairman. Can I ask you, the ministers and my fellow senators a simple question which is not without importance for this debate? The question is, where does it say that the judge must apply the law? Is that in the Law on the Judicial Organisation? And where does it say that this law must be applied and respected? Anyone who is embarrassed will suggest: that will be in the Constitution. Then there is the follow-up question: where does it say that the Constitution must be respected? You know what I mean. Even if there's another treaty or something higher coming out of the hat, we're left with the same question. The only answer is, therefore, that the law must be observed, including by the judge, as a result of a general principle of law. This is also explicitly stated by the Supreme Court and the Administrative Court of the Council of State. Mr. Chairman. How beautiful is that? The whole structure we are talking about today is ultimately based on a right-wing consciousness, on a conviction of all those who belong to our legal community. A community is a historical entity. The consciousness of justice is evolving. It is not fixed in cold texts, in bare institutions or solidified in legislation. It is a process in which moral values and legal concepts are passed on and supplemented from generation to generation. What everyone here now experiences as a right is not independent of views of law and morality that have been established over the centuries. In other words, there is a thread linking the living rule of law with its past; I shall come back to that later. On 1 July 2020, the abolition of slavery is commemorated more than 150 years ago. On that date, our legal community is confronted with a thread that connects it with a partially repressed past, with legal beliefs that have now been abandoned, with the right to now count as injustice, but which cannot be banished from the history of the consciousness of justice. Mr. Chairman. History haunts us all. Auschwitz was commemorated on 26 January this year. The Holocaust is still nearby. For some of us, as I estimate, in their environment, there will be someone whose family member or acquaintance has experienced the horrors of the persecution of the Jews. "How could persecution, deportation and murder occur almost unhindered, in the eyes of so many." That is what Prime Minister Mark Rutte asked himself at the national Auschwitz commemoration which took place in Amsterdam in January this year. And he asked us what we "would have done ourselves." That question is justified, because if we are the carriers of the rule of law, the recognition and fight against injustice must not be something we give away to the institutions of the state. No, it should be part of our own awareness of justice and our own commitment to justice. As I have said, our current awareness of the law is based on what has been passed on to us by previous generations and may have been rebuilt in the light of new values and insights. History, that which is behind us and which we did not actually participate in at the time, can never be brushed away. Unrighteousness that took place in our legal community may also be held up for future generations who bear the rule of law. Prime Minister Rutte expressed this strikingly at the end of his speech: "We, the generation of after the war, have the task of continuing to commemorate (...) to be accountable again and again." Mr. Chairman. Accountability means recognizing the thread that connects us with the development of the general awareness of the law. So don't duck, but see that injustice in the eyes. Those who look away from injustice are guilty of their survival. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister took another special step: "I apologize today on behalf of the government for the state action of that time." And he did that because "too many Dutch officials carried out what the occupying forces asked them to do." "Our public authorities have failed," he concluded. That was an important gesture. Making excuses he found in place "now that the last survivors are among us." Mr. Chairman. I told you, the Holocaust is still nearby. By the way, the mission to commemorate will always remain significant, even if the last survivors are no longer among us. There is a national Auschwitz commemoration day, there will be a Holocaust Museum. It is historical injustice that is part of the history of our rule of law. Again and again, new generations must be aware of this and it is a task of the rule of law to promote it. Hence the memory of Auschwitz, hence the Holocaust Museum. Mr. Chairman. Two weeks after Mark Rutte's apology about "the state intervention at that time," a meeting of the NiNsee, the National Institute of Dutch Slavery History and Heritage took place. Of course, it came up that the government has still not apologized about the past of slavery. In 2001, Minister Van Boxtel spoke of "deep regret, prone to repentance," but carefully avoided the word "excuses." At the commemoration of 150 years of abolition of slavery on 1 July 2013, Deputy Prime Minister Asscher also did not apologize: "I look back and express deep regret and remorse about how the Netherlands has dealt with human dignity." The "repentance toward repentance" had now become simply "repentance." Apparently, we need to watch for minor word changes. In 2018, Mayor Aboutaleb of Rotterdam made a call for national apologies. And in Amsterdam, a majority in the city council has now submitted an initiative proposal for formal apologies to "all the people and descendants who have suffered from slavery." Don Cedar of the Christian Union, who supported the proposal, said that "every year it is the question of what words are used this year in the commemoration of slavery, not to mention excuses." He spoke of "an acrobatic dance that takes place every year, again this year, probably. People are mistaken in how this is experienced: downright humiliating." Mr. Chairman. Yeah, that acrobatic word dance, that goes around the hot stuff, gives the impression that the government doesn't make a big apology about slavery and the slave trade. I say "happily": isn't that the sensitive point? Doesn't making excuses for many not have a connection with feelings, looking into each other's eyes and asking the other to apologize for something you're guilty of? It is not without meaning that Mark Rutte in his speech during the Auschwitz remembrance pointed out that "the last survivors are still among us." Maybe he was looking them in the eye at the time. And where he apologized for the cooperation of Dutch government officials with measures demanded by the occupying forces, the government took the blame for that government function. Well, then you can apologize. The same applies to the acts of violence committed by the Dutch side in Indonesia. King Willem-Alexander was right to apologize today. Mr. Chairman. Our group would have no difficulty in apologizing for the participation of the Netherlands in the slave trade and maintaining slavery. But then there are questions. Who was to blame? Who do we look in the eyes? If it's an apology, who's going to offer it? On behalf of the Dutch people, including "all the people and descendants who have suffered from slavery," so the victims? And to the extent that excuses are linked to feelings, will it not be possible to say that the blame should actually be placed on the shoulders of those who were involved in the practice of slavery and the slave trade? That would be so fair. Cities and families that have benefited economically from it, should we, in the first instance, knock on the door as debt to be known? That Rotterdam and Amsterdam are thinking of excuses is, in that light, self-evident. Historical research has shown how involved these municipalities were in slavery. Mr. Chairman. A rule of law which is borne by a community of law, as I have said, bears co-responsibility for its history. Historical injustice, although committed two centuries ago, is injustice that the rule of law can also be charged today. Prof. Houwink ten Cate put this in the NRC of 1 February this year in words: "There is indeed a transgenerational responsibility for injustice. The Netherlands is a democratic state in which successive governments take over obligations from each other. Every day we carry out treaties and agreements that are 200 years old, and because Thorbecke or King Willem I has signed them, we stick to them. If we feel this historical responsibility, then the responsibility for past crimes also exists," says the professor. But he added something important to that: "This is something other than collective guilt." Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the responsibility of the rule of law, or one more step further away from the legal community, of all those who bear the rule of law. Without guilt, there can be responsibility. This raises the question of how, in the run-up to the commemoration of the abolition of human slavery on 1 July, we should take responsibility for the rule of law. In my view, there has always been unnecessary talk of excuses, which have lost sight of the distinction between guilt and responsibility and the feeling factor has begun to control the discussion. Apologies are for many connected with guilt, with practical actions you regret, with pain that has been done to another. This pain is undeniable, even today, among all the people and descendants who have suffered from slavery. The task of a legal community is to bring the recognition of that pain and of injustice from the sphere of feelings to the domain of justice. This opens up the possibility for everyone to deal definitively with slavery in the domain of law, including those who feel that they are not at all guilty of slavery. In 1863, laws abolishing slavery were passed. Now it is important to adopt a law that takes account of the past of slavery. That's not hard. An example is available. In France, a law was passed on 10 May 2001 with only a few articles of law. Article 1 states that the French Republic recognises that slavery and slave trade have constituted a crime against humanity. And Article 2 states that education and research will have to give the slave trade and slavery the place they deserve. Very clean and compact. No pin to get in between, no collective guilt pronounced, no word acrobatics to spare feelings. A crime against humanity: yes, it was, and that is what we can now pronounce if we recognise the responsibility of the rule of law. I would like to ask the Minister whether this is not the way we should go. A road that actually goes beyond apology, because the community of law has brought the recognition of injustice into the domain of justice, wherever it actually belongs. The explicit recognition of Dutch slavery and slave trade that took place in the past as a crime against humanity can thus be formulated in the law proposed by us. That, Minister Grapperhaus, is a legal issue that falls within the portfolio of the minister present here. In fact, the Dutch authorities have already begun to deal with the type of activities covered by Article 2 of the French Law. The subsidy for the NiNsee is now so I understand structural. There will also be a slavery museum, for which Minister Van Engelshoven has reserved one million a year. And a national monument was already erected to commemorate transatlantic slavery in Amsterdam. The law proposed by our group for the Netherlands provides an excellent opportunity to legally establish the creation and maintenance of a national monument of slavery history, of a knowledge centre of slavery history and of a slavery museum. Our group would like to hear the Minister's views on this path. Our group also asks the Minister to consider whether such a simple law can be formulated by us. Is the Minister prepared to report to the Chamber within two months? I'm considering a motion on this point. On 7 February this year, the President of the Ninsee spoke of a healing effect of possible excuses, especially at this time of increasing racism. The law we are proposing will certainly contribute to this. Mr President, I shall conclude. Back to the injustice that did not occur in the past but in our daily present, the injustice that we literally consume, to which we are literally co-guilty. Do animals also have to wait 100 years, or even the 500 years Mr Cliteur mentioned, before it is recognised that they have been wronged in great and shameful ways? Group president Rutte van de VVD said on 26 March 2009 in the Lower House, quote: "I have always had great difficulty with the bio-industry, with the stacking of pigs in a humane way. Animal welfare is high on our wish list. It's very important. You can always contact us for that. Someone who thinks he can buy a pound of meatloaf for €1 and also thinks this is friendly and tidy, puts his head in the sand." Prime Minister Rutte has been repeatedly addressed by my party, but has not taken sufficient measures to change the situation he himself described as unhuman. This is bad for the sense of justice, it is bad for the state of the rule of law, it is a rule of law which must clearly depart when the state of the economy is at stake and it is time to put its head in the sand. My final words, Mr. Chairman. I would urge my fellow countrymen, including my colleagues in this House, to consider the injustice that animals are being harmed in the past in line with the injustice that slaves, women, children and minorities have suffered in the past. Not because the victims mentioned are similar, but because the injustice that has been done to them and which has not been widely recognised or compensated to this day is similar. This shows how difficult it is for us, as representatives and designers of the rule of law, to recognise guilt or responsibility and adapt our behaviour accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u29	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Let me look at the ministers and see that they need five minutes of suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u30	We now need the government's response in the first term. I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u31	Mr President, thank you for that. This year we celebrate 75 years of liberation. In this context, the cabinet has repeatedly, on various occasions, considered the importance of oppression and freedom, the state of the rule of law and the role that the government must play in it. I was pleased that your Member Nicolaï also referred to what was said on the occasion of the Auschwitz commemoration. There our Prime Minister said that the government has failed to take a role against the persecution of Jews, Roma and Sinti. And he apologized on behalf of the cabinet. It is good that that has finally been said. I certainly say that when I look at the Ministry of Justice during World War II. Professor Verburg's historiography on this subject makes it painfully clear how much, in those dark years of Nazi rule, there was no respect for the rule of law in existing institutions either. The institutions were there. They had been around for over a century, but there was no rule of law. That is why I am offering here a copy of History of the Ministry of Justice, by way of congratulations and compliments to the two members of your Chamber who made their maiden speech today. It could be said that I have them here in the light of the corona situation, so that the two ladies can pick up the books themselves without any contact. I'm even willing to step back a little bit. It could also be said that in this way you and the Registrar could themselves be eyewitness to the fact that it is unlikely that each of these books will cost more than €50; otherwise we would have a completely different extension to this debate. But I don't want to cover it up or prettier about it. This historiography really shows how painfully we failed at Justice in the Second World War to try to maintain the rule of law with what was still possible. Mr. Chairman. We can continue to remember our liberators for taking us out of that lawless state. But as I said at the commemoration of Operation Market Garden last September in Arnhem, the rule of law that we now cherish is not given. It's a big good. It's a base and a castle at the same time of our society. It is as much the people as the means, as the institutions as the guarantees and the rules as the freedoms that govern our rule of law. But the rule of law requires constant maintenance. At least we're obliged to pay attention to it. That is why I would like to say out loud that I appreciate the fact that we are holding this debate with your Chamber every year in the light of everyday pressure, as I can say. Maintaining the rule of law also means maintaining the separation of powers, the trias politician. In an open society with a well-functioning rule of law, there should also be a regular debate on the trias politician. This should be about whether it still provides a clear distribution of powers. We must bear in mind that the distribution of powers must not be the means, but the purpose of the triad. This inevitably means that the three powers will often touch each other's territory and sometimes even be able to enter. I do not want to go into detail here about the issue of the administrative test put forward by Mr Backer in one of his interruptions, but we have to realise that the judge in administrative matters is doing a marginal test, not a full test, on the board. That would be a good thing, too. Anyway, I was talking about hitting and sometimes entering each other's territory. That's not a problem. On the contrary, it is part of the division of power. As long as it is clearly visible, it can be controlled, by adjusting the other powers and, of course, as long as it contributes to the ultimate goal of the trias politician, there is nothing against it. On the contrary, a society has an overriding interest in the formation and exploitation of its rule of law by three powers which are separate but at the same time connected. In doing so, we must realise that justice is not the same as politics. Politics is by definition dynamic. On the other hand, law has the status quo as its starting point. That's what we call legal certainty. Mr. Chairman. I see no I.D. to intervene in the operation of the trias politicians as described by me. That does not relieve me of reflecting on the implementation in practice in the cabinet but also in the debate with your two Chambers. The starting point for me is that we have a carefully built-up rule of law, in which institutions have a solid position, and the space and means to live up to that position. I am not concerned about this area in this open and stable democracy. We have a sharp and assertive controlling power; I would almost "q.e.d." in this building. say. We also have an expert and solid departmental structure of the executive. We also see that there is a sitting and standing magistrate that both excels in a consistent approach to law and the rule of law. Whether the three powers then balance each other should be discussed at regular intervals in a debate, as I said. We shouldn't be afraid of that either. That debate must certainly be held at regular intervals. But then the means. This cabinet has deliberately invested in our rule of law in recent years by using additional resources for police and judiciary, including the Public Prosecutor's Office. But also additional means to prevent crime, to prevent social derailment that could lead to the violation of the rule of law. Cyber security resources, an extremely important subject in the context of our society. The policy response to the report of the Scientific Council for Government Policy is now also complete, including an immediate discussion of what the so-called Citrix crisis has taught us for lessons. Finally, additional resources specifically aimed at combating undermining crime. Mr. Chairman. For the sake of time, I will not be bothering you here for very long with my extensive motivation in the fight against undermining crime. I will come back to a number of questions later. But I want... I would like to emphasise the importance of the delta plan already mentioned by your colleague, Mr Rombouts. This is a poison in our society that young people have been in danger of sucking into a hole since the age of eight, nine years, which is devastating for them and ultimately undermining our rule of law; hence the term. This means that a great deal of additional resources are needed to implement not only structural repression, but also all forms of prevention and, above all, to ensure that those who are involved in this undermining crime, without regard to the individual, as one of your Members rightly asked, take away everything they thought was in return. Mr. Chairman. However, it takes time to get the extra resources that the cabinet has put in place to do their job. For example, the extension of the formation of the national police force by 1,111 FTE will only be achieved at the end of 2022. I will come back to this later in the context of the questions. Even so, I would stress, tackling undermining crime does indeed, as Mrs Veldhoen asked herself, require the use of structural resources. The balance of the trias politician is also strengthened by giving due consideration to the possibilities and inability of our executive organizations in the design of our laws and the role that we, as employers, sometimes implicitly assign to the courts in the interpretation and application of the standards laid down in those laws. Mr. Chairman. In any case, the maintenance of our rule of law requires everything that I, as Minister of Justice and Security, am constantly committed to doing so. If I thought I might have heard from a single Member that he or she hadn't noticed that I had spoken in that sense, I would almost be fond of you, but I wouldn't want to do that to you, Mr...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I would like to emphasise once again that they are of top quality, whether they are in place four or five or, like the police, international in position six in terms of professionalism, integrity, digitality and so on. Maybe all that's true. We have a society that has always invested in and continues to invest in the rule of law and institutions. Mr. Chairman. I come to the answer of a number of the questions. If you will allow me, I would like to begin by addressing very briefly the fundamental question raised by Mr Nicolaï. That was a question of principle which he addressed to all of us, at least to my colleague and to me: where does it say that the law must be observed? I have to admit that I have had lessons from a number of professors other than a few who have passed here today, but also from Mr Nicolaï. He knows that; he's still sitting in his place. I have always learned that it is ultimately the result of the social contract, that we all, whether you refer to Locke, Hobbes or other legal philosophers from several centuries ago, have joined forces to form a society that is a rule of law. I think it is very good that Mr Nicolaï has asked this question, because this is, as far as I am concerned, the answer. If within a minute we have here today that we are only handing out an elbow tick instead of shaking our hands, Mrs Stienen was not there at the time, so now he is looking at something strange, then it is also a sign that, if the government makes a single appeal, we obviously understand that this contributes to the strength of our society and thus to our rule of law. Mr. Chairman. That being said, I now come to a number of questions that have been asked on a pressing subject. That's the undermining crime. There are questions from Mr Van Wely, Mr Recourt, Mrs De Blécourt and Mr Rombouts. First of all, on the basis of these questions, the next reflection. In this Chamber we have talked about the advancing undermining crime. In the two and a half years that I am a ruler, I notice the following: where the term "undermining" produced a reaction in many circles two and a half years ago as "Excuse me? What's that?', Everyone now sees the social picture very clearly. This organized crime often goes as a stealth poison among ordinary people in ordinary neighbourhoods. I would add, from personal experience after the many work visits I have made in the country, that it is often just the neighborhoods where ordinary people live, who simply do their best, but who often have a bit more difficulty in their immediate living environment. Mr. Chairman. Sneaking corruption in certain parts of local society is a serious problem. It threatens the integrity of public administration. It also literally, as we have seen recently, leads to the threat to directors, journalists and our vulnerable representatives of the rule of law. This is the third debate I have with you on this. I have always said in these debates that I see this as a very serious undermining of our rule of law. We need to find a new balance between ourselves in order to get out, a balance which, on the one hand, still puts the restraint in the use of state power first, but, on the other hand, provides modern citizens with the security that is desirable in that situation. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, the threats have unfortunately manifested themselves more strongly in recent years. I don't have to mention all these threats to people. A number of you have already considered the terrible murder of a lawyer, Derk Wiersum. I have, of course, received the compliments for the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, which came from Mr Otten and which were accidentally addressed to me, and I will pass them on. Mr Otten said it himself: much is really needed, a broad offensive against organised undermining crime. It is the reduction of established dominant positions and the inviolability of organised crime. My bitter experience is that organised crime is also holding more and more people in unsuspecting sectors and positions in its stranglehold. One time to participate in a wrong sales license, one time to participate in a wrong transaction, one time as a customs officer think "I'm gonna let something go" or "I'm gonna work on something," once with a forklift truck on the Schiphol grounds, taking something you shouldn't have to take, and you're finally in the net of those organizations. Mr. Chairman. A prerequisite for dealing with organised crime is a substantial investment in the coherent and wide-ranging package mentioned by Mr Rombouts: roll-up, removal and prevention. In the outline plan, you have already seen that we are working on it. I expect to be able to share with your Chamber in early June. I come to Mr Recourt's question: that will, of course, depend very much on how we come out with structural resources in the spring. In 2019, in addition to the EUR 100 million, an additional EUR 110 million was occasionally added, and then another EUR 10 million was added in the framework of security and surveillance. But that is, I stress, virtually incidental money. All the experts say that if we want to tackle this, we are eight to ten years in the process of rowing back to the point where, according to the experts, we were perhaps 18 years ago. With that occasional money a lot of reinforcement plans have already been put in place, which are monitored by the WODC. I say this in response to Mr Recourt's question. In addition, the regions have been asked to report on the actual use of these funds. This has yet to be evaluated, but it does not alter the urgency of the structural use of resources, including in the area of tackling money laundering. In response to Mrs Bikker's question on this subject, all risks with the greatest potential impact and resilience of the policy instruments aimed at preventing and mitigating these risks for the Netherlands are regularly identified. This is done on behalf of my colleague Hoekstra van Financiën and myself. You may have noticed that we have been very much built up there in recent times. That works. We can already see that the combination of different services in the approach at least has a higher yield. Experts from the various organisations are involved, but also the umbrella and branch organisations of all institutions, including, of course, financial institutions such as banks. Mr. Chairman. In the area of organised crime, we are currently evaluating precisely where the vulnerabilities in the systems are located. In June last year, the Minister of Finance and I sent the bill plan of handling money laundering to the House of Representatives. We go through that every two months with the parties involved to see where we stand with it. Part of this is strengthening the prioritisation of financial institutions. This means that they must also make sufficient investments on their side and, of course, there must also be a very clear tone at the top.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u32	Thank you to the Minister for this answer. At the same time, my question went a little bit wider and a little deeper. Now it might be included in the outcome he promises in a few weeks, months, but what I think is important is that we are not just looking at money laundering legislation for banks. We also need to look at the broad financial sector. Mrs De Blécourt also spoke about the Zuidas and the interwovenness between the upper world and the underworld, which can take place too easily. I think it is very important that the public authorities have a clear picture of the vulnerable areas and that not only the apparatus of the Minister of Justice, but also the FIOD, the people who belong to Minister Hoekstra, are able to work with them. My challenge to the Minister was to investigate the field as widely as possible and thus make a systematic analysis of where the white spots fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u33	Yes. I am talking about the financial sector. I shall now turn to the next question about other departments, but first to the financial sector. It is as Mrs Bikker describes it. We are working with the industry itself to formulate where the weaknesses might be, in order to identify what should be used to overcome those weaknesses. The element of disruption is also a very important principle. So it is not just a question of detecting what has happened, but also of harassing the criminals where they intend to do certain money laundering and other business. This also means that, with the help of the industry, you have to be very preventive in the approach. That has an impact on the sector, because it needs to be included. He's got to be a part of it. You have seen in recent publications that the large banks have actually expanded their departments considerably. And then we should not talk about the past, but about what is happening at least now. A second thing is that in that Multidisciplinary Intervention Team, which you were able to recognize in the outline plan sent to your Chamber a few months ago, not only the detectives, but also the services, so FIOD and Tax Service are next to Customs and KMar. The different disciplines also run through these services. If you were to go to the police for work, which, by the way, I would very much like to invite your Chamber, to the people who are now putting MIT together, you will see that there is a detective and a tactical detective, a forensic detective and a digital detective. They were brought together from all services, including from the FIOD and the Tax Administration, in order to make a huge extra blow. It takes a lot of structural money to actually achieve that. It is primarily aimed at making a huge quantum leap, a great leap in knowledge and awareness of what is happening, and I cannot say enough about the local and regional authorities that are confronted with the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u34	I am pleased that the Minister is working hard on this. At the same time, I still see too much when I read the documents on this subject, that it is a responsibility of the Justice Department. But for the financial world, the integrity and having it in order that there is not more and more undermining in it and that we see underground tactics in the upper world, much is needed. I would now, of course, like to follow the Minister and see how the MIT approach is going to work. At the same time, I will remain very critical of this, because I really believe that the Ministry of Finance can make a good and significant contribution to this. I also hope that the Minister will pay particular attention to how this point is set up in the documents he sends to us in some time's time. Well, he's almost whispering it right now. I hope he does that so loudly in the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u35	I want to answer that hope immediately and not be vain, because this is something, said in the microphone, that is in several departments. This also applies to the subject of cybersecurity. You're talking about prevention. I also discussed this with Mr Rombouts about the weed experiment. If I want to achieve some degree of success in this, I need not only to work to strengthen and supplement the local authorities, because they are on the local problem, but also with other departments: Social Affairs and Employment, Education, Culture and Science, and Health, Welfare and Sport. They have a very important role to play, for example, in the context of youth care. But there's got to be one who's gonna hunt it down. We are not talking about this today, because there is not much to ask about it in the field of cybersecurity. There's gotta be one that's gonna push us to get ahead of that. I see that as an important role for Justice and Security, because the two still go together in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u36	Mrs. Bikker, third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u37	The Minister gave a nice answer, but I have not yet heard that he is indeed sending this to the Chamber. I think it would be important to conclude that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u38	With all due respect and virtue, I have said before that I assume that I will be able to send this to both Chambers in June. Then I have also been able to process exactly the possible outcomes of discussions on the Spring Note, because that is an important subject for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u39	First of all, I wish the Minister every success in finding structural money in order to be able to persevere in the fight against organised crime. My question is on another subject, which Mrs Bikker also mentioned. I would like to raise the issue of morality, namely that part of our upper world, or financial services or other services, is amoral. Fortunately, I hear the Minister saying that that side of crime is going to be dealt with as well. This is done in full, with the Tax Administration and other services. How do we arrange for it to be visible in a sense? How do we ensure that we set the standard, including for those who seem to be doing a fantastic, legitimate job, which cannot be done? How do we make it visible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u40	That's a good point. Hence my commitment to the financial sector alongside that of my colleague in the finance sector. This set of standards should also, to a large extent, also apply to the sectors, the professionals themselves will have to come. At least, the recognition that that is the norm. There too, repression plays an important role. I am not going to mention professional groups for a moment, but you will have to show that people who cooperate with organised crime, even though they still have such a neat business or profession, seemingly, are also sucked into their criminality. That's one. Two. It may sound a bit remarkable, but you will therefore have to get into the preventive sphere that professions will also become much more aware of the importance of staying away from and even reporting them at first signals of this type of activity. We are already seeing this very clearly in the financial sector and in the services sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u41	That's good to hear. I'm going to make one more point more concrete. In the case of settlements, which I am not opposed to in principle, one of the conditions for settlement may be confidentiality. Can the Minister, in the context of that standard, discuss with the Public Prosecutor that this condition is not imposed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u42	The complicated thing is that this is basically the policy of the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is still the case, when it comes to high transactions, that the Minister is involved at the end of the journey. But I would like to stress once again that, in the run-up to that, the Minister has no authority or anything like that. That's the way it's supposed to be. As your Chamber is aware, we are working to lay down this involvement in high transactions with an independent body. Not that this minister could not be independent of that, but I think it is the most sensible thing for society to show very clearly that an independent body is looking at this. And then, even if there is a later independent body, it is still primarily up to the Public Prosecutor to make the weighing of how one wishes to dress a transaction. And this Minister always has the political responsibility for that, so there is also the possibility of parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u43	My first question is actually: has the Minister come to the end of his response to the question of undermining? Or are there going to be at least 10 or 12 questions answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u44	No, there's a lot of questions left, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u45	Then I'll stay in peace for a while, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u46	Then Mrs. De Blécourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u47	I have a question for the Minister. If I understand correctly, Mr Recourt is actually calling for a cultural change. I understand that very well. I think that cultural change also involves information. Let me mention cyber security. I don't think it's gotten through very much, not even to our MPs. 'Cause if you go into that a little bit more, you'd have to cover all the cameras off your phone. I don't think anyone here is doing that, and I'm looking at myself. I would actually like to ask: is there any thought of more thorough information, so that we can bring about this cultural change?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u48	The French saying "frappez toujours" applies here. So I'm going to go into English, because we've been hearing this a little less lately in the EU: never washed a good crisis. We have to realise that the Citrix crisis at least for me and for the state CIO, that is the one that is responsible at the Home Office for how the government deals with everything in the field of cyber security, has resulted in the positive residue that suddenly a huge blow has been made in cyber security awareness. And that's really necessary. De Blécourt rightly points out that, in many situations, we are still dealing with digital means in a way that we would never deal with our precious things around our own home. Who thought about leaving home this morning without turning on the thieves' claws and locking the door three times? At least you will, if you have followed the previous campaigns on high impact crime of the government. So I understand that point very well and I think it is quite right. With all these public campaigns, we are constantly working on this. By the way, your First Chamber is now in a new composition, chairman, and I encourage the members of your standing committee or the members who have a camera on their phone and want to know how that is going, through you very much, to visit the National Cyber Security Centre once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u49	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u50	I do indeed have a number of points on this undermining, as a result of questions. Mr Rombouts asked for that. So I have already said something about the involvement of other departments. I assume that's been said enough about that. Making society resilient is a very important point and I need other departments to do so. So you can also see my journey of the past few months through schools and my conversations with school boards. We looked at how we can contribute and complement from the Justice Department and help make pupils more resilient and those involved, without interfering with all existing programmes. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijk pointed out a painful point that is there when we see the Netherlands as some sort of drug paradise. There has been a cooperation agreement for the ports of the south-west in particular in Zeeland and Moerdijk for a long time. In it, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the comprehensive police of the Zeeland-West Brabant Unit and of the National Unit, the Royal Marechaussee and customs cooperate. Information is also shared. The arrondissementsparket Zeeland-West-Brabant also has a dedicated prosecutor for the seaports. Then there is close cooperation with a number of other ports of Zeeland and with the ports of Ghent, Moerdijk, Rotterdam and Antwerp. Then there's another Core Group of Cocaine Flows. This is an operational consultation involving those involved in the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, customs, the KMar and Belgium. Finally, there is a partnership between a number of EU Member States, all dealing with the transport of drugs by sea, in order to cooperate on this issue. The Mayor of Rotterdam has rightly called once again for attention to be paid to the importance of liaisons in the countries of origin. The cabinet has also made an extra effort on such a commitment in countries such as Colombia, so that we not only look on this side of the stick, but also on the side where it comes from. Then we go to a completely different point: the undermining of the countryside. Mr Van Dijk was right to draw attention to this. Of the occasional resources from the coalition agreement, 85 million were allocated to regions. This is based on submitted reinforcement plans. One of the red threads is the approach to undermining in vulnerable areas, including agricultural areas. What Mr Van Dijk says about this can I confirm from personal perception, but also from empirical studies: that approach is really needed there. It is precisely in those areas that people are severely intimidated and threatened if they do not participate in these activities. Mr Van Dijk also asked about the ratio of undermining to prostitution. As is well known, prostitution policy is aimed at regulating the industry and strengthening the social position of sex workers. It is also important from the point of view of my anti-undermining policy, for the simple reason that it sounds very cynical that trafficking in human beings and illegal prostitution are a kind of financing model for the greater undermining organised crime. Mr President, I think I have answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u51	I would like to thank the Minister for the response, even when it comes to the Zeeland ports. I have another question on that last point, the law on prostitution. The Minister recognizes the importance. My point was, above all, that it takes so long. Can't this go any faster? Can't this be given more priority by the Cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u52	I think it is entirely right that your Chamber should appeal to me. I told you, a lot has been done. On the one hand, things have been done in the area of strengthening the criminal justice chain. On the other hand, there are resources specific to tackling undermining crime. If we really want to take a big step, we will have to make a massive structural effort. In this respect, I have a rather difficult task in the coming weeks in the direction of the Spring Note. To put it another way: from a social point of view, there is competition from quite a few other pressing problems. I don't have to explain that to you. But I say, without exaggerating, that if we do not put a very firm stop to this undermining crime now and use it against it, then over a few cabinet periods you should find that a number of things can no longer be reversed. And I'd really hate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u53	Hasn't the minister forgotten a few questions? I'll mention a few. The question: if we need a structural, long-term approach against undermining, isn't the concept of "deltaplan" a much better picture, including for people inside and outside this house, the Ministry and all those involved, to indicate that this is going to take time, rather than a contour note where you think of a plan for a few years, so a cabinet period? Two, what about the neighborhood agents? You know very well from the discussions with the mayors in the country that they are suffering greatly from the removal of the district agents for the new service you are setting up. Question three was: in securing judges and lawyers, however understandable it may be at first, I am questioning. Shouldn't personal security be done on the basis of predictability and not imaginability? We can't go and protect everyone because it might happen again, can we? Fourth question: in prevention I said I liked it all, but where are the billboards, where are the campaigns? I don't think anyone here in this house has seen a billboard like that or a campaign so far. And finally, you stay a bit stuck in the terminology you were already working on for the motion on the delta plan, which is attached to the three verbs roll up, take it away and prevent it. But in the motion on the delta plan that you have taken up, this is my last question, Mr President, all of which is put in first place, and one of which I asked today whether that is something the Minister is very much opposed to. Really appealing not only to the banking sector, but to all those others, paying cash for cars, what the dance festivals themselves can do about prevention, the notaries, the lawyers, the brokers. Why keep it that way with Justice and Security and don't let the ball do the job, don't let others solve part of the problem for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u54	For security and police capacity, I had, I have to admit, prepared separate answers. But I will say something about that now anyway. But first, let's get the questions straight. As far as prevention is concerned, I am sure that there is still a very important area to be found in these sectors. I have already said something about this: financial and other companies and sectors appeal to the role they play. Yes, I am sure that sectors will have to play a role in this themselves, I have just indicated, but I still think that, if there is a need to push for justice and security, there is a double responsibility to tackle it at least. You will then ask about these prevention campaigns. When it comes to the use of drugs and everything related to them, I have often explained that VWS is in the lead. I am currently working in the passenger seat of the Secretary of State of VWS to roll out a number of things, and he has also rolled out a number of things. In any case, for me, it is an important issue to keep bringing to the attention of VWS what are the newest and new means by which criminals try to seduce people into all kinds of drug use, i.e. new drugs and so on. As long ago as last summer, I co-signed a letter from the Secretary of State expressing the intention to substantially strengthen legislation in this area. This prevention, which I absolutely cannot deny with regard to Mr Rombouts, is something that will continue to call for constant attention. Frappes toujours, I said to Mr De Blécourt in another context. Whether I prefer it or not, I have to leave the lead to the VWS ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u55	My father was a renowned card reader, and he was in the passenger seat. Should you not also read a map for the Secretary of State of the United States, in that we have had enough letters about this provincial policy, but that parties have been brought together in this cabinet who do not fully agree on the usefulness and need of prevention? But if you think that prevention is so important that you really want to do something about it and not just produce letters to Parliament, our group of you would like to see campaigns in which people, young people and vulnerable people are really being addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u56	But that's what happens. I understand very well that Mr Rombouts says that it can never be enough if that happens. I like to take over the card reader's metaphor. But it is, of course, still the case that VWS is finally at the wheel at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u57	This is obvious. Perhaps a little bit back on these other aspects: what to do with the branches other than banks? Do you have any concrete plans for this, will you pay attention to the hunting function? What do you think of the suggestion that a special Commissioner should be set up to bring people together at the climate tables and say: in six months' time I would like to see what you can do about it for the Minister of yours?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u58	A motion has also been adopted in the Lower House, which has been given by me as a Chamber of Appeal, and was therefore essentially supported. This motion means that there will be a separate Directorate-General for this approach, also because it will really be in many years' time. That Directorate-General will also have to include the Commissioner's role, which Mr Rombouts is talking about, because this needs to be dealt with in a structural way. But I would also like to make it quite clear that there are considerable structural resources for this. I have indicated, including in this Chamber, that without these additional structural resources, there is a great deal to be done in these areas. I would like to emphasise one more thing about prevention: the role that this Ministry sees mostly in the area of prevention is to develop, in cooperation with the VWS in particular, a policy in the youth care sector, which smothers criminal careers in the bud. That is the theme that we are most committed to. Mr. Chairman. I'll be at the police station in a minute. I would like to go on to Mr Rombouts' points about the district agents and the question of the principle of personal security in the area of monitoring and securing. First, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u59	I am going to interrupt you, Minister, with your permission, because Mrs Veldhoen also has an interruption. Mr. Janssen is also at the interrupting microphone. So there's still a small file.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u60	First of all, I am pleased to hear that the Minister is strongly committed to prevention, which, as I have already said, has the attention of my group. But I have also referred to offering a different perspective to young people. In my view, this is just as important as prevention. Because you can now see in neighbourhoods that young people are not really able, or at least have a lot of trouble following the straight path. They are drop-outs at school or they do not get internships, where the problem of the explanation of behaviour (vog) plays. You see a lot, including in criminal matters, that young people just don't get a place because they're dealing with that vog problem. How does the Minister view this? Should we not look at a system that makes it possible for young people, even if they have made a mistake in the past, to get an internship or a job? Because all those young people who are thus placed outside society are, of course, an easy victim to the criminal gangs they recruit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u61	It must be possible, especially for young or very young people who have made a mistake, to go somewhere after all. As a government, we must assist and strengthen local authorities where necessary to achieve this, because it is quite simply as Member Veldhoen points out: if you let young people go in this respect, then we are sure that there will be no alternative but to take the wrong path. That wrong path may lead to a dead end in the lesser crime, but it may also gradually lead to a whole criminal career. Some of the activities must certainly be aimed at helping not only children who are still very young and clean with a perspective, but also children who are no longer completely clean.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u62	Do I understand why you say that you are also looking at the vog problem and the criteria that apply to it? I think judges are running into it, and so are suspects and convicts. Does that have the Minister's attention? And if so, is he prepared to look at it with the look of: how do we organise it in such a way that it remains possible for young people to fulfil such functions even after a misstep?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u63	Especially the last one. I have said before that I think we should focus from the Empire on what works locally. Fortunately, there are local differences in the Netherlands. What works locally, in various neighborhoods, neighbourhoods, cities or on land, the best? With what do we help local authority, but also municipalities and other bodies, the best? What is the best way to strengthen them? If it turns out that for young people getting a vog is an issue, then we should look at it. But the general question is: how are we going to ensure that criminal careers are smothered or completely prevented? We're working on that with the local authorities now. But that too means that, in order to move forward, we really need to focus on substantial structural resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u64	Just a little bit more about undermining. I pointed out to the Minister the letter of the Strategic Board Undermining and the tone in it which did not seem very motivating to me. The regions are asked to adjust their ambitions downwards, within the financial resources available. Then there are a number of examples of things that are really necessary, but which cannot be done at the moment. Is it true that the Strategic Board Undermining decides that itself? Would it not be much better to put that down to the Minister and say: do we really think it should be? Or have they been told in advance: whatever you make up, it's 100 million and I don't want to know about the rest? I'm going to say it very harshly, but I'm getting that feeling a little through this letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u65	According to the rather boring accounting principles that we use in the Netherlands and which help to maintain our rule of law consistently, you can spend what you have in cash or what you are sure you will get. That was the 100 million that was occasionally made available. It has always been said, also by me, that it will not be possible to do so. That 100 million has been used and the SBO has played an excellent role in this by ensuring that the money was put into those projects which seemed to have as much effect as possible. And yes, then you will find that a number of projects are not covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u66	No, that's another explanation of a situation. I get that. The Minister will come forward with a detailed plan in June. Does the Minister say that there is no budget for the projects that are now considered necessary? I'm used to seeing where there's even more budget that's not being used at the moment. Then you're gonna phase and then you're gonna see what's possible and what's really necessary right now, if only to keep morale high. The message to the regions to adjust their ambitions downwards is not now the most motivating message.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u67	You have never heard me deliver the message, nor outside The Hague, to my children, especially to adjust their ambitions downwards. I believe that ambition should come from oneself and not from others. That goes for this too. However, it is important to realise that priorities need to be set. Otherwise, I can't tell you. There may also be issues that have not been dealt with with with the first 100 million occasionally, but which may still be foreseen in the future. That's quite possible. As far as structural funds are concerned, we already have a number of priorities outlined in the outline plan, which must at least be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u68	Mr Janssen for his third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u69	Finally, Mr. Chairman. I hope, then, that things have changed in implementation, in the sense of prioritising. But a tone towards services that are eager to tackle things that really have to be done, in the sense that we have asked them to adjust their ambitions downwards, is certainly not the starting point as we share it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u70	Knowing the SBO, in which all services but also the VNG and organisations are present, it is for the best. It's not supposed to be like singing a tune down. Maybe it's just in a transferable sense: we have 100 million and everything above that we can't realize at the moment. My glass is therefore a little more half-full than Mr Janssen's. Mr. Chairman. I come to the point of guarding and securing. Mr Janssen asked what we would do to protect the rule of law. The continuity of the democratic rule of law must be guaranteed at all times. Guarding and securing is an essential part of the broad offensive against undermining crime. Professional groups protecting the rule of law must be able to exercise their profession safely and without fear. We must therefore make structural efforts to this end. Additional measures have also been taken, not only to increase security capacity, but also to coordinate security in a number of ways nationally. But a further structural strengthening of the system is needed. Mr Rombouts, as well as others, have pointed out that we have now had to get policemen out of the base teams out of need. Moreover, they are police officers who meet the qualifications for this work and who are happy to do so. Mayors say that this is a very local tax. And indeed, the very first thing that needs to be done with these structural resources is that monitoring and security are actually organised in that way. Mr Rombouts raised an important question: the predictable/imaginable debate. Not only do I take full responsibility for that, but I also support it. I have made it very clear that we must put adequate personal security on the professions that protect the legal order, especially those who work in files where this is well-imaginable. Again, I've had difficult conversations with mayors about that. I have also regularly received critical but understandable letters about this from those same mayors. I think that we should really, perhaps, make a very sharp blow in that. This must be done in order to provide an adequate response to the business model of these criminals, which is largely based on threats, intimidation and liquidation. So I fully support the fact that this is happening. But I say quite honestly: I have clearly and urgently indicated that these structural resources for monitoring and security are really very much needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u71	Sure. We are very much in agreement on that. My question went back to the situation that has arisen from the moment that this has proved necessary. According to what I call the 'café model' - which is a bit less boring - it is on the puff of those organisations that are actually ahead of the money, which is at the expense of the already tight funding of the normal work that they actually have to do. I understand these structural resources in the future, but I would like to look back at the costs that have been incurred since the start and the organisations themselves started working on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u72	I don't understand the question. Because the resources are being deployed and distributed by me. In this context, I have had to take the extremely painful and unpopular measure of many mayors to use a certain part of it on the surveillance and security of the professions in the court of Justice, so to speak. That is a decision for which, as I have said, I already have a responsibility, but which I fully support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u73	Does this mean that there are no other organisations that bear the costs themselves for the security of prosecutors, lawyers, etc. other than the organisations financed by you, through the people you take out of the normal circuit?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u74	Painfully, this is just out of the budget of Justice and Security. I wouldn't know what other department I'd be knocking at. I really don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u75	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u76	I'm not interested in other departments. I am concerned with the funding that has been made available to the organisations involved, whether it is the Council for Justice or other bodies that have been financed. Is it from the budget now or is it from your general budget of Justice and Security?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u77	That's my police budget. That's why I think it's okay for you to know that a very difficult conversation with mayors, who need these agents very much, when we see that we have to use them for this. That's what Mr Rombouts was critically suggesting earlier: how do you deal with these neighborhood agents? Indeed, I would now like to ensure that we get structural funding for this, so that the temporary solution with people is not all neighborhood agents who have been removed from the base team and help with support. By the way, I have a small PS for Mr Janssen. I don't think that's what he meant, but I've been working on a bill that has now gone into consultation, which looks at the stories of the costs the government has to incur for all kinds of things like this. Cleaning up illegal fireworks, the disposal of drug waste and security costs have so far been public authority according to established case law. You can't tell me that. At least I have a bill on that. I don't know if that's gonna come to your Chamber during this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u78	A domestic announcement: at 5 p.m. exactly, I am going to suspend for dinner break, also in connection with a number of agendas for both Members of Parliament and the Minister. At 6.30 p.m. we will then continue the debate. So at 5:00 p.m., I'm going to suspend. Excuse me if I have to interrupt you for that, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u79	Let me see what else I can do in five minutes. Mr Rosenmöller's motion coincides with the execution of two other routes. First of all, the screening of the criminal justice chain. This review looks at the ratio of supply chain tasks to the capacity of the chain organisation and the possibilities to improve the efficiency and efficiency of the chain. The first results are expected in May of this year. There is also Mr Van Dam's motion, which is in the House of Representatives for those who do not know. It has asked for an initial exploration in the context of what Mr Rosenmöller has asked for a more detailed investigation. On the reconnaissance as requested in the Van Dam motion, I will respond towards the House of Representatives for the summer of this year. I could imagine, but I do hear if your Members are in need of it, that they might wish to send that reconnaissance to your Chamber as well. This spring, we intend to commission an independent study to begin with on the problems outlined by Mr Rosenmöller in his motion. A great deal of work has already been done for this purpose. The command formulation and everything else are almost complete. That independent investigation, which was requested in the Rosenmöller motion, is expected to be completed shortly before the elections next year. Two more things about that. I can't extend the scope of that motion. I understand that I have many responsibilities as Minister of JenV, but at least this is something I cannot go into. But the second is that the security services, as requested, are covered by the Minister of the Interior. So I really do see that as something separate from what Mr Rosenmöller has asked for. So I think that is really something to discuss again with the BZK colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u80	That operative part was exchanged during the APB with the Prime Minister. So it's a cozy construction anyway. But, of course, it is the core, which is the basis of the rule of law. That is why I mentioned the security services, but also the fight against terrorism, the NCTV, which I believe is once again the responsibility of this minister. The essence of the Rosenmöller motion is that the basis of the rule of law is guaranteed. The cabinet, through the Prime Minister, gave an opinion on this. So my question is not: Minister of Justice, do you want to do everything within your department? My question is: do you want to ensure that we have a clear understanding of what is needed for the basis of the rule of law? I would therefore regret that I am now being sent from the cabinet to the wall again, while I am simply talking to a representative of the cabinet and we both have the same intention, namely to maintain the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u81	For that, I really need to look at the text of that motion. Maybe we can do that later on at lunch break or something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u82	Dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u83	Sorry, dinner break. The motion is so clearly conceived that it sees the constitutional institutions in the broadest sense. Part of the NCTV's task could possibly be added to that. But also in view of their very special nature, I think that involving the security services is just outside. It really should be discussed with the Minister for Foreign Affairs first. But at least I will take the text of that motion to my attention at dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u84	After dinner, the Minister's term goes even further. Then hopefully you'll come back to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u85	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u86	Just a brief word on the motion. When I hear the minister quickly and easily, I hear him lift the execution to the next cabinet. But perhaps I do not hear him very well, because it is also possible, of course, that after completion of that investigation, including the appreciation of the present cabinet, measures can be taken in the spring note of that election year, should that investigation prove necessary. Can the Minister shed some light on that? 'Cause that'll save you a year of execution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u87	As regards Mr Van Dam's reconnaissance, which was discussed here after the APB, when the budget for Justice and Security was discussed, it has been said: make sure that you have a kind of sketch around the summer, so that at least in the run-up to 2021 we can use it. Mr Rosenmöller's research is much more thorough and also sets a longer horizon. For example, I understood very clearly from the explanatory statement to that motion, because I was, of course, with that APB. Mr Van Dam sees in his motion the period up to 2025. It simply takes time to start this with an independent investigation and then to debate it with the two Chambers. That's gonna take a little more time. That's why the first reconnaissance is good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u88	Thank you. Then I'm gonna suspend for dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u89	I shall give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security for the continuation of the first-term reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u90	Mr President, thank you. I'm gonna go into a few more topics tonight. Before dinner, I agreed to take a look at the Rosenmöller motion. He's very specific about police, prosecutor's office and justice. Hence the question of enlargement. I've already responded to that. That would, of course, mean a considerable increase in the investigation and it would also take more time if the Minister for Foreign Affairs already felt it. That's what's on him. Mr. Chairman. I would like to touch on a number of issues relating to police capacity, detection, district agents, whether the police should return to BZK, the signing of treaties, the rule of law in the EU, the principle of opportunity and, last but not least, a number of issues relating to mobility, the WRR report on disruption and the abolition of slavery.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u91	I thank the Minister for coming back to this and I regret my defeat in this. Anyway, there's still a world to win, and I'm happy to continue with that. I'll come back to the motion itself. I think that motion is very important. As the Minister now explains, the results are likely to come before the elections. I would very much like to have a firm guarantee from the Minister that these results are there, because this may be essential for future coalition negotiations, I think. It is precisely because I had an exchange of views with the Minister on this other question that this has remained a little behind. I hope the Minister really wants to say that they will be there by February next year at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u92	I'm not going to guarantee that, because this is an independent investigation. It has been indicated that it should be there at the beginning of spring 2020. I will do everything in my power, so you may expect me to make the most of that research, but we must never put pressure on independent researchers at any time if they are in short supply of time. I'm gonna do everything I can. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mr Rombouts' questions about the speed of mobility within the organisations. The General Administrative Service is currently investigating the rate of circulation of officials in the JenV organisations. For the time being, I do not have the impression that the JenV organisations are systematically too high. Recently there have been a number of changes, but they have various backgrounds that can be explained for themselves. A number of these changes took place within the Ministry itself, thus preserving the knowledge of the department. In order to promote the balance of mobility within the top of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the College of Attorneys-General indicated that it would apply that 3-5-7 model within the top of the Public Prosecutor's Office, as a result of the Fowls report. In doing so, both the Attorney General and the Chief Prosecutor are encouraged to work along that line. I would just like to say briefly that this is, in the end, a wide-ranging debate, which has rightly been said that, of course, there should also be a return to home affairs and Kingdom relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u93	We are talking today about the rule of law. So we are talking to a great extent about the institutions of the rule of law. But on balance, of course, all the important organisations in our state have an interest in serving, in helping to maintain that rule of law. My question to the Minister in the first term was: would you say that you, the cabinet, do not think it is desirable that the people of, as you call them, the JenV services, i.e. the police, the judiciary, the judiciary, but also the other institutions around them, so the NCTV and the AIVD have the speed of circulation that is the norm for the ABD? But can I just hear you say that this is going to be introduced to the state's attorney's office? As far as I am concerned, that would be exactly the wrong move. I truly believe that our rule of law is served by people who commit longer, who have experience and bring in knowledge. Despite the speed of the political officials, who are, of course, relatively high, this is extremely necessary to ensure stability and continuity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u94	Well, then we will indeed come to a very important discussion, which is about the ABD model that has been rolled out by the Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations. The Minister is also in discussion with the House of Representatives. I don't feel free to go into that discussion right now. There have been some changes at the top of the department due to the fact that people have retired or moved to another position, even outside the department. I think that's a risk factor you should always take into account. For example, I am very happy with the fact that the new Director-General for Justice and Law Enforcement, Mrs Van Dijk, is someone who has a really great experience in the field of justice, with a number of high positions, and who was willing to take up that position when her predecessor decided to take a step towards the judiciary. So I fully agree with Mr Rombouts that you should always consider how to ensure knowledge and experience as much as possible. And I also think that it is indeed preferable that people should at least continue for a considerable number of years in this kind of key functions. I'll endorse that immediately. The fact that there have recently been a number of changes, which, by the way, arose from the fact that people were motivated to choose something else, is a reality that I have to live with. In any case, I am very happy with the follow-up solutions that have been found.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u95	I understand that the Minister does not want to enter the portfolio of the Minister for the Interior. I have actually meant this as a bouncer in a broader sense, wider than the constitutional institutions. I am pleased to hear that the Minister shares the view that it is good to give people at these institutions, who are also formally not covered by the ABD, for a longer period of time and that they are people who, as with the ABD, do not move from one ministry to another because there is a certain period of time. No, there must be people who can stand for something, who know justice, who know police. I understand the Minister shares that view.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u96	Well, I think you should consider how best to switch with a candidate in the circumstances. Sometimes someone is very suitable for a particular position in certain circumstances, even though you can assume that for example they will not be able to complete the entire seven years or even the five years. What is most important to me, taking into account the important point that we are looking to retain as much knowledge and experience as possible, is that the right person can be put in the right place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u97	Mr. Rombouts, for the third and last time. A quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u98	One more time, Mr. Chairman. Now there's really been a misunderstanding. You are now introducing those five and seven-year deadlines yourself, which do not apply to the national police and the public prosecutors. They're not covered by the ABD. So you don't have to. My question, which I put literally this morning, is whether these deadlines do not indeed apply to these people and whether these deadlines are not introduced unconsciously because they go so wrong for the rest of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u99	I cannot support that conclusion that things are going wrong for the rest of the government. That is a debate with the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, so I am not going to let that happen. I have indicated that, in response to the report by Mr Fokkens, the Public Prosecutor's Office has stated its intention to apply that 3-5-7 model. Mr Rombouts is right that this model does not apply to the police, but I think that knowledge and experience are very important for all key functions in the field of Justice and Security as you get higher. That is really very important. You know the field, you know what the problems are, and you've proven, of course, that you're competent. Let's get that up front. It may be that one time you have to say that someone may only be available for a few years, but is really the one you want, and that the other time you have someone who can commit for a much longer period. In the sum total, that can be the most ideal. I hope that Mr Rombouts and I can agree that it should not always be a fixed model for those top-level judicial jobs. The most important thing is: the right person in the right place. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to the digital disruption. I have already said something about the WRR report in relation to Mrs Bikker's question, but in general I would like to say that I underlined the main findings of the report last year after the publication of the report. Indeed, the warning of the WRR is central: it is not the question whether such a digital disruption incident is going to happen, no, it is going to happen. And we all have to take that into account in our whole mentality. In short, that's the nucleus of the report. Again, we will come later this month with a comprehensive policy response to that report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u100	Mrs. Bikker has a question about that note.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u101	I look forward to that. The Minister has heard the urgency of this for my group and we hope that not only the report but also the warnings given by the NCTV and the NCCS on cybersecurity will be taken up vigorously. I'm assuming the minister who's involved. I do not know whether that policy response will automatically go to the First Chamber, but I assume that this has been agreed between us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u102	I have suggested that I am okay with having the First Chamber send that policy response. For the sake of awareness alone, that seems to me to be a very sensible thing. So we have a promise of this. Cyber security, yes. I was looked at by someone other than you, but I suspect it will be all right if I answer you. I still have a few separate questions before I go into some of the themes. The anti-Semitic flag. There are several measures, as I say to Group Otten and the SGP, to tackle anti-Semitism. We must always see whether the effects of this can be made clear. As you know, extra money has been made available for the motion in the House of Representatives. I have argued in favour of a flag in the fight against anti-Semitism, and I have said that the municipalities must ultimately have that right. I'll bring it to the attention of the VNG.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u103	I'm very happy with that last sentence. If you wish to bring that to the attention of the House, I consider it an undertaking. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u104	Mr Van Wely from FvD asked about the security of Mr Wilders. I can't make communications about the security of individuals. I can only say that the purpose of Mr Wilders' security is to ensure that he can perform his public task safely and as well as possible. I was not given anything else to say about that. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the police capacity, the search, the neighborhood cop and that matter of BZK. There's an employability tip from the police. It was known years ago that it was coming, since 2011. That was because there was a prediction about the number of people who would retire at some point. After 2011, additional aspirants were poured in to mitigate the pressure that resulted from this, resulting in overcrowding. This higher pension-related outflow remained out at that time and therefore suddenly overcrowded again. That was completed in the early years of the national police. When this cabinet arrived, I had to observe that there was no such overcrowding anymore. Meanwhile, this higher pension-related outflow had started. One could speak in jargon of the "perfect storm." This was an inevitable approach to employability. A number of measures have been taken. Within two months of joining the cabinet, an amount of 100 million has been added to the budget, allowing the police to recruit and train more people as early as 2018. An additional 91 million has been made available on an occasional basis to increase employability through side-inflow and throughflow during this period of stress due to pension outflow, but also by encouraging longer working hours. Furthermore, at least 10 million extra has been released from the funds to reduce the pressure on basic police care, after I decided last autumn that these additional protection measures had to be taken under the rule of law. Mr. Chairman. Together with the police and local authority, the cabinet is doing everything it can to get through this phase. I'm telling you right away, that's not a good thing. I've been talking about the letters from mayors reaching me. It's hard work, but we're gonna have to work on that in the next few days. Citizens can continue to rely on the police now and in the future, so that the Netherlands can and will remain one of the safest countries in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u105	I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem, who observed the honours of Mrs Bezaan, who had to leave the building. Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleague asked in the first term when the influx of extra police officers, those 1,100 people, will be added. It's been reported earlier. I also notice in municipal practice that there is a huge shortage of police officers, of policemen on the streets, also because of the great commitment to events, which means that until the coming year the leave of police officers has been withdrawn. The cops don't know what they're up to anymore. The Minister is talking about a temporary dip, but how long will that temporary dip last and when will something finally be done about the major discrepancy with the necessary police deployment? Where's the extra influx of policemen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u107	I have already considered this in more detail before the break and explained that those 1,111 fte will only actually be realized, so as a plus, from 2022 onwards. As I said, that has to do with the fact that we now have this huge employability dip. The funding, that structural money is there, but then you have to have the people. You'll have to recruit them and train them. So that's what happens these years. In the meantime, despite the increasing number of people recruited, the number on balance is still not rising to 1.111 due to the issues I have just indicated. Fortunately, these are "conjunctural" issues, but yes. We are talking about 17,000 people when we talk about the retirement outflow, I also say a little in response to what Mrs De Blécourt asked. Out of a total of 63,000 policemen, that's a huge number.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u108	If there really is such a great need for those police officers, which is apparently there, then you would expect the recruitment campaigns to blow our minds, that a decent wage is paid, that people are really super interested in being on the force and that there are really good working conditions. But apparently that hasn't happened yet. Are you sure you can't get more yarn on your hands? Doesn't the Minister feel a much greater priority to really use this as a great necessity?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u109	There were more people influx last year than were budgeted on the basis of the campaigns aimed at doing so. I mean more than was actually expected on the basis of labour market forecasts and other matters. The police are either the most popular or the second most popular government employer. That's what the recruitment is all about. A task force has been set up to see what further measures can be taken to increase this number. The task force also looks at the possibilities of setting up training at the police academy in such a way as to enable the officers to get into practice earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u110	Then Mrs. Veldhoen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u111	The Minister states that there are substantial investments in the police: 100 million more, another 10 million more. In my contribution in the first period, I also referred to the judicial chain, where there are major gaps and where there is a great deal of pressure. If there are additional investments in the police, I think they should also be made by the prosecution and then by the courts. Otherwise, it's gonna get stuck in the chain later. My question to the Minister is what he is going to do there and what investment can be expected in that area.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u112	My colleague, Mr Dekker, will discuss with you later on the judiciary, in particular the additional investment that has been made in recent years. The Public Prosecutor's Office has also been included in the additional investments required in the criminal justice chain. Similarly, the Public Prosecutor's Office will also be included in my plan for additional structural resources to tackle undermining crime. Because if you're going to put money into such a multidisciplinary intervention team, then it's true that money needs to be made very clear in the criminal justice chain. On top of that, last year an additional amount was released to the state attorney's office. I should check the exact amount, but I think it was 11 million. I'm gonna have to check that out. Mrs Veldhoen is quite right: you will of course have to deal with the effects that occur later in the chain. Mr. Chairman. I also had Mrs De Blécourt's question about university detective training. Professor Van Koppen made an initial design for the police science master's programme in December 2017. The police education provided by the Police College must be linked. At the moment, the Vrije Universiteit, the Police Academy and the police are working on the development of that master's programme. I can't quite place the 15,000 detectives I mentioned. But anyway, the police will recruit 17,000 new employees in the coming years, including, of course, a large number of detectives. This also concerns detectives in specialist domains, such as the digital domain in particular. Mr Otten asked about the latest absenteeism rates. I introduced a plan of approach to absenteeism in April 2018. In the meantime, absenteeism has fallen from 6.5% to 6.2%. I can assure you that, on the big picture, that is indeed quite an achievement on the part of the police. The biggest gain is in personal attention to the employee. The corps leadership continues to highlight the failure approach through all kinds of mandatory training for the executives. There is also a campaign on that point. Furthermore, at the end of this month, I will come forward with a plan of action on the PTSS. This has been drawn up in close consultation with the trade unions, the works council and, of course, the corps leadership. This is also a problem which has been given special attention in the past year. Then the neighborhood cop. A number of you have rightly drawn attention to this. It is clear that the importance and role of the district agent is extremely important, including in the context of tackling undermining crime and, in particular, the fight against youth crime. This is also one of the most important tasks in the so-called development agenda area-related police. At present, the police are exploring the so-called 80% standard in practice. This makes the development of the time that agents can spend on the work in the district more transparent. I will inform the House of Representatives, as well as your Chamber, of the results of the reconnaissance as soon as it arrives. Mr. Chairman. Then it's about data-driven control and tracking. I share the idea that detection should develop with technology and society. That's what they're really getting at. New methods and powers of detection in the field of digital technology are now being developed at various police sites. On the one hand, you have to think of undermining crime and cyber, but on the other hand, you also have to think of making crime scenes transparent with virtual reality, or virtual reality if you want a downlandism for that. You can see that huge leaps are being made in the field of digital development. Privacy issues always play a role in this, especially when it comes to the exchange of information and all kinds of safeguards surrounding it. When it comes to detection and data exchange, we have come a long way first through the Dutch Data Protection Authority and then through the Council of State with the Data Processing Bill by collaborations. This will soon be submitted to the House of Representatives. This will then give various collaborations of police, justice and tax authorities, among others, better opportunities to move forward with data analysis in the fight against organised and undermining crime. We have been very careful to do so, and we have been given the necessary safeguards for the protection of privacy. Of course, that remains the dilemma, but I do not have to explain it to you. Privacy must not become a shield for criminals. On the other hand, ordinary citizens must still be able to count on the right level of personal protection. Mr. Chairman. Mr Janssen had a question about the digitisation of the police. For this purpose, the Computer Crime III Act entered into force on 1 March 2019. It was agreed that an evaluation should be carried out very soon after the entry into force, namely after two years. It is too early to make conclusive statements on this at this stage. We just have to wait for that evaluation. There are a number of successes that have been achieved with the new jurisdiction in that law, such as taking the mixer offline for cryptocurrency called Bestmixer.io. That is one of many examples. There are all kinds of capacity expansions in the field of cybercime, resulting from resources deployed in the coalition agreement and then again, in August 2018. By the way, this is aimed at strengthening the police force of a total of 145 fte. Yeah, the police have been using algorithms for a long time. In recent years they have been used in a more complex way, but there are only a limited number of applications of artificial intelligence, in the sense that systems have really intelligent behavior. Of course, personal protection rights are handled very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u113	I have a question. Not at the point of the algorithms, but at the point that was before that. The Minister mentioned an extension of 145 fte. That's, I assume, for the BOLO. My questions focused in particular on a somewhat lower or different place in the organisation, because many victims of computer crime or data-related crime do not know where they can go to the police at the moment and the police do not know what to do with them. So my question was about that side, not the one about tracking. How can victims end up in a good way? Is there more attention to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u114	Then I'm gonna get off my own property a little bit. That question is answered by Mr Dekker, since it concerns victims. Mr Recourt has raised an important point, namely how we look at bringing the police into Home Affairs and Kingdom relations. I don't think that's a good idea. We have seen that in recent years we have been committed to further developing what was initially Security and Justice until now Justice and Security. This has led to many advantages. Not only in terms of efficiency, but also in terms of achieving the security goal as well as the justice system, because these two organisations have links with each other. In addition, it is still the case that the Public Prosecutor's Office is magistrate and remote and that the sitting magistrate is completely independent. The police have their own role in the security domain, as are other services such as fire brigades. There is no need to cut those two if you are asked for checks-and-balances. To this end, the organisational lines themselves, for example the national police, are far too clearly focused on transparency in the area of responsibility. It's not necessary. Nor is it necessary to make a cut between services that can benefit much more from each other's services in this way, precisely in that one chain. I am setting an example of digitalisation alone. It is still a huge challenge to get that all in one track. It would really be more than three steps backwards if you cut that loose again and settled in different departments. But once again, the most important thing for Parliament is that it is clear and transparent to see where the responsibilities lie, how they are handled and that the rulers are ultimately fully accountable to the Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u115	The most important argument I don't understand very well. That transparency and accountability to the Chamber are also there when you cut it over two ministries. The great advantage is therefore that within the cabinet two ministers are interfering in the matter. In the context of these checks-and-balances, therefore, there is not only the great, strong Minister of Justice and Security, but also the Minister of the Interior, who can discuss the underlying interests much better, also within the discussion in the Cabinet. What are you putting your cops in? Is that in the tracking chain, as the Minister of Justice would like? Or do you do that more in the neighborhoods, to name a few? That would be more of an interest to the Home Office. You will say: yes, I think that is both important. But it's about controlling each other and keeping each other sharp, instead of everything in one hand and efficiency first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u116	Let us begin with the fact that the decision to place it in one ministry once, a number of Cabinets ago, was taken because they said that this was of great importance for the proper functioning of the criminal justice chain, for everything that is going on around it and for the possibility of being properly accountable. By the way, it's not just about the police. It's also about the NCTV, just to mention something. It is also about the fire department and it is about a number of other services. That decision was made in a minute. I have explained why I think that is a defendable and a very good decision, and I will save you a repeat even if I just look at the problems surrounding, for example, the standardisation of digital lines. And that is really important if you want the criminal justice chain to work properly. There are other interests, but I'm not going into that right now. That's one argument. This is how I understood it, and this is repeated again, because it would be preferable for two ministers to be involved in the checks-and-balances, the accountability and the discussion within a cabinet. I honestly do not see that when it comes to accountability. For that responsibility must be given, whether by one, two, four or eight ministers. I am thinking here of the double formula which Mr Lubach recently used in his television programme. Moreover, we have chosen in this cabinet to have three rulers in this ministry. I think that is a good thing in itself. In the future, you might want to see if you're gonna have to put this in one minister's office, and that's what you're gonna have to do with the other. That seems to me to be a good thing in itself. But I remain in favour of it all being Justice and Security, because of these huge benefits. So you don't have to answer for it. Then you come to the question of whether it is useful for the checks-and-balances around decision-making. What I find to be a big profit is that there is a Broad Board of Directors at Justice and Security, with the chairman of the college and the chief of police joining. I see that these players are always sitting together at the table in other gremia, for example in the National Council of Security and Police, but also in the Security Council. So these players also consult directly with each other. If they have a discussion about the stakes, it doesn't matter if one returns to one minister or another to another minister. It is a question of deciding on a police commitment, because that was the example of Mr Recourt, whose minister can say: I take political responsibility for that. Because that's how the system works. So I think it's much more efficient, but it actually makes the services work better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u117	My last attempt, Mr. Chairman, even though I'm not going to convince the Minister. But I would like to make the arguments a little clearer. Where the police are an executive organisation, the prosecution and even more so the judges are the controller of it. The D.A. has a bit of ambigue status, but also prosecutors are magistrates and check to see if someone is allowed to go to remand and so on. Again, I know where the argument of efficiency comes from and I get it. He had to be better than it was before the police came to the Justice Department. But...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u118	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u119	The main argument is: in what way do you keep the control tasks and the executive tasks properly separate? If you say "we are going to organise this even better within our ministry in the future," we are yet another step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u120	What I love about the way things are now, is this. I would also like to stress that I am not the architect of this. I must grant copyright to others for this. The police have their own organizational structure, and so does the D.A.'s office. Indeed, situations are conceivable that the public attorney believes that there should be a left-wing approach in terms of priorities, and that the police think that a priority should be taken forward. Then eventually there is one minister who says "we're going left" or "we're going straight" or "we're going to do something in between." He has to answer to two Chambers. So it is not lost in a trench battle between two ministers, one for one and the other for another in different departments. I have to be careful not to become some kind of witness to the whole thing, because that goes a little too far. But I am convinced that it is not only efficiency, it is also going to work better. And on the question of accountability, there's just more clarity. So yes, you will notice, Mr President, that the longer I hear myself talking, I will become a greater supporter of that. Mr. Chairman. How do I look at the effectiveness of the Article 7 procedure? Mr Dekker will discuss this in greater detail later, particularly when it comes to how it works on the judiciary. I'd like to say a few things about that. I believe that everyone knows that we are in a preventive phase with regard to Poland and Hungary, in which we are engaged in dialogue with both Member States on the existing concerns in the area of the rule of law. This will also be the case in the forthcoming General Affairs Council on 24 March. Unfortunately, this dialogue has so far yielded little, but it is important to continue to have that conversation. The European Court made some very important judgments last year and the year before. I can refer you to that. These are statements which, moreover, have an impact on our JHA Council. In particular, the ruling on the Irish court's preliminary questions on the European Arrest Warrant was, of course, a very clear one, which also leads to further discussion in the JHA Council with the Polish and Hungarian colleagues. In this context, I have advocated that the issue of rule of law should be permanently on the agenda in the JHA Council and that subjects should be dealt with regularly along that bar. The Commission has accepted this with some adjustments. This means that, without interfering with the RAZ in the JHA Council, we can engage in regular discussions with the ministers who are at least in this area. This is not easy with regard to the Polish colleague, who is never there. Mr. Chairman. I have visited the countries myself. I went to Hungary and had a rather intense conversation with my colleague. That was when the tram houses were filled with the broken posters of Juncker and Soros. We talked about this a deux, but then also a groupe with the civil servants, firmly. I said that this was absolutely contrary to the principles that we uphold in our European society. That wasn't an easy conversation. You shouldn't do that every month either, but that's part of it: appealing to each other on that state of law. Mr. Chairman. Let us move quickly on to the international treaties. Mrs Veldhoen asked for that. The Netherlands has signed a large number of international treaties that have brought great progress to our country, including progress in the rule of law. That's what the Netherlands stands for. Every international treaty you have to judge on its merits. This has recently been done as a result of the CETA Convention. It is very healthy for this to be discussed in Parliament. Mr. Chairman. The principle of opportunity. We have a long standing tradition with the principle of opportunity. Our institutions are built on that, too. That means the district attorney's choice is his. I do not see Mr Otten very soon, but I would like to explain that this is not the same as the Dominus Litis principle. In the case-law, that is the principle that the lawyer is the one who decides at some point what happens in a procedure, because a step before the judge always has to be held accountable. The principle of opportunity is something else. It is part of our rule of law that the Public Prosecutor's Office, with the resources available, decides on certain choices. That system works well. Our Public Prosecutor's Office is internationally highly regarded as being very high-ranking. I said that at first because we really have consistency in the case law. That is the credit of the judiciary, but that is also due to the way in which our Public Prosecutor deals with it in cases. After everything that has been said about the D.A.'s office, I would like to congratulate you once again. It's not my credit at all. They are professionals who really deliver high quality on the basis of the opportunity principle. Mr. Chairman. I have two more points. First of all, Mr Rombouts' question about the delta plan. I would like to say to him once again that there are no misunderstandings about this, because otherwise it will not work in the future that if I manage to get the structural resources I need to set up this robust approach, that the delta plan will be anti-undermining, the DAO. We still have to make sure that in a foreign language that doesn't mean anything weird. I want to say that out loud, because I understand his concern. If you don't name it very firmly and put it well down, also clearly recognizable to everyone, then it can disappear in the fog of the ghostland, as former Prime Minister Van Agt once called it. I just want to explain why the name "delta" fell away in the department. One of the first organized undermining crime gangs was the gang with the nickname Delta. Operation Delta led to the IRT study at the end of 1992. I see in Mr Rombouts' eyes that he forgives me. I would like to agree that when these structural funds are put in place, Mr Rombouts and I will cut a large chocolate delta in this building for those Members of Parliament who like to enjoy it. Then I'll come to the very last. Mr Nicolaï asked whether there should be a law recognising slavery as a crime against humanity. Can that be explored and can the Chamber be informed of this within two months? Dealing with the history of slavery is really something that belongs to my colleague in the Interior and Kingdom Relations. At the moment, the minister of that department is preparing a dialogue on the history of slavery and its impact in today's society. This dialogue is aimed at a broader recognition and embedding of this past. We must now bring the results of this dialogue first and not draw any conclusions about any legislation as it exists in France. Mr. Chairman. I have come to the end of my first term and I offer thanks for your patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u121	I still have the question whether algorithms belong to you or to your colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u122	With my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u123	Thank you, Minister of Justice and Security. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Legal Protection for the continuation of the first-term reply. Before doing so, however, I shall give the floor to Mr Van Dijk, who, I believe, still has an interruption to the Minister for Justice and Security. Is that right, Mr. Van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u124	That's right. In connection with the book presentation you attended, I made a few comments on the moral conditions for our rule of law. Are you gonna pick that up? Or should I look at the colleague for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u125	In view of the fact that I believe I had a debate I was unable to attend. That doesn't mean I'm completely devoid of morale. But I find it difficult to react to that as l'improviste. I admit that if the SGP still organises a public opportunity to talk about this, I will go into that matter in the hope that until then I will be given the credit I have at my disposal a certain morale.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u126	I'd like to give you that credit. Somewhere, I did not intertwine those questions that I raised with Bolkestein, the WRR for nothing; I think even the Remkes State Commission made a comment on them. I think it would fit here. Anyway, I'll bring your suggestion to the attention of the SGP teachings. Maybe we'll invite you to a debate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u127	I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Legal Protection for the continuation of the first-term reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u128	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the opportunity to speak with your Chamber about the state of the rule of law. Congratulations to the members who made their maiden speech. The importance of our rule of law cannot be underestimated. It is based on important principles such as the separation of powers, independence of justice, sound laws and rules to which the government is also bound. Perhaps even more important than those principles are the results that the rule of law ultimately offers to normal people, namely unprecedented freedom as we enjoy in the Netherlands, security, protection; a just society in which citizens, businesses can go to court to get them right and in which minorities are protected. The rule of law determines our well-being and also determines our prosperity, stability and legal certainty. It makes the Netherlands a pleasant country to live in, to work in and to invest in. It brings us, in other words, freedom and economic growth. We need to protect that rule of law, including from forces that want to undermine it. Mr Van Wely briefly mentioned this in his speech on radical anti-democratic organisations. Soon I will be talking to the House of Representatives about tightening up Article 2:20 of the Civil Code, which makes it possible for a rule of law to say: our freedoms are actually being abused here to subject that freedom. I believe that, as a rule of law, we should do more to arm ourselves against this. I also look forward to the next debate with your First Chamber. This broad debate today offers scope for discussing various policy and legislative paths that affect the rule of law in coherence. Our rule of law also deserves such a debate, especially when it is in the face of the storm of public debate as last year. In my response to the input of the Chamber, I will distinguish between four themes. I would like to begin by talking about the relationship between the judiciary and the legislature. This is an issue that calls for a debate and calls for an exchange of views with this Chamber. It is about the roles of the state powers to be distinguished, in particular whether the judge does not sit too much on the legislator's seat. It's the foundations that we're supposed to be talking about. Then I come to a number of issues which, as far as I am concerned, affect access to justice. Your foundations may be in order, but the question of whether people can actually benefit from them depends on that access. That requires a number of things. The second issue I would like to address is access to justice, access to justice. This is different from access to justice, but it is essential. It's about a strong organization. I would then like to refer to the questions asked about legal aid, the help people need to make use of their rights in the end. I would like to conclude with a topic that deals with the renewal of justice and alternative forms of dispute resolution, which can also take place outside the courts. Mr. Chairman. I want to start with the relationship between the state powers. In this house, Mr Van Kemenade was mentioned this afternoon. His work and life were commemorated. As Secretary of State for Education, I have noticed how much Mr Van Kemenade, as Minister, has left his mark on very important innovations in education. But one of the themes at the heart of this debate today is also indistinguishably linked to Mr Van Kemenade. In 1997 he, as commissioner of the Queen of North Holland, together with some other directors, presented an unsolicited report under the telling title of Board in question. Van Kemenade drew attention to the developments which forced the judge to step into the domain of politics. What we've been talking about over the past week isn't so new at all. It's a discussion of all times, you might say. But he's definitely up-to-date, too. Nitrogen, Urgenda, recent judgments about SyRI, the possible return of IS children: the government has been whistled back by the judge several times in recent years. It strengthened the relationship between the legislator and the judge. Following all these rulings, the role of the judge in the democratic rule of law is under discussion. Let me put it straight: there's nothing wrong with that. In fact, I believe that discussion about the situation in the triad is part of a vital democratic rule of law. That's not new either. That is why it is right that we should consider it today, here in the heart of our democracy. A number of MPs already referred to the piece I wrote for the NRC. I also said a few things about it in the conversation I had with the AD. Moreover, I have done so before, in the direction of Mrs Baay and Mr Backer, when we spoke on the other side, in the other Chamber, about the experiments on justice. I have already said at that time that I repeat once again very clearly that judges are simply doing their job. We have asked judges to apply, colour, interpret our laws that we have made. It also includes the fact that if they've made a statement, even if you're not happy with it, you have to stick to it. I'm not gonna hide the fact that when you get whistled back, you sometimes think, "Damn." But every time you get whistled back by a judge there's a kind of fire in me that says: I prefer to live in a country where the government is sometimes whistled back than in a country where the judge is an extension of the legislative or executive power. Mr. Chairman. What I do see is that the debate sometimes degenerates into a fight between two camps and that sometimes it gets a bit cramped. One camp accuses judges of a silent seizure of power, of activism, thereby affecting the integrity of judges. The other camp refers directly to Polish situations and actually smothers the whole debate. Both camps do not, in my view, serve the rule of law. The rule of law benefits from dialogue, from debate, but in a respectful manner, with respect for the independence of our judges. The independence of justice is a pillar of our rule of law which can only function properly if there is confidence, if the authority of the courts is accepted. We execute judgments from judges, even if they're sanding. But that is certainly not all that has been said, as Mr Backer's extensive remarks this morning have shown. I myself have mentioned three themes that I think are important in the debate. These issues were also discussed this afternoon. Firstly, I mention the quality and content of our laws and rules. Not all laws provide society with the right grip. Laws often even contain consciously and sometimes also unconsciously open standards. Think of reasonableness and fairness, of social care. Judges fill in these open standards. They also make new rights. If laws prove to be too inflexible or too instrumental, the legislation is inadequate. We can do so, I say 'we': both government and I also confirm this in the direction of Mrs Baay and Mr Backer. Firstly, we can do that by making better laws. You're keeping us sharp. All the tests and opinions we ask for are there for a reason. They're gonna ask for a pass-through, for support, for debate. If the judge gives an explanation that the legislator didn't mean that is at the back and there the circle is again around... we can also go back again. Then we can change the laws. Exactly the interaction is what the debate should be about. In this context, I do like to point out an initiative of the Supreme Court, which always gives specific attention to the legislator in the annual report. It points to shortcomings, errors, uncertainties encountered by the Council in its work, when it comes to legal proceedings. The Supreme Court thus says to the legislator: look at that again; take advantage of that. That's the spirit. I heard Lord Otten speak of an oath to make good laws. Let me just say that we don't need that oath. This is just what we have to do. I do not entirely follow the example of the Environment Act. I have the impression that after years of very hard work there has been a good result. That's the first theme. Secondly, I would like to say something about the organisation of our legal system. Then it's about the proportions in the triad. There too, choices can be made. Laws cannot be judged by the Constitution in the Netherlands, but by treaties. As you know, the State Committee on Parliamentary System has put forward proposals for constitutional review by a constitutional court. The Cabinet shall consider the desirability thereof. In this context, I would also mention Articles 93 and 94 of the Constitution, which states that international treaties are directly binding in the Netherlands and go beyond national laws. That's a choice. There are countries, also close to Europe, where this has been arranged differently. There must always be room to discuss with each other the advantages and disadvantages of these different systems. I sometimes had the impression that there was a taboo on that and we should not do that. It is perfectly understandable that some groups, some political parties, say: we absolutely do not want to do that. That's different. But we cannot declare these things taboo. This is something that needs to be debated. Please understand that either I or the cabinet are not taking a position on this at the moment. I don't intend to change this. I am referring to the fact that the debate on the establishment of our legal system and, therefore, the checks and balances between the state powers must be conducted without prejudice and without taboos. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the third theme I would like to address. How do international agreements work in our national system? That's pretty complicated. You can't just get over it. I am referring specifically to Mrs Veldhoen and Mr Janssen. In most cases, you should not want that at all, especially in the case of human rights conventions, such as the ECHR. That's how I wrote it in the piece I published in NRC. Mr Grapperhaus has just pointed out that many of these international conventions have also brought us much. But we also need to be real. It's possible to say you want to change an international treaty. In the end, you can decide to step out. With the Urgenda case, there has been another question: what exactly are we signing up to internationally? Shouldn't we be a little less naive in that, as I said in the interview? In reply to Mr Backer's questions, I say that my objective is that we should take these treaties more seriously. Any international treaty can and must always be properly judged on its merits. That is quite different from what I think, in reply to Mr Janssen, that we should stop making international commitments. We need to be aware of it. That's what the Supreme Court said. I'm always very self-reflectioned. We had another plea when we entered that case, but there has been a right of speech and then you look in that mirror again. The judiciary holds a mirror for you. Then you will see this whole pride, not only the ECHR, but also the international agreements we have made on this issue. Now that the judge says that if you've made such agreements internationally, you can't just walk away from them easily, that's something we need to realize and take with us to the future. Mr Janssen also asked me for an example. If you're careful or if you're critical, what should you be looking at? In the past, we have denounced a bilateral agreement with Morocco on benefits. For example, there have been discussions in this House on the ratification of three protocols, on the so-called individual right of complaint in certain human rights committees. I know the desire to do this in the end, but Mr Blok has said a number of times that we must first look at what that means. We are continuing to sign and ratify because we need to know better what the financial and legal consequences are. I think that is a very good thing. So my point is that once we commit ourselves internationally to certain agreements, we should not be surprised that we are being held to them by national rights. My point is that Urgenda was not just about a more or less extensive explanation of the ECHR. Something very important came up. The judge held us to climate goals that we had set ourselves on an international basis. This is perhaps also an important difference with many other judgments and judgments that have been made. The question is what this means for many other things. That is a very serious question. The cabinet is looking at this, but it would be premature to anticipate it now. The Urgenda ruling is another than the nitrogen ruling of the Administrative Law Department of the Council of State or, for example, the recent judgment of the judge in the SyRI case. Mr President, I will conclude this section. A discussion on the core values of our democratic rule of law is good, but on content, business and respectful. Mrs Baay asked whether this discussion in itself does not undermine the confidence of the judge. I'm often jealous of trusting our judges myself. All the studies show that this is incredibly high: 70%. Many politicians are jealous of it. But I think that if we did not have the debate, it would undermine confidence. It is just as damaging when there are questions about the relationship between legislator and judge, but which cannot be channeled in such a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u129	However, I would like to hear from the Minister what would not be worthy and respectful, if we were simply discussing the content and, for example, the explanation given in such a ruling.... take the Urgenda judgment.................................................................................................................................................................................................... What is disrespectful about it when we have a debate about it? I mean, we have to be able to make certain trade-offs, don't we? Perhaps we should then consider stepping out of the ECHR, adapting certain other laws or abandoning climate objectives if we so wish. That's a trade-off we should be able to make here, isn't it? That's not disrespectful performance, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u130	We certainly need to be able to have a debate on judicial decisions and on the ECHR. What I mean by "respectless" are statements by the leader of your party about fake judges who need to be kicked out of the country and that if you don't like a verdict, that's because of all those D66 judges who are doing activism. I find that disrespectful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u131	But those are facts, too. For years, investigations have been carried out into the political background, the political preference of the judiciary, which is predominantly PvdA/D66/GroenLinks. As early as 2003 I read in Vrij Nederland researches on the preferences of the judiciary. For many years it has been largely of one political colour, so it will also focus on the political explanation given to international treaties and to legislation. I think it's just business-content to be able to include that aspect. What's rude about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u132	A lot. Let me distance myself from the picture that is being sketched here. Judges in the Netherlands do their work impartially, independently and put aside all their personal and political preferences. That's what we're asking them to do. We ask them to apply the law. You can, of course, have to deal with a statement that you don't like. A recognizable feeling, I'd say. But to describe that as activism? I often get the idea that for the PVV "activist" is a kind of rhetorical stamp that is used for a statement that you don't like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u133	Mr. Van Hattem, the third and last.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u134	I hear the minister say activism is a stamp. No, activism is a mode of action in which a judge consciously chooses to go beyond what politics has intended. That's a form of activism. This is a step further than the democratically elected parliament has wished. That's what an unelected judge does. This is an activity, an action, a legal action, legal activism in order to turn our legal provisions and our legal interpretation into its own hands. That's a form of activism and that's just undesirable. We need to be able to discuss in a very business way that the judiciary, and hence the rule of law, has gone into an imbalance. That sounds like a very good business discussion. Otherwise we will not have to debate the state of the rule of law here, because that is precisely a point of criticism of that state of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u135	This is exactly an example of the unrespectful way in which the debate is sometimes conducted, namely by focusing your arrows on judges and undermining the way they do their work, because all this would not be in line with all the principles we have here. I do not know of any judges who give their personal or political preference over the laws and rules in this country or over the democratic processes that we all have. If that is meant by 'activism'.... I hear that in this speech....................................................................................................................................................................................................... I have a strong impression that if you're not happy with something, if you don't agree with a pronunciation, then that stamp will be printed on it. We shouldn't start with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u136	I think Mrs Bikker was first, but we can also do it alphabetically. Mrs Baay, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u137	I was actually concerned that if you deliberately throw away a group of judges in general and deliberately damage them, that could evoke an image to the general public that you might start to doubt integrity. I have just heard Mr Van Hattem speak. I can imagine that at that time the general public might have the impression that there is a basis for truth in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u138	That is exactly why we are calling it the'social centre', which is otherwise in it, and have a duty to continue to engage in the discussion and to defend ourselves against knocks below the belt, as I call it. Because if you keep saying that all the time and there's no reply, people are going to take it with them at some point. You will only face a judge yourself once, hearing all those debates and only hearing this one-sided sound, and being wronged. Then you're gonna take over that frame. That's exactly why we all have to stand up to it so incredibly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u139	That is exactly my point. I am absolutely in favour of debates, about everything, but in an orderly way and also with due respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u140	Totally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u141	Appreciate the Minister for his clear tone and also the clear stance he has on the case law and his defence, even where all kinds of qualifications are thrown out that do not build but undermine the rule of law, in order to link to the previous section. However, the Minister has said a number of things that will lead to reflection. They look at judicial review of international conventions. At the same time, the Cabinet is examining how the recommendations of the Remkes Committee will be followed up, including on constitutional review. Will the Minister promise that the notions he makes here will be dealt with specifically in the government's assessment of constitutional review and that we will see them again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u142	Certainly, without prejudging that outcome, because this is a complicated debate and I also know that parties are different in this. For me personally, too, it's quibbling and weighing: what do you do wisely? I think that we will have this debate in detail here as soon as there is a proposal from the cabinet, because I can see that this can count on great interest here. I will take these points into account and ensure that they are taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u143	I would like to ask the Minister what is actually the consequence of the Urgenda ruling, other than the immediate consequence. I heard him say: we actually need to look a little more critically at what we, as the Netherlands, are committed to. Is the minister here on behalf of the cabinet? What does this actually mean? Does this mean that the Netherlands will be less likely to participate in international agreements and treaties? Will the Secretary of State act differently? What is the actual consequence of the remark?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u144	That we always have to look critically at what we commit ourselves to and that we also have to realize that it is not just for the picture, but that it also has consequences. You know our defences. You can all read the pleas. In several cases we have argued: these are international conventions; it is not the role of the judge, etc. The judge makes a ruling in which he says that all can be done, and yet I think so. Then you live in a new, also legal reality, which forces you to look at it in a more critical way. By the way, it is not just from today to tomorrow, or from today to yesterday. We have been working in the Cabinet a little longer to ensure that we can get to the front of the many international treaties. These are a few big ones, but each ministry is working on multilateral, bilateral and international agreements, sometimes at EU level. We do so so so that we don't have to face agreements at the back where you can actually only say yes or no to or from which you can delete a sentence, but to determine your bet much more on the front. If you ask what we, as a cabinet, will actually do differently, then this is one of the things that we picked up a year and a half ago, to follow more closely the discussions that are taking place about various international treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u145	Okay, the Minister's giving me a little peace of mind. Getting to the front means actively participating. It could have been that I should have tried in the Minister's words that the Netherlands was going to be a little more isolationist and less focused on international cooperation. That fear is therefore incorrect. The Netherlands is not going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u146	No, that's absolutely not my intention. This international legal order is of benefit to us. In fact, on a number of points we are at the forefront. The only point in all these debates is: if you come to the conclusion at the end of it that it is better not to sign, you should never shy away from doing so. In Europe too, we have become much more critical of this. We just say sometimes "we don't." That's good. But to avoid being the breakaway every time at the end of the process, it is better to think about your bet in front, so that you can influence such a negotiation process in a way that eventually there will be an outcome that you can support. So I am not arguing for isolationism, but for realism. That requires an active posture and not auto-sign to the cross.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u147	I call Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u148	I am glad to hear that from Mr Recourt. I am also very grateful to the Minister for the statement he has just made against Mr Van Hattem's intervention. I do not think that we are helping the rule of law and all those voters, including his constituents, to talk about the integrity of the judge in that way. I do have another point. The Minister speaks of naivety of treaties. He's better at explaining now. Isn't that the same "loop" as other legislation we discussed today? There are many treaties that have been interpreted by law. The Supreme Court has begun to interpret the dividing lines in the strike judgment and to what extent it must continue to work. In other words, even if you look even more closely at the beginning, which is of course always good, you will have the same dilemma that we have also discussed today: that there will ultimately have to be interpretation of the law by judges. I do not think that is a problem at all, but at least I wanted to add it so that the Minister does realize it. It's not two poles. There's a connection between them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u149	Sure. We want judges to do the same. Often it is... I do not want to say legislative powerlessness, but sometimes we, as lawmakers, all come to the conclusion that you cannot further concreteise certain standards at all. You have to look at it on a case-by-case basis. Then let a judge color that in. That too is part of the work they do, and they do it well. Mr. Chairman. Finally, when it comes to the triad, I would like to mention two more things. One point concerns the principle of equality. Mr Van Wely mentioned this. Of course, the legal unit and the equality of law are also of great importance. It is up to the courts themselves to monitor them and to look closely at judgments and to motivate them, for example why they deviate from previous case law. The case law has all kinds of instruments for monitoring this. Think of the points of reference for criminal penalties. But also in other jurisdictions are such directives, which aim to ensure that Limburg is not considered to be substantially different from Zwolle. These are things that are also really the subject of discussion within the justice system itself, because it also seeks the unit of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u150	We have talked extensively about international conventions and how they should be implemented in the Dutch system. I have a question for the Minister about the coalition agreement Trust in the future, again from 2017. So we've been here almost three years. It says on page 51: "The international right of asylum is based on the 1951 UN Refugee Convention. That remains the framework for this cabinet. But the nature and extent of global asylum migration has changed dramatically in recent decades. The Cabinet will therefore have independent investigations conducted into whether and in what way the Convention should be brought to the fore in order to provide a sustainable legal framework for the international asylum policy of the future." My question to the Minister is: does he happen to know what is going on with this independent investigation of this treaty? Because I don't think I've ever heard about that again, but that could be my fault. Can you give us some clarification on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u151	First of all, I am pleased that Mr Otten is quoting this because it is such a good example. It shows that how you deal with treaties and how you may want to adapt them, is not solidified in stone. Now you might have thought that I would have known the answer to this question. I look at the balcony; migration belongs to the part of the three rulers who are not sitting at the table here. But if you want to know, I'll get back to you in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u152	I'd love to. I am curious about the status of that independent investigation of the Refugee Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u153	I would also like to say a few words about the triad across borders. This affects both of us and we're both active in it. I was in Poland myself, and I was shocked by that. If you talk to the President of the Supreme Court, and to the Ombudsman and lawyers and scientists... You know, you'll read it here in the papers and then you'll go there. Maybe I am the most shocked of the conversation I had there with our minister Ziobro. I had, quite frankly, a bit expected that the whole operation there would be disguised in some sort of "reform of the judiciary." But it was quite plain: we are trying to straighten things up and to clear things up. And that's what happens. I believe that there are now fifteen or sixteen laws that are systematically designed to make the judiciary the extension of the current government. It is extremely worrying, for a number of reasons. It runs counter to all the values we have all agreed within the Union. But it is also worrying because this is going to hit us both sooner or later, just in the functioning of our Dutch rule of law. Because the Polish rule of law is the Dutch rule of law, in many areas. In criminal law, in family law, in youth protection law. We assume here that we can trust judgments of judges in Poland. Once Dutch judges can't do that anymore, we have a big problem. We know the question in Amsterdam. We know the first statement now in Germany. You can see it's disintegrating, and we're very concerned about that. There has just been some talk about Article 7. I am pleased that the new Commission is also working on what it calls a 'Rule of Law Review Cycle', which makes it much better able to place individual Member States along a sort of measuring bar of the various elements relating to the rule of law. So let us have that debate in the Council where it has to be done, not only with foreign affairs, but also with the two of us. As far as I am concerned, it is also broader than just the independence of the judiciary. These are the problems in Poland. But many other countries around us have a major problem, for example, with regard to whether the situation in prisons still complies with international standards. It's good to keep each other focused on that. Finally. You know that the Netherlands is very much in favour of making structural funds conditional, for example, towards countries. In other words, if you want money from the European Union, you must also comply with and commit to a number of basic principles. That is not a race yet, but it is good to underline the commitment of the Netherlands and the Dutch government here. Mr. Chairman. Then I go from the foundations and the triad to the other three themes that touch on access to justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u154	I hear the Minister criticising the rule of law of other Member States, but in the meantime this cabinet is going blindly into a European Public Prosecutor's Office where it must also cooperate with those Member States. Then why do you have faith in the operation of such a European Public Prosecutor's Office? Eventually, we can't even get out of there. How should that relate to our rule of law, if you have so much concern about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u155	My colleague is in charge of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. If you would like to know more about this, I would say: ask the question in the second term. But more generally, the fact that we are concerned about what is happening in Poland does not mean that there is some sort of standstill in all areas. We cannot say: you know what, we are waiting for the situation in Poland. It's gonna happen, too. This means looking at what we need to do with new institutions, with new laws and regulations at European level, with cooperation in the area of the judiciary, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police. At the same time, we must press very hard and also call these countries to account when, in the case of Poland, it is about the laws they pass through parliament to turn the judiciary around there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u156	The latter is a question of national sovereignty. In the meantime, however, I should like to give an example of a situation where it is said that if a certain political appointment in a constitutional court does not go ahead, then the rule of law is in danger. Is that a priori something for a country that you would say is at issue? In Belgium, the Green Party demands the appointment of a judge in the Constitutional Court, and if not, then the rule of law is at risk, they put it at risk. Isn't that just as political influence on the rule of law, isn't that the danger you see emerging when political appointments to the rule of law are enforced in this way? Then we're talking about Belgium.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u157	There will be discussions in each Member State, and it will be said that if this is the way to do it, it will be a dismantling of our rule of law. I'm always a little careful with that kind of heavy words myself. Hence my appeal: in the discussion that is taking place here in the Netherlands, let us not immediately say that these are Polish situations, because that does not make very much sense. In fact, that just kills the debate and makes it unreasonable. What matters to me is that, if you look at the situation in Belgium, but also in Spain, where there are also more political appointments in a court of law council, this does not immediately undermine a number of constitutional principles. Those different systems look different. Look across borders: everyone has a different legal system. Fine. The point is that what is happening now in Poland is not a small adjustment of the legal system, but is about systematically working with fifteen or sixteen laws towards pushing out a certain generation of judges, prescribing how to speak justice, disciplinary disciplines and the insecurity that this creates for those who simply work in the justice system. That is really a different situation than at the moment in Belgium.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u158	Mr. Van Hattem, third and final interruption at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u159	Would the Minister not first look at his own ministry, where there is also a great deal of error, where there are also pieces disappearing, where there are sometimes political influences, before he takes measures in the area of the rule of law? Is it not first of all a matter of keeping a high level of clean-up in our own ministry and putting things in order, rather than pointing a finger at other countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u160	I am not going to repeat the debate that has either been held to a large extent on the other side or is still to be held. We really have something different in that than Mr Van Hattem just put down. This is without prejudice to the fact that there are also good things in the Netherlands that we can be critical of, that mistakes are made and that things can be different and better. But that is also without prejudice to the fact that the problem we are dealing with in the Netherlands is quite different from that in Poland. It would also be unwise to distance us from that, because sooner or later it is coming towards us. As soon as one or two Member States are unable to rely on each other through the hoofs and European judges, the operation of our legal system, our legal system, becomes final. We have just talked in detail about organised crime, which does not stop at the Dutch borders. Then we need to be able to work together, so you can rely on each other. This kind of thing is seriously affected. Mr. Chairman. I'm going from the first theme to the other three. The other three are all about access to justice. Because whether it's a conflict at work, a divorce or an unpaid bill, people are looking for a solution that they can go forward with, preferably for a long time. Access to justice means finding a way out in the event of legal problems. It is an important issue in this debate, for which many of you have drawn attention and which comes back to a number of aspects. I shall start by discussing access to justice, followed by the robustness and organisation of the judiciary, and then I will deal with legal aid and, finally, with alternative dispute resolution. Mrs Bikker therefore asked me to answer this at the very beginning, whether I have an idea of where the obstacles lie when it comes to access to justice. She's actually asking for some sort of "access to justice" scan. At present, we know it for a number of sub-areas. A recent study has been carried out by the WODC on access to justice for small and medium-sized enterprises. There's still a world to be won. This will also be the case in a number of other areas. Every five years, the WODC shows how people deal with legal disputes, what paths they take or not, what the reasons are and what results that has led to. This investigation will be completed by the end of this year. Normally, we always send that to the House of Representatives, but I can imagine that that investigation will lead to a lot of interest in you, too. So I'll send it to your room as well. That research is done every five years. We'll do it now and we'll do it again in 2025. This also offers opportunities to see if some of the major system reforms we are working on are having a positive effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u161	How much longer do you think you'll need for the rest package?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u162	To the end, you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u163	Of this term, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u164	For pure speaking time, that is half an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u165	Okay. Then it'll probably be five minutes longer. If that would work, I'd love to. Then I give the floor to Mrs Veldhoen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u166	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let's get back to the last block. I was just waiting for the answer to come, but it didn't come anymore. I asked you about a temporary appointment of judges.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u167	I'll get back to you on that. Then I'll be in court. When we talk about access, sometimes the judge offers the way out. Then you need a strong organization. In the debate on the rule of law that we had with each other over a year ago, justice also played an important role. Understandable and crucial. People should be able to go to court for protection, conflicts with a company, government or a fellow citizen. A few things about that. I am proud of our judges, of the quality of the work they do and of the enthusiasm with which they do their work. At the same time, over the last few years, we have seen pressure on justice. I do recognize myself in the terminology used: the squeaking and cracking, the financial deficits, the delayed digitisation and the critical visitation reports. I've just gone into the position in the trias. I want to concentrate on the finance and the organization, starting with the finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u168	Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u169	Perhaps to save some time: the Minister starts again with access to justice, people with disputes and so on. However, Mr Backer referred to a very large part: the number of people in conflict with the government. I specifically asked for this. Perhaps, before we talk about divorces and so on, the Minister can take that very big piece of work with him, because that is where my group, at least, believes that there is a great deal of profit to be gained.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u170	That too will be discussed at length, although I will do it briefly. Mr. Chairman. We have travelled a long way to get a good idea of the causes. Why did it squeak and crack? That led to an investigation. On this basis, new agreements have been reached with the Justice Council for the period 2020-2022. And with result: substantial investment in justice, 95 million structurally every year, and we have adjusted the funding system by removing fixed costs, such as housing, from the prices of the national service, making funding more stable and less dependent on fluctuations in the inflow of business. Mr. Chairman. Mr Backer, Mrs Veldhoen and also Mr Janssen have asked whether it would not be a good idea, even for the future, to promote justice as a High College of State. By the way, that is a term that no longer exists in the new Compatibility Act. It talks about lectures: Council of State, Ombudsman and Court of Auditors. Anyway, that's terminology. Mr. Chairman. A few things. First of all, I am not in favour of such a status. This also has to do with the fact that the rule of law as such is not a body and all the other colleges are. Secondly, this financial independence is already reflected in, for example, its special and independent position in financing, with specific budgetary rules, objective funding and a number of legal safeguards. The case law is also not shortened when other JenV parts are tight. Different constructions have been considered in the past, but they all depend on the principles of system responsibility and political responsibility. With the current regime, a balance has finally been struck with the desire, on the one hand, to guarantee the independence of justice and, on the other hand, the principle of the Minister's system of responsibility and Parliament's budget law. We discussed our own budget in detail on the other side of Mr Van Nispen's own initiative proposal. A budget of its own would be not my own words, but the words of one of those High Colleges of State, namely the Council of State, are merely symbolic legislation. That is why I am glad that Mrs Veldhoen says: I am going to appreciate the opinions of the Council of State more, because this was at least one of the things I was wondering if you should go through with that. Because, in the end, a separate budget article does not dismiss us from looking critically at everything in times of financial crises. This has also been experienced by the current Colleges of State: the Council of State, including the Supreme Court, also the Ombudsman. Parliament also had to put on the belt at the time. Mr. Chairman. The approach to lead times is an important spearhead. This can be done much better now with the new price agreement. We have made very specific agreements with the judiciary, with the council, for the next three years. With this extra money they will also be able to catch up and eliminate those piles. There is also a good plan, of which I expect the concrete impact in the coming month: by using new means, so-called flying brigades, deploying staff where they are needed, and working more out of court. This is expected to start this autumn. The board also directs this by saying: let's see if small groups of directors can steer this process for the whole of justice. In the direction of Mrs Veldhoen, I would like to say that it is clearly not the intention to interfere with the lifelong appointment of judges with the flexible use of judges. The same applies to criminal matters. The Labour Party, 50PLUS and PVV have asked how we are going to ensure that they are disposed of in a timely and adequate manner. Of course, we've all been able to read the paper for the past week. Additional investments that have been agreed can eliminate delays. That only takes time, because now that the money is there, there are not the judges with it right away. They need to be trained. You can't just open a can. In addition, it is also an indication of the chain of law as a whole. We still see that a lot of sitting capacity remains unused. Think, for example, of matters that are removed from the role at the very last moment, because the investigation is not yet ready or because certain reports are not yet available. Also, as I say in the direction of Mrs Bezaan, it is sometimes difficult to plan, not only with lawyers but also with interpreters. Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS had a question about the secure seating capacity. An exploration has indeed been carried out that shows that it is pinching on a number of parts and that the MH17 process may be needed by mid-2020. At the moment, the State's Attorney General, Justice and the National Real Estate Company are discussing possible solutions. The debate on its financing must take place in the spring, in the whole context of an undermining approach that requires more. Several parties commented on registry rights. Especially in the case of civil claims just above €500, the height is perceived as problematic. In addition, it is considered problematic that a natural person who loses a procedure must pay the higher registration fee if the other claimant is a legal person. That is precisely the reason why we now have a legislative proposal on an adjustment that brings registry fees to a better ratio in the case of lower money claims, up to the amount of the claim, and also seeks to correct that difference between legal persons and natural persons. The bill will soon be sent to the Council of State for advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u171	I have a very short question. You say that it is actually too heavy on the natural person who is suing with a legal person. I do not think that there are any natural persons involved in large-scale business. Those are all legal entities that are suing each other. Why not join the Netherlands Commercial Court, where a soil procedure costs €15,000? In general, large multinationals are suing there. Large businesses actually have the same type of customers. There are no natural persons suffering from it. Why can't that be better differentiated?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u172	Of course, there is already a system of differentiation with different amounts of money, whereby you pay more Registry fee as the claim is higher. I believe that in your input you suggested that the large claims should be taxed more heavily, so that you can ease the small claims a little bit more. Now we see in practice, if you just look at the numbers, that especially in the case of very large progress, the number is very limited. If you raise that, that doesn't immediately create a lot of space for the bottom. In addition, the system also makes the budget more unstable. That is why we are getting rid of that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u173	Mrs Veldhoen, one last short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u174	I believe that research shows precisely that this can be done on a budget-neutral basis. An article has recently been published in the NJB showing that further differentiation can simply be achieved within the Minister's proposal, while remaining within the same budget, but being distributed more fairly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u175	I read that, too. Let me put it this way: our calculators have a slightly different assessment of this. In this context, Mr Recourt asked whether there was any research on the basis of which, for example, the ideal level of registry fees could be determined, so that such access could be prevented as little as possible. There isn't. However, in 2018 the case law did investigate the motives of citizens whether or not to go to court. This shows that the level of registry duties is not or hardly a reason to refrain from proceeding to court. Good information, for example about the chance of success, is many times more important. If there's something being hijacked, that's the cost of a lawyer rather than the law of the Registry. Mr Otten called for attention to digitalisation. I fully agree with him. We stepped on KEI's brakes. Since then, I've personally been closer to that. My ministry is working well with the judiciary on digitisation. Civil and government are back on track. At the end of last year the plans had been worked out and the formal test could also be requested. One of the agreements we have made with the judiciary is to have the review, which is normally carried out by the departments, also carried out by the incumbent magistrate and thus prevent future accidents. Various questions have been asked about the organisation, for example about the organizational culture and about leadership development. As a result, and in response to Mrs De Blécourt-Wouterse's question, I would point out that the case law is really in the process of ensuring that it remains attractive as an employer, not only for lawyers who want to become judges, but also for many other disciplines and functions. We now see that in the figures. For example, if we look at the number of judges in training now compared to five years ago, it has almost doubled. Mr Otten asked for a dispensation scheme so that experienced lawyers can flow in faster if you need it. I don't quite recognize the obstacles. Even now, very experienced lawyers can get to work fairly quickly as judges or counselors with a very shortened, often also on the job, training program. Work pressure and safety are paying attention, especially after the terrible events of the past year. The toga professions must be able to do their job safely. Last time we discussed appointments in detail. In the meantime, following a motion by Mr Groothuizen, I have also asked the Council of State for information to see how they look at the political influence that is undoubtedly always there in certain appointments versus the system and political responsibility that should always be there. More specifically, Mr Recourt asked about the constitutional proposal to amend the procedure for the appointment of members of the Supreme Court. The consultation of this proposal has now ended. Reactions are being processed. The aim is to send the proposal of state law to the Council of State before the summer recess. Then there are a few things about socially effective justice. You can see that's releasing a lot of energy. This is actually about real problem-solving and bringing justice closer to citizens. The temporary experimental law can also help with this. We've completed the treatment in the Lower House, so I look forward to the treatment here in the Upper Chamber. As a result, Mr Recourt called for attention to be paid to the responsive government. Mr Janssen also mentioned this. I will deal with this later because it is also one of the main pillars of the reforms we are undertaking in legal aid. Let me focus on the Awb and the legal framework. The question was whether this should not be changed because of the Scheltema proposal and possibly the right to make mistakes. First, the change of the Awb to regulate that the government should be more responsive. Indeed, we notice that people's confidence is affected when the service is rigid. Too many people get caught up in procedures. I would point out, however, that the Awb already has a lot of customization and even needs to be applied, but that it is not always fully used in the implementation of laws. Let me mention some when it comes to reasonableness. Article 3.4 Awb sets out the obligation to balance interests and to respect the principle of proportionality. Article 4.5 Awb provides for the possibility of correcting an incomplete application. A little further up is the inherent derogation. I can go on for so long, because it's kind of a long list. If you compare administrative law with civil law, administrative law offers much more possibilities for weighing and checking. In my view, the greatest task is to ensure that this space is better used. To promote this, an Awb toolbox has been developed by the country's attorney's office for municipalities and executive institutions. That's where it gets straightened out. My colleague Knops sent it to the House of Representatives at the end of last year. I imagine you'd like a copy of that, too. I'll make sure that comes your way. In other words, in my view, the solution is not so much in adapting the Awb, but mainly in implementing it. However, any adjustment may also be useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u176	Assuming that this was the point behind this block, I would say that the government Commissioner, Mr Scheltema, is not for nothing. He's the great Awb expert and advisor to the government, right on this point. He says, "Let's do this now." Apparently, he thinks extra space is needed in the Awb. Not from his authority, but from my own common sense reasoning: when you want to promote that response, it also helps to put that explicitly in the law. That gives room for all those civil servants and citizens to really implement that. Why would you leave it? I understand that the Minister can't promise it right now, but in that last sentence I don't rule out the possibility of the law being amended. Maybe there's room. I ask the Minister if he can put this question into practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u177	What I am doing with my colleague, Mr Knops, is looking very specifically at what is needed for certain jurisdictions and what can be adapted in the laws and regulations in order to provide a little more space. The more generic regulation that Scheltema proposes sounds sympathetic but also raises a number of fundamental legal questions. This would then apply to the whole of administrative law, unless you are going to exclude areas. That's where I see trouble. Take, for example, foreign law. I only have to refer to the discussion we have had about the discretionary power and the broad political desire not to make it too big. You'd do that with the introduction of such an article. Then you will also have the discussion about open standards, which we have just talked about. Is that what you want? So I am not immediately enthusiastic about such a generic provision, proposed by Scheltema. I feel much more about looking at specific policy areas and sub-areas, where you could offer more explicit space.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u178	Let's take foreign law. I was a foreign judge a while ago, and I remember a case well. Someone came from Iran with a death sentence: look, I was sentenced to death in Iran. What did the Supreme Court say? Too bad, too late, we're not gonna look at that anymore; you should have turned it in sooner. In my plea, I said, "Make sure the judge looks at the contents of the case." Don't hang citizens, even strangers, on deadlines. Also for foreigners, things can be very unreasonable in individual matters. That formulation of Scheltema and other legal conditions can really be a bit more flexible to get a responsive government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u179	I agree with Mr Recourt that it is useful to take a critical look at legislation and regulations, and that we are doing so in areas such as this. But I am not immediately convinced of the usefulness of such a generic provision. Discussion can always take place, but perhaps we should not bring it to a conclusion tonight. You know where my hesitation is. Finally, the error and comparison with France. That's the comparison we made. The French legal culture is much more centralistic and uniform. In the Netherlands you can object free of charge to a government decision, which is in fact a free recovery option. That is why we have come to the conclusion that a right to error should not be introduced as a generic thing in the Netherlands. We continue to bet on more customization. Mr. Chairman. I wanted to move on to legal aid. It's good to talk to your room about that. I'm gonna try to make that short. The importance of legal aid is not discussed: it is not a luxury, it is just a fundamental right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u180	I'm interrupting you for an interruption by Mrs Veldhoen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u181	I have two more points that go with the previous block. I would like to hear a response to Ruth de Bock's call on the public campaign The judge is here for you too. I also refer to my question about the professional standards that should be introduced into justice in all sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u182	Let me start with the professional standards. The funding for this lies in the agreements we have now reached with the judiciary. That room's here. I think that the campaign 'I myself have recently spoken with Ruth de Bock' very much in line with all the energy we are now putting into improving the zero and the first line in legal aid and legal aid. It should apply not only to people with a small wallet, but to everyone. Just show you when you're in your right and inform people about it. That's definitely something we're picking up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u183	Let me make two brief points. I understand that, according to my information from the Council of Ministers for Justice, the professional standards are not fully funded, at least not the capacity to do so. For example, monitoring requires an additional 7 million a year to complete implementation. As far as Ruth de Bock's appeal is concerned, I find the triage at the front and the information given there fundamentally different from making it known to everyone that the canton court is a very easily accessible judge. That's two different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u184	Still, we're both gonna do it. A better zero and first line is not just helping people with the triage, a good advice and the legal GP function, which I am excited about. It also contains information: to show people when they are in their right and to help people who might come a long way on their own with standard forms. We can do better in the Netherlands. Now if you have a legal problem and you go looking, you end up in some kind of jungle with well-meaning advice, which you have to ask yourself is who is behind it and whether they are reliable. We can do better, and we will do that with the reinforcement of the zero and the first line.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u185	Any short questions for Mrs Veldhoen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u186	May I conclude, then, that the impression that I had of you trying to keep people away from the judge is incorrect? Can I draw that conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u187	I don't want to keep people away from the judge, I want us to help people solve their problem as soon as possible. A lot of people with a problem don't want a lawyer and don't want to go to court at all. They want a solution to their problem. Sometimes you need a social attorney and sometimes you can't get around that judge. But it would be so beautiful if things were to go faster, simpler and less stressful, if we could help people sooner and better. I think we can do that very well with a reinforced first line. That is why this debate is wider than just more or less money. In the Netherlands, we pay 400 million for the legal aid we have financed. That is twice as much per capita as in Belgium, three times as in Germany. We have a duty not only to see how much money has to go somewhere, but also to see if we get where for the money we put into something. Then it could really be better. Renewal of the current system is necessary. We see that sometimes things escalate or juridise unnecessarily. On the other hand, people who are just outside the system are also empty-handed, the fall of the middle groups. We are going to focus on better access to justice, independent legal protection, improving quality, where possible a accessible way, where necessary with a legal procedure and with a more comprehensive look at the front. And important: also fewer procedures by the government itself. In the end, a future system will provide real solutions and better solutions for people, as well as adequate compensation for legal aid providers working in that system. Mr Recourt asked whether we have taken into account what is needed for those legal aid providers. We did. At the end of last year we found some sort of interim solution by saying: it takes time for us to get there, even when it comes to the room for improvement of fees. In order to bridge that, we have made additional funds available. Then I come to the reinforcement of the first line. The report "Knowing is not yet done" of the WRR was asked for. What exactly do people need? Together with Mark Bovens we map exactly that for those target groups. Some people really need a little help and are taken by hand, others are much more self-reliant and would have been helped with some better information and some better advice. Work is currently under way to provide insight into different target groups. In order to make the services provided by the Legal Service more consistent with the wishes of citizens, a local approach is being looked at: can we work towards more accessible facilities? So not 30 large offices next to the large stations, but much more in the capillaries, e.g. libraries, district centers and community offices, and also better findable online information and customised advice. Mr Recourt asked whether it would not be possible to provide modest public legal assistance. Then you're actually making some kind of extension of the legal counters. I find that interesting. That is precisely why we are now testing within the system renewal in a number of places, in five cities to be precise. We're paying for that, too. We are currently looking at what needs to be done. There is no provision for first-class staff to go to trial. The help they offer is to provide information and advice and perform actions such as help with letters or contact the other party to see if you can solve such a problem. Mrs Veldhoen referred to the legal doctor. That actually goes a step further. We are currently investigating this in the municipality of Heerlen, where the pilot House of Law started in January. There they experiment with a more integrated approach to people's problems in a close collaboration between the municipality, the legal office and also the court of Limburg. That means that someone like that is really being helped in an integral way. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the responsive government to which Mr Janssen referred. That too is an important element in the revision of legal aid, a way of seeing if we can bring down the number of cases and where unnecessary proceedings are taking place. We do that in a number of ways. I asked the former chairman of the CAK, who had good experiences with this at the time within the CAK, Daan Hoefsmit, to initiate a process which would reduce the proceedings on my behalf and also on behalf of all the secretaries-general of all the departments. The idea is actually: look more humanly, occasionally pick up a phone instead of standard but refer people to objection and appeal procedures. Then we also look at the biggest polluters. Some of them belong to ourselves, for example the Council for the Protection of Children and the IND. You cannot say in advance that we do this less, because the consequences are always very far-reaching. Then you also need a judge's judgment and you want people to get good legal aid. Outside my ministry, you should think of for example the UWV, the SVB and the Tax Administration, which are then taken away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u188	I'd still like to go back to the legal aid block, if you'll allow me. I asked two questions that I have not yet received an answer to. It is a question of excluding criminal law, in short, from the mega-processes, from legal aid or from the provision of a separate provision for this purpose. That's one. The second is that as long as the IND is overloaded, as is currently the case, legal aid in the asylum procedure will not be abolished, as this will result in an extra heavy burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u189	I wasn't finished with my cube. If it's all right with you, come along. Let me finish with Mr Janssen: how are you going to deal with this in concrete terms? Let me give two examples. It helps that this kind of implementation organisations simply have ways of doing it in a different way. The CJIB used to have two tastes: you have a fine and you now have to pay it in one go. If it was said "I don't want to," we'd double it and double it again. The idea of punishment, it's great. But what do you do with people who might be willing to pay but can't pay? They actually didn't have a lot of tools in their hands to do what. So we have created the payoff arrangement. If you're driving through red light, you're gonna have to sit on the blisters, but you can pay it off in a couple of months. That's one. Two. Much more is being looked at, for example through payment profiles: can you get from the millions of transactions you have on an annual basis sooner and faster where people might really have a problem, where debt problems are? Then there will also be room for the officials in the workplace who are very keen to do that work, because they also see that they are not on earth to push people even further down the well, but to see if you can come up with reasonable solutions. Then you can pick up the phone once in a while and say, "You haven't paid your health care allowance for two months. Is something wrong? Can we do something for you?" That is just a microexample of what we can do to give this human dimension concrete hands and feet. That's in the front, the root. The second is the stick. I recently consulted an amending decision on administrative law costs, because I actually think it is okay for a government to be sentenced to the full cost of the proceedings if a procedure is initiated and the court flagged back. So we make it attractive for large implementation organisations to work more with the human dimension on the front. At the back we have a stick behind the door when it comes to the financial incentive to reduce it. The second line. A number of questions have been asked about legal aid packages, which are not, moreover, a form of privatisation. On the contrary, I would like to say, because we always need social lawyers to do that job. These legal aid packages are based on the idea: come to an integral treatment of a legal problem, with an integral cost and an appropriate cost-benefit balance. It's being experimented with right now. This year, 10 million has been allocated to tackle this project in a project manner. I hope that there are also many social lawyers who will sign up for this. But it's much more a different way of working than bringing something to the market. Quality assurance is certainly important there too, I say in the direction of Mr Recourt. Great is that we are here at the beginning, because then we can do the quality requirements well. As far as I am concerned, they apply to everyone, regardless of whether they are lawyers or other legal aid providers, or, if necessary, legal aid insurers. I don't care about any of that, but they all have to meet the same quality standards as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u190	Thank you, Minister, for this finish line, but my question is about how. The legal profession has its own right of disciplinary action and other methods of quality assurance. If it's insurance, maybe you should look at the Kifid. If it's about others, I don't know. In short, if you want to have the same standard at the end, you have to take care of that standard. How's the Minister gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u191	Sure. That starts to look at what standard we would like to set. What do we think good legal aid is? Those are not just the parts that the law of discipline oversees in the law of law, but I am talking about, for example, good communication with your clients, the people seeking justice. Is your network okay? If we want not only legal disputes to be resolved, but also cooperation with other public administrations, debt relief and ggz, for example, means that you have to operate in a network. These are all things that are not currently subject to the disciplinary law of lawyers, but which are quality requirements. We are now developing this with different partners, also with the NSA, on the front, and then looking at how to test it in a good way, a way that is fair and just for anyone who could and would like to offer a certain form of legal aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u192	That's good to hear, too. Apparently, the criteria are now in development. Can the Minister tell us what's going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u193	If you ask me when we will have a better idea of this and when it should be ready, I say, looking at my officials: during the year? Yes. Thanks for the helpline. Then I can quickly move on to the questions where Mrs Veldhoen is still waiting for answers, namely criminal law and major cases. Research is currently being carried out into the extra-hours system: when are you eligible and is that still reasonable? This is being done in response to a number of critical comments made by the Wolfsen Committee. That report will be made public shortly. I will respond to that. In addition, I would also like to take with me the proposal to find more connection with the financing of extra hours in mega-businesses. I don't know if you need to make that a separate game, but at least we're looking at the procedures. Then a question was asked about the measures taken in the field of asylum assistance. I understand the concerns expressed on this point, but I can assure you that implementation of the measure will not be foreseen until 2021, when the IND has largely eliminated the backlogs. Finally, the question of the transfer and the assumptions underlying the system review. Mrs Veldhoen's question was whether she could expect legislation in this cabinet period. Let me start with that last one. The answer to that is no. We have deliberately chosen not to start legislation, but first to see what works in practice, and to allow this operation to take place during two reigns. This hasn't been solved in four years. You're gonna need more time for that. Just that development approach, seeing what works in practice and constantly testing your assumptions, can mean that you need to adjust. Very recently, there has been a validation of the assumptions, including the financial assumptions, underlying the system review. I'll send it to the House of Representatives shortly, with a copy to your Chamber. That could lead to you having to adjust that again. You're gonna have luck here and there, and you're gonna have setbacks elsewhere. It's actually a continuous process of trying things, calculating things and then adjusting them. Mr. Chairman. I come to the final issue: alternative dispute resolution and renewal of justice. Sometimes the way out is a hallway to the judge. It should be open, too. At the same time, most solutions do not come from the courts. By far the most solutions come from people themselves. And luckily, because in society it is very nice when people do not have to go to court for every misunderstanding, but simply come out together. It means that solutions last longer, and it is often faster and easier. In our legal system, dispute resolution through the courts and dispute resolution outside the courts also complement each other. In fact, they reinforce each other. You could say that in the shadow of leading judgments of judges people make agreements about their legal problems. They may come to a solution faster or easier themselves. And judges are becoming more and more proficient in testing settlements at a hearing. How often are people not sent back to the hall? That doesn't mean there's no room for improvement. Access to justice also means access to correct information on the possible directions of solution and the associated advantages and disadvantages. I can do better than that. Let me mention a few things. Reference has already been made to the book Towards the renewal of civil justice, in which Ruth de Bock has launched a number of ideas. I've just sat around the table with the authors and the editors. For example, simpler language and faster feedback on incomplete files are being developed. A pilot for digital access to collection cases will also be launched shortly. These are simple interventions in civil procedural law that can improve it. Mrs De Blécourt made a critical comment on experiments and pilots. Nice to see all those pilots, but is there a review later? Doesn't the seeker get lost in the forest of new methods? I don't think this is gonna happen. Pilots are always evaluated within the case law. What this shows is that they are also very much appreciated by those who seek justice. The question is, of course, at some point what the next stage is. We have had a first phase of: let as many flowers bloom as possible. The Council of Justice has now indicated its intention to step up this direction in relation to the transposition and evaluation of these pilots. They want to structure this more, so that choices can also be made on a given which of these things are rolled out in the regular case law. I will not dwell too long on reparation law and mediation in criminal law. That is an extremely interesting subject, and I know that some of you have an excessive interest in it. However, I would like to reply briefly to Mrs Baay-Timmerman's question about victims, because it also plays a role in this process when it comes to anonymity and the protection of privacy. I'm totally sharing that. I also received that White Paper at the time and also spoke to victims. They say, "You're the victim, you're gonna get a lot over you, and then you're gonna be in the paper by name. It suits me to keep some distance towards the press. I strongly support self-regulation. There is also a code of the Council for Journalism. He says, "Shortly take off and anonymize those names, just like that happens to suspects." In addition, I asked the Victim's Aid Fund to talk to journalism. I asked them to organise dialogue sessions with journalists about the privacy of victims in the media. In fact, it is a kind of self-regulation, from the press itself, to see if you can give that an additional incentive. Then mediation. New mediation legislation is coming up. You received the letter on that. Mr Recourt asked if I could promise that a partial dispute settlement would be part of the new legislation. I think this is an excellent instrument in itself: those seeking justice who use the services of the mediator, for example, can benefit from it, and then resume mediation. That certainly has my attention. The question is, what is the way in which we can manage that properly? On the basis of Article 96 of the R.R., both parties can also apply a partial settlement of disputes. So the question is what would add something like that, especially with the 2016 bill, which was a lot of discussion. Much of that discussion focused on the dispute settlement contained in that bill. So that's still quite complex in legal terms. But I'm on it. Mrs Veldhoen asked about legal protection in the application of out-of-court dispute resolution. That is, of course, a very broad question. Where there is an arbitration clause, such as a determination agreement, the execution must also be referred to a court. There is also a question of legal protection in this respect. Then I come to technological developments. Mrs De Blécourt asked two questions about this, first of all about algorithms in justice. Mr Recourt also drew attention to this. Mr Grapperhaus has already said a few things about detection methods and powers, for example in the context of undermining and cyber. Another example, which I am more involved in, is the application of AI by, for example, the case law itself. Think, for example, of artificial intelligence for searching relevant case law. Governance and society are increasingly using algorithms. In addition, justice will be more often judged on the legality of decisions taken by the government and partly based on the results of algorithms or artificial intelligence, I say in the direction of Mr Recourt. Think, for example, of the ruling of the Council of State in the PAS-related matters. Mr. Chairman. Privacy issues always play a role in this. There was some discussion about that. I would also like to refer briefly to the letter I sent about risks related to data analysis. In that we say: on top of the privacy legislation, the GDPR, we should look at whether we need certain guidelines that public institutions should adhere to, for example on explainability and transparency. This is currently being experimented on the basis of guidelines. This can sooner or later lead to more generic laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u194	At the point of algorithms. It's obvious it's the future. That we're gonna have a lot of fun with that, too. But now the downside. I had two questions about that. What kind of standards does the government actually use itself? Have they actually been formulated yet? And two: it is nice that the judge can also judge this, but then a judge or the citizen who proposes to the judge must of course know that algorithms have been used and what search criteria have been used. I thought the Minister's answers were a little vague. Could you sharpen it up, please? And by "you," I mean the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u195	I referred to that letter I sent. I believe that five or six of these principles are set out. First of all, this is transparency, so that citizens and businesses know what they are exposed to. I also mention testability, which is particularly interesting in the case of artificial intelligence, because when using static algorithms, a judge can always see which formula has been used. But with artificial intelligence, the algorithms change. So the judge should be able to say at some point whether a decision taken three weeks ago can be reviewed. Hence the testability. I do not have them all ready, but there are five or six principles on top of how to deal with personal data that is well secured and well regulated in the GDPR which is now said: let's apply it in practice to see if that can then lead to legislation and regulation. If you want all five of them, I'm gonna whip them up; you're gonna get them in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u196	I'd love to, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u197	Then let's get lawyers and judges ready to go along with that digital innovation. Mrs. De Blécourt asked about that. In that context, maybe two things. It is nice to know that not only judges, but also lawyers, for example, are working to see what this form of innovation means for the development of the profession. The NOvA, the Dutch Association of Social Lawyers and the Legal Assistance Council are currently working on an office for the future, in which this is simply simulated. What's to do to get people ready? This suggests that there should be a whole range of additional training courses. In fact, I think it is more relevant to ask what this changing society is asking of our legal service providers, and what role the government has to play in this. This is very much in line with my letter from the beginning of February, when I briefly took your Chamber into account in the state of the future legal services in which we intend to develop these kinds of vistas. I expect to be able to inform your Chamber before the end of the year. So I will work out what that means for the training, the type of professions and so on. Finally, two very specific questions of which I did not know what to include them, starting with Zeeland. Mr Otten asked for measures to compensate. Well, the Secretary of Defense has mentioned the intended decision. On the other hand, we have said that a careful follow-up process is needed, together with the province of Zeeland, the municipality of Vlissingen and the waterboard, whereby a special advisor under the direction of the Minister of the Interior will examine before the summer what possibilities there are for achieving a good form of compensation. Mr Van Wely asked about the whistleblowers. This is mainly the responsibility of BZK, but I would like to say the following. A whistleblower exposes wrongdoing. Officials can report non-integer behavior. A whistleblower in the government gets help reporting a failure. For example, there is also a specific whistleblower scheme for state officials. They are protected against any prejudice by the employer, for example, they may not be dismissed as a result of a notification and in the event of a failure in good faith the whistleblower does not suffer any disadvantage in his legal position in the performance of his duties. Apart from the regulations per department there is a superb staircase: if a whistleblower feels that his report is not being properly picked up or handled, he can then report it as a failure at the House for Whistleblowers. I encourage everyone to report abuses at all times. Mr President, I really think I have answered all the questions and I see you nodding in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u198	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Ministers, for the comprehensive answer to what should be a debate in general. Part of it was, but part of it wasn't. That immediately makes my somewhat difficult assessment clear. The First Chamber is not really the Chamber for many motions. Motions are already about concrete proposals, and that was not the intention. On the other hand, it also gives something unsatisfactory, because the ministers have given a little answer on some points, or they have given answers that I did not quite like, or they said that things should be sorted out which then come back at a later date. I thought: what should remain of this debate? My main line was: the rule of law in the Netherlands is working quite well, but not as well for everyone. A number of people are left behind. If, in the end, the supplement scheme treats not only the government chronically, especially with a small scholarship, as if they were criminals, but if that also stands in front of the courts a whole number of times, then from the perspective of those people there is really something going on. My plea for a more responsive government is embraced on the one hand, but on the other hand it is really consistently rejected and its consequences, such as a legislative amendment, are rejected. That's too bad. The specific example of the Minister for Legal Protection is: pay attention, we are generically out of discretion in foreign affairs. No, we're not done with that, but we took it to a committee. The discretionary power still exists. Would the Minister like to respond to that? And I am somewhat disappointed that we are not looking at the more formalisation of that responsive government by adapting legislation either. I shall look briefly at my card, because I had written down some other things during the debate. Another example that was a little thin in the answer is the legal counter. On the one hand, the Minister says: we are going to set up a broader task for that. And: that also runs in practice. But that turns out to be very limited: a call with the other party and so on. My idea was to experiment with helping to draw up an objection, a petition, a defence, you name it. Maybe it is a bit too far to go to court, but when it comes to all those legal acts that a citizen himself can do hard I remind you of the WRR's report, then the ability to do so is simply very limited. I want a government that stands next to the citizen and helps actively. Why? Because that helps the citizen and because it helps our society one step further. It also helps prevent many very expensive procedures that take a long time. With regard to legal aid, I would like to make one more point. The minister said he knows there's a shortage. Once upon a time a bridge has been helped. I still have a question about that. Out of my mind, the bridge was 71 million and the deficit was a few hundred million. This would then have to be financed from returns from the new system. But if it's a bit disappointing, that new system is going to last forever. I hope it goes faster. But you're still gonna keep a hole, aren't you? Then 71 million is not enough to cover that period, even because it is unclear how long that period itself is going to last. I would like a more specific answer to that. Mr President, I will conclude. As far as the State of the State of the Law is concerned, my group is reassured on a number of points that the cabinet is doing the right things. On a number of other points, it is still a little too thin. The State of the State of law is found in the protection of citizens, but not all citizens are equally protected, not all crime is dealt with equally harshly, and not all public actions are directed at all citizens equally. My group and I will come back to this much more, including in other debates. For now, once again, I would like to thank the Ministers very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u200	Thank you, Mr Recourt. Mrs Baay-Timmerman has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u201	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for Legal Protection for his clear presentation and answers to a number of questions. I do, however, miss the reflection requested on the pressure being placed on the disclosure of hearings in connection with the unfortunately necessary anonymity of toga carriers in criminal proceedings. I think that is more of a question for the Minister of Justice and Security. Finally, I have an additional addition to the issue of the protection of the identity of victims, which I have included in my motion, which I have already announced in the first term, which I have tabled. The President shall: Mr Baay-Timmerman, Mr Backer, Mr Otten, Mr Veldhoen, Mr Nicolaï, Mr Rombouts, Mr Janssen and Mr De Blécourt-Wouterse proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Victim Support Netherlands and the National Lawyers Network of Victims of Violence and Victims (LANGZS) have been calling for better protection of the privacy of victims for years;]] [[Whereas the protection of the identity of victims is not identical to that of suspects or convicted persons in such a way that this latter group is only referred to in the media by the first letter of their last name and a small beam in front of the eyes, whereas most of the information contained in the victim's personal data, such as name, address details or photographs, appears in the media without express consent;]] [[Whereas victims should at least have the same rights to identity protection in the media as suspects and/or convicted persons;]] [[noting that many victims are often not informed of existing rules and rights for victims in relation to their privacy, thus enabling unnecessary personal data and details of the victim to be brought to the attention of third parties;]] [[calls on the Government to provide better information to victims on existing privacy rights so that they can rely on them;]] [[Invites the government also to urge the Dutch Association of Journalists and the Dutch Society of Editors to use this also fully for victims by analogy with the "gentlemen's agreement" used by the media to protect the identity of suspects, unless victims themselves expressly authorise the publication of their privacy data,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-R]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u202	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of my group, I would like to thank both ministers for their comprehensive answers. I'll start with Secretary Grapperhaus. We are pleased that you acknowledge the importance of the district agent and that a reconnaissance is being carried out, of which the First Chamber will receive a copy. We are also pleased that the Minister has informed us that new detection methods, including data-driven cybersecurity control and detection, will be fully deployed. We look forward to the necessary safeguards for privacy in legislative proposals that I understand will soon reach the Upper House. We are also pleased that we are working on a police science master's programme at the VU in collaboration with Professor Van Koppen and that the minister is behind it. Then I'll come to Secretary Dekker. He said that the registry rights would be compared with the claim and that that bill would come to the Upper Chamber. We are pleased to hear that. Minister Dekker also said something about the organizational culture. In doing so, he drew attention to safety and workload. The theme of safety was that he was able to do your job safely. But my group meant more that there must also be safety that you dare to speak out and therefore there is no culture of fear. Maybe he'll be able to go into that in a minute. Minister Dekker has said something about the pilots that will be evaluated and that they are so appreciated by those seeking justice. If that is the outcome of the pilot, then also the VVD is very pleased. In this way, I would once again like to thank the Ministers for their comprehensive answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u203	Thank you, Mrs De Blécourt. I call Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the two leaders for their answers, for the enthusiasm that they expressed and also for the firm struggle they do together with all the people in the department and in the executive bodies to ensure and support our rule of law every day and wherever necessary. Mr. Chairman. I started my contribution by saying that justice increases a people. For my group, law goes even deeper and further than a social contract, which the Minister talked about. In this respect, I would like to express my appreciation for the essence of Mr Nicolaï's speech, which was precisely about the deeper value of the law, which is also true when a majority of the people sometimes make different choices in it. Justice reigns and will have to rule. It is precisely for this reason that the government, in all its forms, must serve and remain in the law. Let us all know what we are talking about. Mr. Chairman. It is precisely in this light that I asked what the rule of law may cost us. It is an important question that is largely raised in the Rosenmöller motion. As far as I am concerned, the cabinet is taking this question even more widely, but I realise that it is not going to work today. The urgency to at least work hard on an answer has been sufficiently underlined and I hope that the Minister will also want to transfer it to the researchers in terms of timing. I know that guarantees do not exist on this point, but the minister who brings something forward must have a lot of impact. The value of the fundamental principles of our rule of law, including the trias, cannot be sufficiently underlined. I appreciate the commitment of the cabinet to this and the clear language that has sounded in it tonight and also earlier. Thank you for the commitment to explicitly address the position of treaties in the Constitution and the effects that constitutional review may have in the course of constitutional review, in the light of the Remkes Committee's report. The Minister has been passionate about how costly and vulnerable the rule of law can be and has referred to Poland. In the direction of Mr Van Hattem, I would like to say that Poland is not participating in the European Public Prosecutor's Office. In that sense, the PVV can be reassured and go along. That would be another hopeful sign this evening. The Minister also spoke clearly about the impartiality of judges. Unfortunately, I have not heard the group that has said the most about this in this House, in this debate and in an earlier debate. But I mentioned all the positive elements. I have the silent hope that they too are convinced. Then access to justice. The Christian Union Group wants to know exactly where it pinches. I am pleased that there will be a five-yearly WODC report that will make that clear. This once again underlines Mr Rombouts' argument that it matters that people stay here longer, because I did not know that that WoDC report came once every five years and I have been warned for another five years. I took that report, the old study from 2014, for a while. The Dispute Settlement Delta is called it. If I see it right, it's only about civilians. That is important, because those are the very first people who seek justice. Now a study on SMEs has just been done, so I don't need a new study for everything now. But for the next round, which is only in 2025, I would like to ask the Minister, even though we attach great importance to what Mr Rombouts said, that we do not know where we stand then, to ask the Minister to involve us in precisely how entrepreneurs and especially SMEs are working out access to justice. I would like to see the views of these studies, as far as possible, already in the legislative proposal on registry rights. Mr. Chairman. I have clearly expressed my support for the Minister in the fight against serious crime, particularly drug crime. I have expressed an encouragement to increase it as widely as possible with the various ministries concerned. The main concern for my group is the monitoring of the integrity of the financial system. This is broader than just the legislation on money laundering. This also applies to the advisory sector in the broad and also to the sensitive sectors which Mr Rombouts has already mentioned in his contribution and earlier motion. Together with many colleagues in this house, I ask the Minister to improve the understanding of where the vulnerabilities are. I have a motion to help you get a first look at that. The President shall: Mr Bikker, Mr De Blécourt-Wouterse, Mr Rombouts, Mr Backer, Mr Recourt, Mr Veldhoen and Mr Van Dijk proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the fight against serious drug crime is taking place on all fronts;]] [[Whereas the fight will have to be fought not only by the Ministry of Justice and Security, but also by the other ministries, such as Finance, Economic Affairs and Climate, Social Affairs and Employment, Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations and the Ministry of Education, Culture and Science;]] [[Whereas the flows of money in serious crime do not remain underground alone and certainly not forever;]] [[whereas the motion-Rombouts c.s. (34997, point Q) calls for sensitive sectors to be addressed to their responsibilities;]] [[Considering that the Dutch financial system, the underlying financial sectors and also the advisory sector in a broad sense should be allowed as far as possible to remain free from connections with the underworld and undesirable money flows precisely in the context of monitoring their integrity;]] [[calls on the Government, in order to protect the integrity of that system, to investigate the vulnerabilities of the financial system, the advisory sectors in the broad sense and the sensitive sectors, and to examine them systematically at a systematic level in order to obtain an initial overview of the vulnerabilities and whether the current legislation and policies provide an adequate response to the fight against serious crime or to inform the Court of Justice on this issue,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-S]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u205	Mr President, my time is ticking, but I see that you are merciful and I have only a few small points left. I would also like to thank the Ministers for expressing their commitment to the priority of tackling trafficking in human beings. I know that the legislation lies with the Secretary of State, but this lives wider in the Chamber, for example with my colleague in the SGP. I encourage you to speed this up. It is in this house that legislation has been stopped. I am aware of that. But it did happen in the previous cabinet period and so a long time ago. The sector, the municipalities and the victims are crying out for clarity. A warm encouragement to meet us quickly at this point. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the issue of digital disruption. The Minister and the Christian Union agree on the urgency, but this creates expectations for the policy the Minister will take forward. I fully understand that the cabinet response to the WRR report will come at the end of this month, so I do not want to anticipate it now, but the Minister is aware that expectations have been raised. I sincerely hope that he will do so in a superb way. Having said that, thank you, Mr President, for your expert leadership. This was the contribution of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u206	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I call Mr Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u207	Thank you, Mr President. I have three more questions to the ministers, but I would like to begin by thanking them for the comprehensive answer. I note that, as far as I am concerned, the great gain of this debate is that the vast majority of the groups in this House have also looked at themselves and stated that the rule of law is in any case served by respectful dealings between the legislator and the judiciary. That vast majority has also shown that late-thinking statements must no longer remain undisputed in this house. I congratulate Minister Dekker on the firm way in which he has done this today, supported by some of our colleagues. I would like to thank Minister Grapperhaus for saying at the end of his contribution in the first term that a delta plan is only a delta plan if it is 'delta plan' above it. I understand very well that he says that this includes structural funding. That's what we need to agree on. What needs to be done here requires a long-term trajectory. Partly because of the naming, the awareness can continue. This Minister can count on the CDA Group to do everything in its power to give him the support he needs to get structural funding for that delta plan. Having said that, there are two other things that have kept us very busy in the elaboration of the forthcoming delta plan. First of all, prevention. I think that over the next few months we should look for ways of involving Secretary of State Blokhuis in this and making him take the action of a previous exchange of letters with the two Chambers. I would also like to thank his party mate, Mrs Bikker, for the motion she has just tabled. I think it is a little support in the back of the cabinet to also shape this element in the development of the delta plan. Then there are my three questions, Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask Minister Grapperhaus whether he would like to think again today, not necessarily, about having an outboard engine for the implementation of Mrs Bikker's and myself's idea of stimulating the sectors that are sensitive to undermining and taking action. We all know that outboard engines help to speed the boat up. That could also be the case here. Unless I'm wrong, the minister forgot to answer my question about personal security. No? Then I'd like to hear the answer again. Then I don't have to check the Acts. Predictability versus imaginability. Finally. Our rule of law is served by a solid foundation, solid pillars with powerful leaders. I would like to ask the Minister once again, in the second term, to say a little bit more clearly than in the first period, that it is good that these institutions are run by people who want to commit more and more to those institutions. It may be ten to twelve years so that, when those people come on TV and address the Dutch people, they do so with authority. Then you see that they are experienced people with a great track record and with a great deal of knowledge of things. It is not appropriate to work here with the short deadlines that apply to the ABD. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u208	Thank you, Mr. Rombouts. I call Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before this Rutte III cabinet disappears for good in the mist of the multicolored autumn forest to quote Dries van Agt correctly, I still have a repeated appeal to remain firmly committed to more security, more police, more detectives and, above all, firm penalties. This is something our society really needs. Once again, my appeal is to do something about this and not, as we have seen today in the state of the rule of law, to worry about slavery, as some speakers are doing here. The present is a much bigger problem and we really have to deal with it. That's a really big point. We heard in the debate the Minister say that the use of interpreters is a point in the judiciary. It ensures a long duration of procedures and great pressure. We recently had a conversation with the head of the Public Prosecutor's Office, who expressed a similar concern, namely that the use of interpreters puts considerable pressure on the apparatus. The use of interpreters is not for nothing. That is because there are a large number of non-Dutch-speaking foreigners in our society. It is the effect of open borders and the related mass immigration. That is why the question to the cabinet is how sustainable our rule of law is in unbridled mass immigration and open borders. Could you perhaps reflect on that again? Mr. Chairman. In that context, we really need to do something about the 1951 refugee treaty. That has rightly been mentioned by Mr Otten. The parties of the two ministers, the VVD and the CDA, have in the past called for this Treaty to be revised. Can we really expect action on this from this cabinet? Then I come to the point that Mrs Bikker has just made. She says that Poland is not yet participating in the EOM. That's a sharp observation. But if Poland or any other country decides to join the EOM, then the Netherlands is also attached to it. The Netherlands cannot step out of the EOM unilaterally. There's no opt-out. Moreover, agreements are also made with third countries through the Council of Europe. So these could also be countries that this minister may question the rule of law. I hear the Minister express strong criticism of Poland, but look at a country like Turkey: the Turkey of dictator Erdogan, which is still a candidate country of the European Union. That still receives large sums of money, including as a candidate country. When are we going to hear a sharp criticism of that? If something is not a rule of law, it is Turkey. Then there is the debate on the judiciary. The left-wing parties in this house are talking about the integrity of judges and the rule of law. There should be absolutely no criticism of that. But if a judge has determined that an asylum seeker has been brought to trial, then the same parties, including the Christian Union and all the other left-wing parties who are talking about this, are using every means to undermine and take action against that judgment as far as possible. They also agree, for example, that the ban on burqa is being ignored, that our laws, which have been passed here, are being ignored. Then where is the respect for the authority of the judge and for the rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u210	Do I hear the representative of the PVV calling for undermining of authority? Do I really hear him say that? I do not understand anything about that, if I compare this with the opening of your speech, that there should be stricter action, of course, against others than yourself. How can I rhyme with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u211	First of all, my speaking time continues, but I would like to respond to Mr Backer. I'm not saying I'm calling for the undermining of authority. I say that left-wing parties are in the process of undermining authority by putting pressure on the Secretary of State and using all kinds of action committees and NGOs to ensure that the judge's ruling is totally ignored. That's undermining authority, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u212	I have now understood what Mr Van Hattem's definition of undermining is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u213	Mr. Van Hattem, you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope for once that D66 will come to the understanding that such practices must stop. In conclusion, a comment made tonight by the well-known criminal lawyer and professor Geert-Jan Knoops, following the announcement that the Minister is withholding crucial information from the Chamber about the Julio Poch case. I quote Mr Knoops: 'A rule of law that sinks so far to conceal this truth for ten years is no longer a rule of law'. And that clearly seems to me to be the state of the rule of law, which we are discussing today. That is why there are still serious concerns about the PVV. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u215	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the two directors for their reply and I would also like to thank their collaborators. I walked into the office by mistake during the break and saw large schedules with categories of answers and questions. I was impressed by the thoroughness with which our comments and questions are received and dealt with here in this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. "Policy debates are about everything and lead to nothing." People who have been involved in this for a long time know that this cynical remark often contains the necessary truth, but not today. I quote my colleague, Mr Kox, who had to stay in Brabant, in a previous policy debate. And why not today? Because I think we've been talking about an important topic. We did that in a setting where we could also go into the depths. Undoubtedly less interesting for the media, but I think it is interesting for the rule of law. I have also noticed, as Mr Rombouts has just said, that there is a broad consensus on respect and stability in the rule of law. This gives hope for cohesion in society and cooperation. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijk asked a nice question about the origin of the law. Minister Grapperhaus went into this and came out with the social contract. Then I must think of the French thinker Rousseau. He once exclaimed towards the king of Poland There is obviously always something with Poland and the Duke of Lorraine: "The criticism is easy, because an attack with a single word requires pages of defense." I would add: and also words, many words to defend. But as Mr Nicolaï rightly said in his impressive contribution, words have meaning. It is therefore important that we discuss it carefully. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Minister Dekker in particular for the strong position he has taken. I take it unseen that this is on behalf of the entire cabinet, and that is why it does not need to be repeated again by Mr Grapperhaus. In her maiden speech, with which I congratulate her, Mrs Veldhoen spoke from her own experience about squeaking and cracking. I think there have been some answers, but I also realize that it is a much more fundamental problem. I've been talking about that myself. Both Minister Dekker and Minister Grapperhaus have shown their readiness to do so. There are still some very complicated discussions to be held in the coming years, because I do not think it can continue in the old days. Mr. Chairman. What this debate could bring is an encouragement to the three powers of the triad to be in dialogue about how we can strengthen legal protection for citizens and how we can do it responsibly, each with its own responsibility. That is why I am tabling a motion on behalf of many colleagues in which we propose and ask the Chamber to ask the Council of State to provide information on how best to conduct this discussion. Why the Council of State? Because, almost every year in his annual report, he points out the dangers of the retiring legislator and we have had an earlier exchange of views on this subject with the Council of State. The Minister referred to the annual report of the Supreme Court, which also makes suggestions for improvement. In short, because these powers have to do with each other, they can also talk to each other. Again, while maintaining its own responsibility. I would like to propose a motion for a resolution to that effect. The President shall: Mr Backer, Mr Bikker, Mr Dittrich, Mr Veldhoen, Mr Baay-Timmerman, Mr Bredenoord, Mr Rombouts, Mr Stienen and Mr Otten proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the close link between the legislator and the administration, between the controller and the controller, has made the citizen more dependent on the protection afforded by the independent judge for his rights;]] [[Considering that the improvement of legal protection provided by legislators and administrations to individual citizens could be beneficial in linking judicial experience with the results of legislation and regulation and with the functioning of the administration;]] [[points out that it is desirable to ask the Council of State for information to indicate how, taking into account the various roles of the trias politicians, the quality of legal protection for the individual citizen can be strengthened jointly by legislator, administration and judge,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-T]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to say that we are asking the Council of State something. Then it'll probably come back here. I also think that I am speaking for myself and I would like to devote time to taking that a step further. In this case, I am not asking for anything from the cabinet, but above all from ourselves, because we have also looked at ourselves today. I also wish the rulers much strength and wisdom in their difficult task, with their great responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u217	Thank you, Mr. Backer. I call Mrs Veldhoen. Mr Recourt has another interruption to Mr Backer. Go ahead, Mr. Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u218	Yeah, just a question, 'cause I was listening, so maybe I heard it wrong, but who are we asking what? Can we not do it ourselves, is actually the question, that request to the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u219	I think it is not easy with many different groups to determine exactly how we can do it ourselves. That is the first point. The second is: I think information can help us in shaping how we are having this conversation. On the one hand, we have the judiciary, we have the legislator, and we have the board. In today's debate, several speakers, including myself, have indicated that you have an improvement in many cooperating organisations. One can learn from the other. I think that the Council of State can help us define what we can do in it, what our contribution is to it and in what proportions we could do it with the other two triads without getting industry blurry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u220	Thank you for the explanation, but we ask the government to do this for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u221	The chairman was captivated by emotions when reading that piece of the motion. We ask the Council of State to provide information to this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u222	If you don't mind if I hang on to that for a second? It is an unusual route, but if the motion is adopted, I will lead that signal back from the Chamber to the committee and ask the committee to make a draft letter with a clear statement of the question to be asked. That letter then goes back along the regular route and finally it is adopted in plenary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u223	Mr President, thank you. I'd told the Warden if that's the way it could be. I suspect this is indeed the route. Then there may also be groups that have not signed up, but then it will be a decision of the whole Chamber and that would be even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u224	Then we agree. I call Mrs Veldhoen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both ministers for all their answers and, in particular, thank and appreciate Minister Dekker for the clear and strong way in which he has expressed his views on justice and defended it, including in the debate with Mr Van Hattem. Thank you for that. It is good to hear that the Minister stands for the independence of the judiciary and is far removed from the accusations of activist judges. Also good to hear he says he's proud of our judges. I hope and encourage the Minister to do the same in the public debate. Especially for those people who hear nothing but sounds about those activist judges and indeed doubt that independence when they are in court. So I appeal to him to put this even more into the public debate. We have talked about the independence of justice, the own budget for justice and the Rosenmöller motion. We have heard from the Minister that the assignment for the investigation is almost complete and that he sees no possibility of extending the motion further. We conclude from this that he does not intend to include an investigation into the independence of the financing of justice in the context of that motion. The Minister says about Van Nispen's bill: the Council of State gave an opinion on it and considered that the bill had no more than symbolic meaning. I'm gonna say, "Let's get to the bottom of that." That is why I have tabled a motion to instruct the Court of Auditors to investigate the independence of the financing of justice. The President shall: Mr Veldhoen, Mr Baay-Timmerman, Mr Nicolaï, Mr Rombouts, Mr Backer, Mr Recourt, Mr Janssen and Mr Bikker proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the independence of the judiciary is an essential part of the trias politicians;]] [[Whereas the independence and financing of the judiciary are interlinked;]] [[Whereas the independence of justice benefits from independent financing;]] [[noting that High Colleges of State have an independent financing structure;]] [[Considering that in 2016 the General Court carried out an investigation into the financing of the case-law;]] [[calls on the Court of Auditors to carry out an examination of their previous findings and to advise on how to better safeguard the independence of justice in the budgetary system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-U]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Time's running out, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u227	That's common practice, even in the case of a motion. That's all speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u228	Then I learned something. Another point is the IND that is overloaded. It does not appear to be easy to solve this problem, although the Minister says that this will be the case by 2021. In any case, he expresses that confidence and that expectation. As far as my group is concerned, it is clear that the IND should not be assigned any tasks at the moment. Abolition of legal aid in the first phase of the asylum procedure means, first of all, more work for the IND. In addition, there are a lot of other fundamental objections from my group. Since it is only a matter of waiting to see whether these problems were resolved by 2021, my group would like to table a motion which looks at this problem. The President shall: Mr Veldhoen, Mr Karimi, Mr Backer, Mr Bikker, Mr Vos, Mr Nicolaï, Mr Janssen, Mr Rombouts and Mr Gerbrandy proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the delays in examining asylum applications are such that at least EUR 70 million of periodic penalty payments are expected to be paid to asylum seekers by 2020 alone;]] [[Considering that these delays are due to capacity shortages and problems in the internal organisation of the Immigration and Naturalization Service (IND; see the report of the Investigation Office Significant Public, 21 February 2020);]] [[calls on the Government not to introduce any new regulation that assigns additional tasks to the IND until these delays have been overtaken and the IND adheres structurally to the legal decision-makers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-V]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u229	I spoke in my first term of office about concerns that live with me about the hollowed-out judicial chain. I must say that those concerns have not been fully taken away from me today. I honestly didn't expect that either. But there's no beginning to that either, if I'm being completely honest. I am particularly curious to see what the Minister is going to do about the problem in the judicial chain when it comes to justice, precisely because we have just heard this week that there are more than 20 000 cases on the shelf that simply cannot be dealt with. The question is: what structural measures are being taken? I would like to hear a little more about that from the Minister. The 95 million added last year has largely been devoted to old deficits and new projects. We have to note that despite this investment, there are still very serious delays. Moving judges is not the solution either, because that is a waterbed: if you remove them from one court, then the other courts have shortages. So that's not a structural solution either. The question to the Minister is whether, in his second term tonight, he will be able to say something about what he is going to do in order to provide more structural solutions to the chain, which, as Mr Backer points out,'squeaks and cracks'. Maybe the concerns will be taken away after all tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u230	Thank you, Mrs Veldhoen. I call Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u231	I've been six seconds behind. Apparently, the duration is also speaking time. Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the two rulers for the answer. I'm gonna go through it a little bit, but that's because I wrote along in the order. The Minister of Justice indicated that 3-5-7 would also be introduced into the State's Attorney's Office. At least that's what the DA wants. But they haven't filled out the vacancies in a long time. My question is, then, when should this have been dealt with? I assume that's when things have to be in order. That is what I am asking the Minister responsible for the system. Mr. Chairman. All in all, it has become a bit of a budget debate, even though I would rather not have liked it and would rather have gone a little deeper. I do sympathize with Mr Recourt. On the basis of concrete amounts, we went some way with the Minister of Justice from the spring note to the autumn note to the budget and then to the elections. I regret that on the one hand. On the other hand, so be it. Mr. Chairman. The minister mentioned one ministry, including police. He became more and more enthusiastic about it as he spoke longer. It was "good" and it was "efficient." One word I didn't hear him mention, and that's: is it also "manageable"? I can imagine that some of these ministers' predecessors have their own perception of this manageability. Maybe he'd like to say something about that. We might have talked a little bit past each other about the cost of security. In the conversations with organizations involved, I've learned that it's not just about the costs of the agents. It is also about the costs of transport, workplace, living and so on. There are a lot of additional costs. My question to the Minister is: is that also account ministry, or is that account own organization? Mr. Chairman. I still have a number of questions that remain in the direction of the Minister for Legal Protection. They were obviously not on the map and in the schedule that Mr Backer saw. I very much agree with the Minister when he says that, in the area of social law and the number of cases, we must look urgently at the government and at what can happen, even outside the Ministry. It is precisely with these organisations that we can take the first hit, because that is what we are going to do ourselves, I say to the Minister. Before we try to help the outside world individual for individual, we must of course also do so. So I would like to call on you to take a good look at that and take it very seriously. Mr. Chairman. I have also heard the Minister say that he certainly does not want to get out of human rights treaties and therefore not out of the ECHR. That reassures me, and I'm glad. I had asked a question about victims of cybercrime who fall between shore and ship when they report to the police because they do not know what to do with it. The Minister of Justice and Security referred to the Minister for Legal Protection. It was nodding "I'm about to," but then I didn't get an answer to my question. That question was about people who have become victims of computer crime and who report to the police. However, the police often do not know what to do with it because they do not have the capacity and the knowledge. That's what's gonna keep these people from falling apart. Mr. Chairman. What both ministers have left behind is my suggestion to pull the dust comb through the legal system to see what has been stuck to supposed activity and toughness over the past decade. What worked and what didn't? Can we not clean that up in the administrative burden for once, so that we can get some financial space? I visited the TBs clinic De Rooyse Wissel with a number of colleagues at the end of February. There we were given a number of practical examples of things that were once conceived out of decisiveness as a result of an incident, but which are only bothering them and which are only working against them. I think there are many more examples to come up with. Mr. Chairman. A question remains, namely the relationship between the capacity of the judiciary and the implementation of the Environment Act, which is going to require additional capacity, as is the implementation of the new Code of Criminal Procedure, which is foreseen. This is going to require additional capacity and resources. My question was: has there been any thought about how to fill that out? Mr. Chairman. The minister gave the example of the House of Law in Heerlen. That's a good initiative. Keep doing that, I'd say. That's beautiful. For my part, too, I strongly congratulate and support the clear positions taken by the Minister for the judiciary this evening. Compliments for that. We wholeheartedly support that. Mr President, all in all: in the last fifteen seconds between the lines, I felt that Mr Rombouts had a very slight preference for the name 'delta plan' for tackling undermining. Let me say, for my part, that he is very much in favour of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u232	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague Nicolaï talked about accounting for the past. That's a nice call and I'd like to make a small advance with the next passage. "The foundations of Dutch civilization root in Christianity. The party is aware that it is above all the Christian spirit that made our people realize the value and freedom of man and his responsibility. It therefore considers it an inexplicable requirement that by strengthening this spirit moral uprooting and spiritual nihilism be overcome." So much for the VVD's programme of principles, from 1948. That's where we're from. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the rulers very much for the answers. That is particularly true of Minister Grapperhaus. I had fewer questions for his colleague. I thank him for his answers when it comes to tackling drug imports through Zeeland ports, but also for what he said about strengthening local police and detective forces. I reiterate the need to strengthen legislation to tackle abuses such as money laundering in the prostitution sector. Mr De Blécourt has just spoken about her commitment to women. Well, here's a job. It's really not like this time of year to put women in a shop window as merchandise. Speaking of slavery! I would also like to thank the Minister very much for his sporting offer to visit an SGP meeting and to discuss the moral conditions for our rule of law. I'm just warning you, I think I'm gonna come back to that sometime. Hopefully we can come to an agreement. I would also like to thank the Minister for his commitment to consider introducing an annual 'fight against anti-Semitism' flag in municipalities. Is the Chamber kept informed of this? And if so, in what way? Finally. It's tomorrow's Prayer Day. In many churches there will be explicit prayers for wisdom and insight for our cabinet for the benefit of our society. I wish that wisdom very much to these two rulers too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u234	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I call Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u235	Mr. Chairman. We have talked all day about the state of the rule of law and about the capacity problems. Capacities problems with the police and the search, in detectives and in justice. We have tried to propose a number of structural solutions to this. We were somewhat disappointed that the Minister rejected our ideas a little bit briefly and easily and said: we have been doing that for so long now, and I will not think about that further. We found that a little disappointing, didn't we? We know the minister as a very open-minded person, so we were a little disappointed. To see if we can conduct an investigation into a structural adjustment of the detection model and to bring it more into line with successful detection models in other nearby countries, we are tabling a motion. That's a motion for an increase in crime detection. I'll hand it over to the chairman in a minute. In addition, I asked the Minister for Legal Protection for an update on the independent investigation of the 1951 UN Refugee Convention, which was promised in the government agreement entitled Trust in the future. I understand the Minister will come back to that. Nevertheless, I shall table a motion on this matter. Immigration is, of course, a huge problem that you have to tackle structurally at the source. And that is when it comes to revising or doing something about the 1951 UN Refugee Convention; a very different time and a very different situation. We are therefore tabling a motion for a resolution on this. We are also waiting for the answer from the Minister for Legal Protection in this area. Depending on that, we may be able to hold our motion, but we will assess that later. I now hand over the two motions to the chairman. The President shall: Mr Otten and Mr De Vries tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the detection rate of crimes in the Netherlands is far behind our neighbouring countries such as Germany;]] [[noting that in the Netherlands the willingness to make a declaration is also far behind other countries;]] [[Whereas the Dutch prosecution policy is based on the principle of opportunity, with many cases not being prosecuted, which means that the willingness to report and resolution rates of crimes are far behind international standards;]] [[Whereas countries which make use of the principle of legality, where the suspicion of criminal offences should in principle always be prosecuted, often achieve (very) higher detection rates than the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to launch an investigation, for example by the WODC, into the possibilities to what extent the (partial) introduction of the principle of legality can contribute to a more effective and faster administration of justice, lower recidivism and a higher willingness to report, so that crime can be effectively reduced in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] Mr Otten and Mr De Vries tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government agreement Trusting in the future of the Rutte III cabinet of 2017 on page 51 states the following cabinet proposals: "The international right of asylum is based on the 1951 UN Refugee Convention. That remains the framework for this cabinet. But the nature and extent of global asylum migration has changed dramatically in recent decades. The Cabinet will therefore have independent investigations carried out into whether and how the Convention should be brought to the fore in order to provide a sustainable legal framework for the international asylum policy of the future.';]] [[Calls on the Minister for Legal Protection to provide the Chamber with a written statement before 1 June 2020 on the status of the abovementioned independent investigation into the UN Refugee Convention and to share the content of this independent investigation with the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-W]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-X]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u236	Mr. Chairman. Everyone starts by thanking both ministers for answering all the questions. It would be a little weird if I started that, because I only asked one question to one minister. A lot of subjects that I would have dealt with normally, I haven't dealt with today. They have been dealt with by all kinds of other parties and groups. I have taken a separate subject, but on behalf of the group I would like to point out that we are also very pleased that today the Minister has so explicitly protected the judiciary from the insane and bizarre accusations of activist and political justice. I would like to make that point on behalf of my group. Then I come to that one question and that one minister, Minister Grapperhaus. He started out so beautifully. I thought he'd go all the way with me. But gradually he didn't do that at all or not at all. I understood that the Minister also saw that the whole structure we are talking about today is ultimately based on a conviction. I myself referred to that as the "general awareness of the law." Then I heard the minister say something about the contrat social. But that's different. Mrs Bikker saw that very clearly. I hope the Minister will reconsider this, but we are not going to have all kinds of philosophical discussions here. But a countersocial isn't exactly what I mean when I'm talking about a general right consciousness. General awareness of the law has to do with legal concepts and values and a countersocial has more to do with the political effect of shaping a society. I have talked about the reflection on the responsibility for historical injustice. I felt like my story was being widely shared. In fact, I found the Minister very cautious in his answer. Firstly, I had asked him how he thought about what I had brought forward, but he did not give an opinion. Secondly, he shifted it to the Minister of the Interior. Then I think, "What's behind that?" The big point is actually what I also encountered in a statement by a VVD council member in Rotterdam, when it was discussed whether there should be an apology for slavery on behalf of society. That council member said: "That is a wrong step because it blames the people who are not guilty of it at all; people who live today, such as Mr Van Hattem." I kind of agree with that. If you're gonna talk about debt, you're gonna come up with some really tough questions. And that was exactly what I put forward in my story. I thought I would actually offer the Minister a solution to get out of that struggle we've been dealing with for years: it's not about guilt, it's about responsibility. I would like to know what the Minister himself thinks of that. He referred to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and said that there is still a dialogue going on there. Then I think, "Is that a negotiation?" Or is that about how the words are supposed to ring again? Or is this dialogue going to look at what is needed among those people who feel they are victims of slavery? I say no, the ball is with us; the ball is with the rule of law. We must get our own recognition. We must be accountable ourselves. There is no need for this dialogue. And why? Because we, Mr. Van Hattem, are struggling with that in the present. Mr President, I would like to present a motion which I would like to put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u237	Will Members refrain from laughing out loud at colleagues? That is not collegial and it is not this Chamber's own to do so either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u238	I find it extraordinary that a debate on the state of the rule of law on a personal struggle by Mr Nicolaï of the Party for Animals with the history of slavery. I would like to ask you this. If you are struggling with something in the present, why are you not struggling with Islamic slavery, which is still the order of the day, for example, in a country like Nigeria? If you are talking about the history of slavery, why are you not talking about the role of the Arabs, who have played a very bad role in this? We don't hear about that. Only one-sided blame is placed on ourselves, on the Netherlands. You want to impose a piece of historical self-sustainment on us. What good is that for and what does it have to do with our rule of law? There are enough problems at the moment: crime, you name it. Then you come up with a struggle with a historical problem. What's the point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u239	First of all, how does Mr. Van Hattem know that I'm not struggling with the things he started? Maybe I'm struggling with that. I didn't raise that struggle today. I have raised another struggle today, which is also being discussed in today's debate and which has to do with our own history. That is why I raised this aspect, which has everything to do with how we deal with our deaths in the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u240	I may be able to involve anything that could have been a struggle in all history from the beginning of our era, but the point is that I have not heard you about this Islamic slavery that continues to this day and the struggle that the Netherlands has waged against Islamic slavery. Michiel de Ruyter, for example, has fought against this in several sea battles.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u241	Mr. Van Hattem, what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u242	Does Mr Nicolaï speak here with a realistic view of our rule of law? Why don't we hear about dealing with crime, for example, from street thugs that make the streets here unsafe? Why can't we hear him talk about a historic struggle?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u243	Mr Van Hattem can tell us anything about the street scum. He doesn't need me for that. The President shall: Mr Nicolaï, Mr Janssen, Mr Backer, Mr Rombouts, Mr Recourt, Mr Veldhoen and Mr Bikker proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important that the Dutch rule of law takes legal responsibility for the injustice caused by slavery and slave trade;]] [[Whereas it is important to examine how knowledge about the history of slavery and the slave trade can be promoted and how to account for the injustice associated with slavery and the slave trade;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether there is any reason to consider, as in France, the law on slavery and the slave trade that has taken place in the past as a crime against humanity, and to consider whether the same law should ensure the establishment and maintenance of a National Monument Slavery Warriors, a Knowledge Centre Slavery Warriors and a Slavery Museum, and report to the Chamber within two months at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VI-Y]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u244	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u245	Mr. Chairman. I will try to keep the order of the questioners as much as possible, but I note that I do not yet have the last motion in my possession. But he'll be here any minute, I suppose. I'll start with Mrs. Bikker. He's filed a motion that I can give Chamber judgment. Three questions have been put by Mr Rombouts. The question of the outboard engine will of course be included in the delta plan, which I very much hope will be provided with structural resources. So you will certainly hear a few things about how that was designed. I have to say, however, that, following a motion in the House of Representatives, we are looking at an overarching Directorate-General undermining in order to pull this delta plan all the way, drive it or whatever we want to call it. I had answered the question about personal security, but I am going to say something about it, because Mr Rombouts has raised an important point. It is true that the experts have advised that criterion of prolificness. I fully support that. This places a greater burden on my resources and is also a greater pressure on the rule of law. I believe that this is the least I am obliged to do for those who promote and protect the proper functioning of that rule of law, namely judges, prosecutors, lawyers. And let me make it quite clear to journalists. And, of course, the same applies to politicians. Mr. Chairman. Those statements about the management of the institutions, I have said about this: in the end, it is about the right person at the right place; in other words: the right person in the right place. Knowledge and experience are extremely important, and also the organisation around it, how the person concerned will relate to it. And certainly a role will also be played by the deadline for which someone is committed, where for me it will always have to be the starting point that I would like to go with people who, given their knowledge, suitability and experience, can also connect for a longer period of time. In addition, you could discuss with each other how long that term is. But I think that Mr Rombouts and I understand each other very well when we think that this should be a time limit of at least four years, as is desirable in business, for example, when a chairman of a board of directors is appointed. The same applies to the institutions of the rule of law. Mr. Chairman. Mr Backer has asked for information, but that is something for your Chamber itself, so I will not say anything about it. My colleague Mr Dekker will return to Mrs Veldhoen's motion. There were a few other questions. Mr Janssen asked about the security costs that mostly, with everything related, return to my ministry. If there are all kinds of posts mentioned, I have to put a bit of a disclaimer, because of course I do not know how far that will go. What it comes down to, of course, is that I will have to monitor and secure the resources for the system in the first place. Then there's the Code of Criminal Procedure. A special committee led by Prof. Rianne Letschert looks at the question of what the impact costs actually are, even if we look at the judiciary and the like. At the moment, nothing has been said about this. I recently spoke to the committee, but it is still working, as Mr Lubbers once called it. Then there's the dust comb question. In general terms, I can say that I expect this issue to be addressed in the Rosenmöller investigation, the investigation on the Rosenmöller motion. I cannot anticipate how that will be done. Then I'm going to say something about what the independent researchers think is relevant to their research. Mr Janssen asked about the manageability of the Ministry. It could be said that the coalition agreement looked more closely at it, because it was said that three rulers had to come to this ministry. That is at least one consideration. Another consideration is, of course, that there are the issues at stake. The issues are there and they need to be dealt with anyway. I have always said and I absolutely believe that it is for the rule of law, I say it this way, because lawyers sometimes get a little nervous about words such as "efficiency"... is a good thing that Justice and Security are the two domains that are in a departmental connection. I would also like to refer to what I said about this in the first term. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mrs Bikker's motion (35300-VI, S), which I give to the Chamber. Mr Otten proposed a motion (35300-VI, W) to examine the extent to which the (partial) introduction of the principle of legality could contribute to a more effective and faster administration of justice. I have already explained in the first period that I see no reason to consider applying a different principle. In a previous debate on the rule of law, I discussed in detail the performance of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the Netherlands. I have done so in the context of the Breeding debate. I am not saying that to say that people who joined after that were not there. I say that to indicate that that is to be verified in the Acts. On the occasion of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, I have once again stated why we have traditionally opted for the principle of opportunity in the Netherlands. This is a very conscious choice, which is also linked to other parts of our legal system and to how we are organised in the Netherlands in the rule of law. In Germany, for example, this is quite different in the Länder. I have to say immediately that I cannot place such a one-two-three the percentage of cases referred to by Mr Otten for Germany. But that is no reason for me to renounce my firm conviction that the principle of opportunity has a very solid anchor in our legal system and that the Public Prosecutor is working very well. The desirability is right, and a number of Members have stressed today that the magistrate must have room for tailor-made work, tailored to the circumstances of the individual case. This is how we are in the Netherlands and this is how the opportunity principle fits us very well. I admit that this is a somewhat long-winded argument to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u246	The percentage of 57.1 for Germany comes from this report. I could possibly show the Minister that. I think we can see that the detection rate in the Netherlands is considerably lower. We are simply trying to propose one of the possible structural solutions. The minister says, "Well, we don't." So what does the Minister see as a way of resolving this problem in order to increase the rate of detection and the willingness to report? There is a structural problem in the Netherlands compared to other countries. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u247	Let me just say that Mr Otten makes a conclusion that I am not at all happy with, namely that the solution rate would be significantly higher in Germany or in other countries than in the Netherlands. No figures were submitted in those other countries. I am saying that I cannot at the moment say how I should assess the report on which Mr Otten is speaking and which I do not know about, in relation to the performance of the criminal justice chain in the Netherlands. These achievements are judged to be very good internationally. That is on the basis of a coherent system, of which the principle of opportunity is just part. I am happy to hear what Mr Otten is talking about, but that does not change my belief that we have a good system in the Netherlands. If Mr Otten then asks, and I could imagine that there are no measures to further improve performance, I say: yes, there are. Of course, they are already being used systematically. One of the things I pointed out in my introduction in the first term is the fact that the cabinet has invested more in resources for the authorities in the rule of law. Following a question from Mr Veldhoen, I said: yes, that must be not only with the police, but also in the follow-up routes. The figures reported by the D.A. last week show that we are not yet there with regard to the use of additional resources. Hence my desire for more structural resources. Moreover, I explained quite in detail in the first period that, if you use those resources, it will take a few years for it to actually have effect. That's what you see in the D.A.'s office. There are other things like cybercrime. That has not been discussed at all today, but that is an emerging social phenomenon. When I say "emergency" it sounds a bit like it's from the last year, but we see an increase in the last few years. It is precisely in this context that the cabinet has also provided additional funds, which I did not even mention, to focus entirely on improving cybercrime performance. I can mention a number of measures, but I think it is my job as a minister to continue the good principles of the system and then to see what further improvements can be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u248	Mr Otten, third in this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u249	Short, Mr. Chairman. This is not a motion to call for the system to be completely overturned tomorrow. It is a motion to see if there can be an examination of whether part of that difference, which I believe there is and which, according to the Minister, we can then find out. What's the problem with looking at that? I see the Minister's attitude that he doesn't even want to investigate it at all. What's against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u250	I have been very embracing with regard to the Rosenmöller motion from your Chamber. I certainly believe that you can make improvements in the criminal justice chain, as was the case with that motion. I have explained out loud and argued why the principle of opportunity fits very well in our system and why I do not expect any improvement from replacing the principle of opportunity with the principle of legality. If I look at the priorities and at all the tasks that lie on the board of my colleague, Mr Dekker and myself, then I think I must say at some point that we must get to work. We always are, and we certainly need to investigate things. But if I am at least convinced that something fits very well in the system, then I do not have to investigate it now. I'm dissuading the motion. Then I come to the final motion, that of Mr Nicolaï. I would nevertheless like him to consider holding the motion so that the Minister of the Interior can give a written appreciation of it. Through you, Mr President, let me look at Mr Nicolaï to see if the motion can be held.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u251	Thank you, Minister. If Mr Nicolaï wishes to have some time to think about it, he can do so next week, by the way, if we vote on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u252	Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. Let's be clear about that. I explained that the Minister of the Interior is really working on this issue. As far as I am concerned, the motion is going through that right now. If the motion cannot be held and the Minister of the Interior does not have the opportunity to give an appreciation, it is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u253	Clear. I do not see Mr Nicolaï coming to the microphone right now. He doesn't want the floor. Now I can see him coming to the microphone. He does want the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u254	I was just thinking. That's not bad in this chambre de réflexion either. I am quite prepared to hold the motion to see what the Minister of the Interior could bring in, but we must of course set a deadline. On the other hand, I also said in my term that this dialogue does not matter to me at all, if we in the Chamber think that the rule of law now has the ball and we are going to kick the ball. But I don't want to be unkind either. We are all in favour of the Minister coming to the understanding that this is the path that needs to be followed. So two weeks, three weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u255	Let me get this straight. We cannot accept the claim that this falls within the field of justice, because this issue has been invested in the portfolio of the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. It's just publicly accessible that that's how it's invested in that portfolio, so it's what it is. I shouldn't take that off. I think it should be possible to come up with that appreciation by four weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u256	Then I think that's a wise decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u257	Does that mean you're holding the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u258	Then I'll hold the motion pending... I do not know if this minister can agree on that term on behalf of the other minister. But let me put it this way...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u259	Well, I'm a minister of time, so I guess I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u260	That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u261	Just so we're clear, Mr. Nicolaï. You are asking for your motion to be held until you wish to put it back to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u262	The motion will be held for four weeks. Let me put it this way: for up to four weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u263	At the request of Mr Nicolaï, I propose that his motion (35300-VI, letter Y) be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u264	I now turn to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u265	Mr. Chairman. In the second round, there were, in short, a number of critical reflections, a number of concrete questions, motions for resolutions, so I walk past them all and a compliment that I would like to underline. We can only do this work thanks to the excellent commitment and work of all the officials of the Ministry of Justice and Security; there is only a very small part of those people here in the gallery and there are many more behind them in the rooms and in the tower. They make every day hard for the cause. I want to start with the critical reflections. I heard it in Mr Janssen's contribution and in Mr Recourt's input. It was about responsive government, innovation in justice and Awb. I think that we will be talking about this very soon, also because there is legislation in the pipeline. The Experiment Act is coming up. You were also critical of Scheltema's initiative, but there is an overall duty of care within the Awb. I think there is ample opportunity to consider this in greater detail. Concrete questions. I'm gonna take them out. Mr Recourt asked: the 73 million is not enough for all the controversies over these two years? True, but it's enough for this cabinet period. It also gives us the opportunity to see where we stand in two years' time. Because if there is a further drop in the number of cases, then there will be something of water under the bridge, creating the possibility to raise lawyers' fees. I'm afraid to say exactly where we're gonna be in two years. We'd better make the assessment and see what else is needed for bridging. Mrs Baay-Timmerman asked for a public hearing. That's a fair point. What happened last year was, of course, unthinkable, you can say. Still, it occurred to me. This also led to a discussion about the possibility of working with the use of anonymous judges. That discussion has been held. My conclusion, but also that of the case law, is that such a measure does not, in principle, fit within our democratic rule of law, in which public, independent and impartial justice are core values. Judgment by anonymous judges is not a public case-law. I therefore consider that to be contrary to these core values. This means that other measures must be taken to ensure the safety of all those involved. We are. Mrs De Blécourt extended her motion on security. And yes, we were just talking about physical safety. This is more about security within an organisation, culture, social security. We all know the discussion about the District Court of the North Netherlands. In the meantime, there is a new president and internal investigations are also being carried out. But of course you are absolutely right: you must feel safe. That's what the bosses, the executives are asking for. That also demands something from everyone who works within such an organization. You also work as a team in an organisation where judges of course enjoy independence. You also work within an organization. That's what the investigation is focused on. Mrs Bikker asked about the WODC investigations. Yeah, sure, they're separate now, but they're all repeated. That means those two investigations will be back in five years. We can always see if we can get it together. I'm gonna talk to the WODC about that. Mr Van Hattem spoke of Turkey versus Poland. We're not just critical of Poland. We are also very critical of Turkey. I would say: look at the Acts and also at the input about the possible start of enlargements... And not only Turkey, but also all the others: Albania and you name it. In particular, there is a great deal to be said about the rule of law. Mrs Veldhoen asked for a little more detail on waiting times and lead times. That's a fair point. She asked, "What else is the Minister going to do to bring it down?" Perhaps a little teasing, but we have now taken care of the preconditions. We have looked at exactly what is needed, including financially, in order to reduce the lead times within normal standards in the near future and to eliminate the backlogs. Now, of course, it is up to the courts to do so with the extra money. By the way, I have every confidence in it when I look at what is happening. They're working with flying brigades. Those things aren't taken off the shelf and pushed into the primary process, but they're looking to see if you can do them in separate acceleration chambers. It also looks at the possibility, for example, of using judges who have retired but have not yet reached the age of 70. The possibility of substitute judges is being considered. There are extra powers from outside. With the extra money, more judges can be attracted to do something structural. There have been agreements on more cross-judicial work. Where that is necessary, I will adapt the rules for that, but I think that is very good. Because justice, of course, also has a problem when there are delays in Northern Netherlands with family matters and divorces that are on the table for far too long. That is a problem for the whole of justice. I also think that other parts of the Netherlands should look at whether they can take over part of these burdens or whether judges can take over any of them. There's more central direction in that steering over those courts. It's also being looked at to see if we can light out certain lighter cases, CVOM cases, to relieve the burden. There will be an evaluation of the Traffic Tower to see if better planning can help speed up the process. That is also much more in the interplay between the OM and the judiciary in order to make better use of the existing capacity of the hearing. A very sad thing, I'll just call it short, but there's more than just a bag of money. There's also a plan to actually make this happen. Mr Janssen asked for feedback on two or three themes. Getting started with private public services: yes. I mentioned a number of pillars in legal aid. This is one of the things we can do to reduce the number of unnecessary cases. Sometimes I visit courts and, for example, I ask a team chairman of the Management Department to assess how much he could have done off outside of court, simply because it was obvious. Sometimes it is obvious because an execution organisation, an UWV or a social service, until it goes away. They say, "Well, 30, 40, 50." Then I think we have been very careful with our estimate that it may be 10% less. So that's what we're gonna do. That is also exactly the task that I have given this driver: to involve the implementation services outside my ministry. Where can victims of cybercrime go? For this we are very busy with prevention, because that saves a lot. Many things could have been avoided by greater alertness, so we put a lot of effort into that. If there really is crime, it should be possible to report it. You can do that digitally. There's a national hotline in-house tipping, and the police have recently started a special helpdesk. Something has been said about administrative burdens and the dust comb. You mentioned a specific example from forensic care. We do not have such a comb procedure for the whole legal system, but, for example, we really made agreements in the area of forensic care two years ago. It took extra money to work in the field of security. We also said that we need to do more to attract people. We just need very good people. But we also need to reduce administrative burdens so that more hands can be put to bed and more can be done in the primary process. There is a special task force from my ministry and, among other things, GGZ Nederland who is working on this under the direction of Mr Eenhoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u266	Very briefly, from the practice. We were with colleagues at De Rooyse Wissel. There are just examples of how, in the risk-regulation reflex, measures have ever been imposed following an incident that over the years have simply turned out to be against and are really affecting people in the implementation process. They cost a lot of money, don't add anything and so on. I wonder whether this will be included in the investigation or in those conversations you are currently working on, because this is something other than administrative burdens and just the question of whether we can remove a form somewhere. This is real: can rules that have ever been imposed and countered in the risk-regulation reflex, which we suffer from, come out? 'Cause it doesn't work, and it costs an unnecessary amount of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u267	That's exactly what that task force is looking at. I think we should take a test all the time. We're talking registration and tracking. It must serve a purpose. However, we also see in recent incidents that the inspection, all those involved and also the Chamber, are critical. They say sometimes certain decisions have been inimitable. So you always have to record why you're lighting up a treatment or why you think someone can take a leave of absence. The considerations underlying this need to be recorded. It calls for a good justification and also for a certain form of registration. Paperwork will never completely disappear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u268	Finally, I hope. This isn't about registration. This is simply about measures that have been imposed on how, for example, to be accompanied by leave. There's a reflex on an incident. Many years ago, a number of measures were imposed that are currently affecting people. They say: it doesn't work that way, because it doesn't add anything, but we are taxing the scarce people we have in an unnatural way, without any added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u269	I think that is a very good point. I'd say to anyone running into something like that, knock on the door at that task force. I'll ask Bas Eenhoorn and his people specifically at De Rooyse Wissel to see what's going on there exactly what you've stumbled upon. Finally, Mr Otten's question, which I had left open. That question was about what was going on with the government agreement and the Refugee Convention. By the way, that's the stasis wallet. I understand that a study is currently under way under the direction of Mr Piet Hein Donner. The Secretary of State reports on this in the spring. I can also advise directly on the motion that has been tabled. I advise against that motion, because in that motion I am asked to report on it. I'm not gonna do that, because that's not my deal; it belongs to the Secretary of State. But I think you have a de facto commitment to return to this in the spring. Then the other motions. I have Mrs Baay's motion on self-regulation and the gentlemen's agreement. I'm totally sharing that with her. If I may do it this way: I ask the Victims' Aid Fund to talk on my behalf to the sector, to the editors in chief and to the journalists' association, to see if you can come up with something like this. I like that, because then there's an instance in between. I'm good with that, and then I can pass judgment on to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u270	So you'll ask the Victim's Help organization to talk to you about it. And if that conversation doesn't get much results, what do we do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u271	Then I'll come back to you and we'll see if there's more to it. But I'd like it for my own part. This is about some kind of unwritten rules from the press. I find that difficult, because that's the same press that has to be breathing down my neck. If I ask the Victim's Aid Fund, I think it might lead to a better outcome than when I do that conversation. I think that's better for rolling purity, too. Look, the press must always be free towards me. When I come up with such a question about self-regulation, I feel a little bit burdened. So I prefer to do this with this agency that's in between. He also knows all the ins and outs. I totally agree with your line. I also think that they can achieve a good result. Let's wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u272	Mrs Baay?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u273	I can agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u274	Thank you. Then I can live well with this motion and leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u275	Let me come back to that independent investigation of the UN Refugee Convention. You say: this spring comes that research as envisaged in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u276	Yeah, I got that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u277	Spring starts, I think, about next week. Then, like Mr Nicolaï, I can hold the motion for a resolution for four weeks and then we can wait and see how the investigation is going. Then I'm quite prepared to hold the motion for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u278	You can arrest her, too. I like that, too. I understand it's in May. But the motion asks me to report on that and I'm not going to do that. But if you're holding the motion, I'm fine with that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u279	Mr. Otten, your third?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u280	Then we'll hold the motion for a while. Then we'll wait and see what we can find out. I now also have the German report with figures. I'll hand that over to the Minister of Justice and Security in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u281	So you decide to hold your motion now, Mr. Otten? For the record and for the Acts: is that about your motion with letter X or the letter Y? You hold the motion under letter X (35300-VI). That's up to you right now. So we're not going to vote on that next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u282	Then there are two motions which affect my portfolio, both of which are not addressed to me, but simply to your Chamber, namely Mr Backer's and Mrs Veldhoen's motions. I don't have to advise on that. Finally, the Veldhoen motion on new regulations in relation to the IND. On behalf of the Secretary of State, I would advise against this motion, because if it were adopted in the sense that no new regulation would be introduced in advance, it would also hinder any tasks that would result from the implementation of European legislation. And when it comes to the measure that comes directly from the coalition agreement, namely to bring legal aid back to what is in line with European law, which is required by European law, it is not desirable to suspend it. That's why I don't recommend the motion. Mr President, thank you for a nice debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u283	Thank you, Minister. I would like to take a look around to see if one of the Members wishes to speak. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u284	I propose that we vote next week on the motions tabled, subject to Mr Nicolaï's motion under the letter 'W', which has been held for up to four weeks. Or is it Y? We're gonna suspend for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-8.u285	I propose that we vote next week on the motions tabled, subject to Mr Nicolaï's motion under the letter 'Y', which has been held for up to four weeks, and subject to Mr Otten's motion under the letter 'X', which has been held indefinitely.
