ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u1	I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to deal with the questions as follows. I've got a short introduction and then I've got six cubes. That is a block on the compensation system, how it works and the questions that have been asked about it. There is a block about the cabinet response to the themes that played around Donner and the research. The third block deals with the use of nationality. The fourth block is about the declarations. The fifth block is about the transformation of the Tax Administration. The sixth block is a block of "other."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u3	It might be good to allow the Secretary of State to deal with these issues first. Members will then be given the opportunity to intervene. Mrs. Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr President, because we always make agreements whether or not you are allowed to ask a question, you are a strict chairman, but rightly so, of course, I would like to know where FSV, the blacklist, falls. Is that in "other"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u5	As far as I know, it's in block two.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u6	Good. Go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u7	Mr. Chairman. The fact that I am the one standing here today has everything to do with the extent of what went wrong with the childcare allowance. A large group of parents lost not only a lot of money, but also their trust in the government. Some of this group even lost their livelihood with profound and often irreversible consequences. Restoration of trust and justice to the duped parents were and are the reason for me to choose full surrender for the office I am now allowed to hold. There are several causes for what has gone so terribly wrong. The way things are going within the Tax Administration and Charges is an important factor, but the social and political pressure to tackle fraud with surcharges was also involved. Just like the regulation, which is downright harsh and based on an unnecessarily complicated system. We must learn from this as a government and as a political lesson. I share Mrs Leijten's view that your Chamber and investigative journalism have played an important role in getting the bottom line. I consider the report to the Public Prosecutor's Office of possible criminal offences, on which I spoke to your Chamber last week during Question Time, to be an absolute low point. The reliability of the government must always be beyond any kind of doubt. Everyone in the Netherlands must be able to rely on equal treatment in the same cases. It is therefore very important for the Public Prosecutor's Office to be able to carry out an in-depth investigation. We will do whatever it takes to give the public prosecutor the opportunity to do so. Your Chamber has also played an important role in the run-up to the declaration. Not only did I find the D.A.'s report an absolute low; so did my people, the hard-working, dedicated officials within the Tax Office and also at Fees. With them I work hard on improvement: doing justice to the damaged parents and restoring trust in the service. For example, I do this together with Pearl and Matt, who are personal contacts and understand from their role in the service how important careful communication with parents is. Like your room, I'd rather see results today than tomorrow. But it takes time to restore 15 years of policy and do justice to a large group of parents. Of course, we want every euro of the half billion that the cabinet makes available to compensate parents to achieve their goal. It also takes time to remove the hard aspects of the system of surcharges, to make services more human and to take the system fundamentally. On the basis of the firm advice of the Donner Commission, and the step we have taken as a cabinet to compensate another group of parents, we have a total of about 20,000 parents who are entitled to financial recovery and/or compensation. I can tell you that in July we will make the first payouts to the disabled parents. In the months that follow, we can increase that number rapidly. We aim to be the first to help those parents who have been hit hardest. Parents from the CAF 11 group.......................................................................................................................................................... I am also pleased that it has been possible to present the emergency law to your Chamber, with a view to the parents affected by the harshness of the regime from the year 2005. In doing so, we can jointly lay the legal basis for recovery and hopefully deal with the past once and for all. In addition to the financial recovery, my parents can expect realistic planning and certainly careful communication. This, too, will hopefully contribute to the restoration of confidence. Parents need to know what to expect as soon as possible. For this reason, the past few months behind the scenes have also worked hard to set up a crisis and recovery organisation and to draw up rules and design implementing processes that allow justice and tailor-made work. I would also like to mention regular contacts for parents, the setting up of an administrative advisory committee of very broad composition and a parental and child panel, which looks critically into and advises us asked and unsolicited. Through webinars and videos we also try to talk to the parents regularly about what we are doing in corona time. I do so as personally as possible, because I want to continue to talk to the parents about their experiences. I therefore attach particular importance to the involvement of the National Ombudsman. Together with Secretary of State Van Ark and several municipalities, we look at where and how we can best support parents in the practical and spiritual sense. The parents also have a right to learn from the past and understand what has happened, in order to learn from it for the future. Because we too have questions. Part of it is now in the district attorney's office, but we are also investigating what happened, for example around the documents supplied by parents that have disappeared. We continue to change leadership and supervision, from high to low, and professionalisation and cultural change in the service. The transformation into a Tax Administration and Fees, which we can all be proud of. The present system of supplements is, as has been said, unnecessarily complex and complicated. In the short term, the cabinet is working on improvements aimed at reducing errors, but also on concrete proposals for the reform of the surcharge system. I hope to be able to tell you more about this in the autumn. Together with your Chamber, I want to continue to work hard to restore confidence and correct what needs to be corrected. Then I'll move on to the first block, and that's about the compensation arrangements. In the cabinet response we have indicated that we want to divide the recovery of what has gone wrong for parents into a number of topics. In fact, we are dealing with three groups of parents. There are parents who are affected by the so-called institutional bias. This institutional bias applies to a large part of the parent groups that have been the subject of a CAF study, but it also applies outside. There is also institutional bias separate from CAF investigations. This is important, because these parents are also covered by the scheme set up for CAF 11. A second group of parents, a probably larger group, consists of parents affected by the hardness of the system. That was not an institutionalized fraud investigation, there was no question of anything going wrong in the service. Mr Nijboer made that distinction even though it was about the hardness of the scheme itself. For example, if you didn't have one receipt, you'd have to pay back a whole year. That is a second group of parents, for which we have a compensation scheme in our proposal. Then there is the group that was also called "the o/gs group." It runs a bit through these two groups, because parents have sometimes been the subject of a CAF study, but also an o/gs qualification is fully qualified as a set-up/greater debt debt, and this can also be combined with the hardness of the system. We also have an arrangement for this group. Because we said we're quitting o/gs. We are not claiming at the moment, and we are ensuring that where, after processing these parents' files, a residual debt would remain with the Tax Administration, payment will not be based on o/gs, but on payment according to carrying capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u8	And o/gs is ahead?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u9	Built-up/greater debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u10	I was curious to see how you're going to build up your speech. You were still trying to report that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u11	This was in response to the questions asked about the different arrangements. I've said something about that now. I'm going to ask the questions now. Someone asked about the compensation for parents who have been treated group-by-group bias. How does that work and is there also the possibility that parents will be compensated on the basis of individual bias? That's what I said, so it's possible. The process in which this is going on is that a review is being carried out by the Tax Administration/Applications, and then there is a committee of wise men watching with us whether this is being done properly. In addition, there is that group of parents who are compensated for the hardness of the scheme. There is also an assessment and another committee is looking into that assessment. Then I will go to Mr Snels' questions about the possibility of discussing the legislation in the near future. So that is what we are going to do, because if it is right, there will be a debate on this for next week. Then we talk about the different arrangements and then we talk about those groups of parents, and how it is enshrined in the law to ensure that compensation for those groups exists. We shall therefore be discussing two additional arrangements. For the parents who receive compensation, for example for the parents of the CAF 11 group, there is the scheme that, where more damage has been suffered than has been paid to them on a flat-rate basis, we can take an additional step by paying damages related to this case. And we will also talk about the so-called safety net clause, a provision that exists for the victims, for example, of the hardness of the system and the parents affected by that hardness. In this way, there is the possibility of anticipating any particular situations there. The reason for this is, in particular, that we wanted to prevent the scheme from being so close that we could not include new cases in any way if they were to occur, for example if the Personal Data Authority came to certain conclusions or if the FSV showed something similar. Mrs Leijten asked about the approach of intent/great debt. How does it work now? So we have stopped this policy of intent/great debt. This means that none of the parents will receive such a qualification and that neither will they have to repay any of the parents without payment. Those payment arrangements will apply from now on. In other words, if you have a debt with the Tax Office or with Supplements, you pay two years according to wealth and after two years the remaining debt is cancelled. How does this work in the context of our compensation scheme? There are many parents who have indeed received such a qualification and who have also been in trouble as a result. That is also why they are taken into account in the two schemes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u12	I think there will be a lot of questions about this part, but perhaps it would be useful if the Secretary of State would finish this first. Then you will have the floor, Mrs Leijten, on compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u13	A question has been asked about the scheme with the CAF 11-parents. The Donner report also states that this scheme should apply not only to the CAF 11 parents but to all parents who have become part of it in a group-by-group approach. We have taken that up in the cabinet response. We have added that we also want to make a special arrangement for additional damage. And we have said that the list that has been used, and is indicated in Donner's report, is used by us as the list to establish that bias. It consists of five criteria, in which intensive research, the collection of documents, the cessation without research, arguments and elements play a role in this. What about the burden of proof for parents? And how do parents qualify for the schemes? In part, we know the parents. We know which parents were part of a CAF investigation. We approach these parents ourselves, because of them we have data and addresses. So we can approach them ourselves. The data of parents affected by the hardness of the scheme are not stored in a file with us in any way. Then it is indeed necessary for parents to come forward. That is a complicated issue for parents, and I understand that very well, because I would like to help them as much as possible. So I also want these parents to be known to us. By the way, about 5,000 parents have already reported. To ensure that it is known to parents that this is the issue, we ask their municipalities, the childcare organisations and other institutions where they could be known to pass this on. We ask these organizations to ask the parents to come forward. In this way, we want to make it as clear as possible that these arrangements exist. Unfortunately, it is not possible for us to get out of our own files in advance exactly which parents are eligible. That is why we ask parents to report to us. Mr Van Weyenberg asks whether there are possibilities for greater compensation. Actually, that's what I've been telling you. It is therefore possible to provide greater compensation for parents if they are of the parents comparable to CAF 11 or have been part of a biased decision or treatment. There is therefore also the safety net system, which is in line with the hardness of the system. We're going to discuss that safety net clause in more detail next week. It also makes it possible to compensate parents otherwise. Moreover, in all cases, many parents have also indicated to me that they are not only looking for financial compensation, but also otherwise need help. It is also for that reason that I have contact with many municipalities, and in the coming time with much more, to see together how we can then help those parents. Questions have been asked about the size of the groups. In total, this is about 20,000 parents. Of course, the exact number of these is still dependent on the assessment to be carried out, but for the time being we are still assuming this size. This also means that a great deal of work will have to be done to assess these parents as closely as possible. I'm going to say a little more about that in a moment. Then I would like to turn to the questions that have been asked on the subject of dossiers, the parent files. A total of around 700 requests were made for a personal file, for parents. There are about 41 parents who have gotten that file by now. Of course that sounds like little and that is also relatively little. That has a lot to do with the fact that putting those files together is an enormous amount of work. We lost about 400 hours per file. We have many files to go through and we need to ensure that this information is properly ranked, in a way that also provides insight for the citizens concerned. We're gonna have to paint some of that information, too. That has everything to do with the fact that there is information in there that should not be visible to parents, of course, because it is not about them, but about others in those files. This is what we have done. We have contacted the National Ombudsman and asked him to look and think about a process in which we can help parents and answer the questions they have. Many parents are not looking for their complete file, but for information to get a picture of what happened to them. That is why I indicated with the Ombudsman that we are going to organise the process as follows. We're gonna call parents. We ask them exactly what information they need. On that basis, of course, we will also seek that information for them. If they still want a whole file, there is, of course, that possibility. But unfortunately that will take some time, because it is so incredibly much work and there are many parents who have asked for their file.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u14	Mrs Leijten would like to ask a question very quickly and very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u15	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'll come back to the arrangement in a minute. I think anyone who's been listening can't tie a rope to it anymore. So this is the hell of a swamp created on the basis of Donner's raving advice. But I would like to go into those files now, because parents have a lot of questions about that too. We already knew this answer, because we got it last night in response to parliamentary questions. But how is it possible that parents don't get a file, but they get a call that they've already been reviewed and that they fall into a certain category?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u16	Parents haven't been assessed yet. As part of the steps we are taking in the assessment, exactly what we have also indicated in the cabinet response has been done. We have looked at which of the CAF files has played a role in this institutional bias and which has not. We've made that distinction. That's what the parents get from us this week. In addition, we have already called some of them, who we already have in mind and who we are already in contact with, because we realize that the outcome is exciting for them and that it can be not only exciting, but also very intense at times. We felt it was important that this should not only be communicated by letter, but that they should also be called.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u17	This is not an answer to my question. I just can't reach it. I went to the IRS with those parents. Those parents had a lot of victims of a CAF investigation. If you read those files... Your shoes are falling out! What happened there! It says almost literally: we do not have to deal with the owner of the fraudulent childcare, because she is already bankrupt because the parents can no longer afford it. And all these parents are hearing now: you're not at all comparable to CAF. You've eaten dry bread for years, you can't give your kids anything, but you won't get any compensation from the state. This is going to be a really big problem!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u18	Just to make it very clear, here's what I'm gonna do. There is a distinction in the CAF studies. There are CAF studies in which group bias has been addressed and studies in which this has not been addressed. In cases where it has been discussed, parents are entitled to the compensation scheme as described in the Donner report. That means: you get back the money you were originally entitled to and you also get additional lump sum compensation. In the cabinet response we added the possibility to receive additional compensation if you can prove that you have suffered additional damage and that this damage is related to the childcare problems. That's one. Two. There are CAF files in which there has been no bias. It may be that they are files that, for example, were not at all about the childcare allowance. It may be that research has been carried out, but that research has not led to anything happening to the parents. It may also be that there has actually been fraud by a parent concerned. In that case, you are not eligible for the compensation scheme and therefore not for the additional compensation. But as I pointed out at the beginning, there is also the possibility that parents have been treated individually on the basis of bias. Then you will also be eligible for the same scheme that I was just talking about and which we call the compensation scheme. If this is not the case, if parental bias has not played a role but they have been affected by the hardness of the system, then these parents are eligible for a scheme in the context of that hardness. That means: you still get back the money you were entitled to, with interest, with reimbursement of the fines you paid, and so on, and so on, and so on. That group of parents will therefore receive a compensation from us as well. In addition, for parents subject to the hardness of the scheme, there is in very special cases the possibility to benefit from an additional scheme through a so-called safety net provision. I understand it's complex and it's complicated. But the basis of the difference lies in the bias that was at issue in some cases and the mistakes that have been made by us, the government, we therefore believe that the parents concerned are entitled not only to the amount they were entitled to, but also to additional compensation on the one hand and the hardness of the arrangements on the other. That's what hit his parents, too. In some cases, it was about very large sums. I know the parents involved, of course, and I know the amounts involved. But there was no bias or error on the part of the government. There was a very hard settlement, and we are now trying to restore it as best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u19	It's a lot of words, but at least it's not generous, and that's what the Secretary of State started with. Today it's about: are you generous, or are you letting people walk back into a bureaucratic swamp in which they have to prove it themselves? Donner's advice did not take into account the legality of intent/big debt, but did not consider whether parents had acted unlawfully and therefore biasedly outside the group approach. And that was a promise. Donner didn't look at it, but he advised on it. And the Secretary of State is doing that. This isn't complete. If these parents go to court and the Tax Office has no evidence to show why they've assumed "frauder," then the Tax Administration is getting wet. I wouldn't want those parents to have to do that. It is up to the Secretary of State to be wise today and to say that in the event of intent/great guilt it is necessary to examine whether there has been any legitimate action. Because we just have an internal note stating that there has to be evidence; you have to be able to show what you suspect people of. And that's just not in those files.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u20	It is a good thing that you indicated this, because apparently that was unclear. In the beginning of my piece I indicated that I am also doing research on the theme of intent/great debt. So this is separate from the fact that we are stopping that policy, that we are not going to continue with intent/great debt. There is now only the possibility, where necessary, to recover on the basis of a late payment that someone can have or on the basis of something that needs to be repaid. Built-up/greater debt is no longer available in the future. In the past, it has indeed happened. I realize that it is complex that is given to parents who qualify. They could be parents in CAF files, they could be parents in other files, but they did. It is not always clear why this has been done, why these parents have received this qualification. What I consider to be very important is that this should come to light, that it should become clear why it is, and that this should also play a role in the assessment of the parents' files. The fact that you received that qualification does indeed play a role for the parents in the handling of the files. This is true of the past; in future we will no longer be using this policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u21	I wish it were true, but it's just not true. Deception/greater debt: those files simply do not answer that. You say I turned it off. Yes, you had to. Last April, the Council of State ruled that the Tax Administration should not use it, because people who act in good faith but still make a mistake are disproportionately affected by it. The fact that it was not released until March is, in fact, already richly late. But Donner says literally: "We have not investigated any illegalities in the treatment of people outside the group approach." In his opinion, he assumed that everyone individually excluded from that risk selection had legal protection, which still needs to be investigated. And that's what he based his advice on. But they didn't have legal protection. They've been beaten together, left to die in the ditch, and we're not picking them up until now. But we do say: yes, maybe you weren't left for dead after all. This isn't generous. The Secretary of State must look at the legality outside the group approach. If the Secretary of State doesn't do that, then this is a sad, sad day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u22	Maybe a few things to say in response. Number one: I am not here on behalf of the Donner Committee. I stand here on behalf of the cabinet, which has made an arrangement, based on the Donner Committee. Part of what we have indicated is that we are indeed investigating intent or gross guilt. It is very important for me and for us too to know exactly how that went, not least for the parents, as I mentioned earlier. What exactly went wrong? I indicated in my introduction: we are going to recover and we are working on it. We're making sure parents get justice. But we don't have all the answers to all the questions yet, and this is one of them. We also do not have all the answers to the questions asked to the AP. We also do not have the answers to all the questions about whether documents have disappeared or not. That will all come to light in the near future. I sincerely hope so. I am, of course, also aware of the fact that this is happening, because it may also play an additional role in the assessment of these dossiers. But I don't want to wait for that. The cabinet is very keen to compensate the parents as soon as possible. And that is what we are doing on the basis of the arrangements that we ourselves have made, which are again based on the Donner report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u23	Mr President, I would like to make a point of order to you. We had asked for documents at the beginning. There's been one document.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u24	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u25	That is the document that was in 3.5 point. Now that's neatly readable. But we don't have the underlying documents. None of the decision lists came up. And the documents written by the Dg Tax Administration and submitted to the State Secretary are the three documents mentioned in reply 15 of the factual questions are not provided, because their content would have been provided to the Chamber. Then the Secretary of State has missed an article 68 discussion and I ask you to give the Constitution to the Secretary of State. So I ask the Secretary of State to deliver those documents to the Chamber within 15 minutes, because they are the subject of debate here. And if there aren't, I get the feeling we're gonna be playing some kind of detective again. So this is an order proposal. I want those pieces within 15 minutes and otherwise we'll just wait until those pieces are here and then we'll move on to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u26	I understand that there has been a letter stating that one document is available, but the rest is not yet available. But the Secretary of State knows that better than I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u27	Yeah, that's right. One document has been made available. It concerns the documents requested by Mr Omtzigt. They're about reports from management team meetings. We have already replied to questions from the Chamber on this matter that we can no longer find them either. We can't get those pieces out of the water anymore. The ADR has asked for this and we have been looking for it. We've done that several times. But those documents are no longer in our files or in our archives. So I can't make it available to you. I'd love to. Many of the management team reports we are dealing with, hundreds of them have indeed been made available. But the ones you're asking for aren't here anymore. The ADR has also indicated this in its report. And the last piece is about an official note. It has finally come to a concept in the official organisation. But it has not been completed and has not been used as such as part of the deliberations and has not gone to the Secretary of State either. As part of the fact that this is a personal policy concept, we have chosen not to share it with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u28	That's not a choice. That's not a choice! A personal policy concept? The DG Tax Administration conducts an internal investigation into what happened. This is dismissed as a personal policy view, which has remained a concept note and which is not provided. It should simply be provided to the Chamber under Rule 68. There is a Chamber motion, adopted 150 to 0, so I would ask you to forward it to the Chamber. The answer also contains a second note which has been presented to the Secretary of State, namely the report of a number of talks. It's a little overflowing. On the basis of the Constitution, I simply request that those two notes be delivered to the Chamber. I do not care what the government thinks about it in the next half hour, so that they can become part of the deliberations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u29	I gave the answer I gave. Some of the documents cannot be made available because we do not have them at our disposal. I gave you what you got. We assess the other documents as documents dealing with personal policy concepts. We do not make them available to the Chamber because otherwise it is not possible for my staff to share ideas, plans and messages with each other without them playing an immediate role in the public debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u30	Then I'll do it on the basis of the WOB, truly true as a Member of Parliament. This isn't an e-mail or anything. I'm not asking about the e-mails. This is a report from the Director-General. That's the highest boss in the IRS. He did months of research, interviewing employees. A report was written on that. This concept was consciously held and this is now seen as a personal policy concept? Come on! This is not a personal policy idea. The second is a piece that went to the Secretary of State. It's between the lines. Since it is not provided, I propose that this debate be suspended for a moment. I'll have a word with the other MPs. It can't be that after two and a half years of toiling on pieces again, I just can't get a piece that comes above the table. I need to be a goddamn journalist. By the way, that's a fine, honorable profession. But I need to be a journalist to control a government here. I can't take it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u31	I'm also looking at the Secretary of State if it might be possible to keep certain documents confidential... Yeah, I know how complicated that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u32	No, Mr. Chairman. They're allowed to make names black. I understand that there are a number of personal names in it. That's where I'm at. But if an investigation is being carried out, then we have to check it. The investigation was held here late last night under the radar of the Chamber. It's not an e-mail or a personal policy idea. It belongs to the highest director-general of the tax administration. We need to be able to control this, because we want to see what happened. The same answer says that a memo has been sent to the Secretary of State. It was official in any case, so that is not the case with the Secretary of State's whole apology. I understand you're looking for those other documents; we'll find out again. But those two documents can simply be provided to the Chamber so that we know what happened there. Do you know what kind of debates we had in the Chamber at that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u33	No one can hear you, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u34	Mrs Leijten said that if these parents do not deliver a piece, they are punishable and they have to pay tens of thousands of euros fine. But that was off the record.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u35	Yeah, now it's in the Acts. You made an order proposal to suspend. How long do you intend to suspend?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u36	Ten minutes, so we can get an answer from the Secretary of State on how to get that document.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u37	Then I will see if this proposal is supported. Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u38	Mr. Chairman. I certainly support that, because I would like to have a word with colleagues. Indeed, as Mr Omtzigt said, we have had a whole debate on Rule 68 and the obligation to inform the cabinet. We have also had a discussion about what personal policy concepts are. This is an investigation and a report based on interviews. That has nothing to do with this. This does not fall within the definition of personal policy concepts. It's just a piece that's important to us to check what happens in the service. This does not fall under personal policy considerations, so the Secretary of State must send this to the Chamber anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u39	I will see if everyone agrees with Mr Omtzigt's order proposal. Is everyone okay with that? Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u40	In itself, the Constitution is very clear. We're just entitled to it. I support Mr Omtzigt. A majority of the Chamber is asking for an explanation of this. I think there is a majority for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u41	Yeah, I just asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u42	The only procedural proposal left is to file a motion in the interim in order to enforce it with the Secretary of State. However, I think that if everyone speaks now, and there is probably a majority in favour of this, it should be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u43	That's what I'm asking. Only those who do not support it can say something. Does everyone therefore agree with Mr Omtzigt's proposal to suspend for ten minutes so that you can consult each other? Okay, then I'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u44	I'll give the Secretary of State the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u45	Thank you, Mr President. In response to Mr Omtzigt's requests, one thing was not entirely clear to me, because there had been a request. I didn't understand that. The first request concerned the document which is an internal administrative note, which was subsequently rejected internally by the administration. That's why that piece wasn't made public. As far as I am concerned, that is what I have just said. The other note you're talking about is about a conversation report. I would like to make that note available to your Chamber, but there are a few themes. We need to take a good look at the information in terms of names and persons. We therefore need to be able to monitor this very carefully. The other point is that we need to look closely at possible interference with the investigation that the D.A. is going to do. I cannot therefore make that note available to you immediately, but I am prepared to give it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u46	Thank you for getting all the documents, I suppose, that have gone in question 15 towards the Secretary of State on this relevant subject here. As far as that other piece is concerned, I will continue the discussion later, because I do not agree with it, but I do not want to stop the debate. However, I do not agree that a study carried out by the DG, which covers the whole process, can remain in the concept phase from the moment one is interviewed and cannot move forward. Anyway, I don't want to stop the debate. I'm waiting for the next piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u47	I think we're still confusing two documents. There is an official piece, made by a senior official, but stopped by an even higher official. We're just keeping that part in-house. That is an internal policy concept under consideration. The other piece is about conversations that have taken place and the conclusions from them. That is what we will make available after we have looked carefully at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u48	Thank you. I still don't agree with that first one. I will come back to that later. I assume that the latter applies to all the documents made available to the Secretary of State in that file. When I read that answer carefully, I do not know whether one or two documents have ended up with the Secretary of State. I'd like to have it. I understand that it takes some time to look through those pieces carefully, because there might just be names in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u49	In that context, I have the following point. The answer says: notes were provided to the previous State Secretary on 20 November and 2 December 2019. Your decision will see to it that we get those notes, won't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u50	Yeah, that'll take care of the notes that went to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u51	Then we can move on to the debate. I have on my list: Mr Omtzigt, Mr Snels, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Azarkan. I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u52	We're talking about people's files. Nine months ago, about 600 people asked for their files. My first question was: these people did so on the basis of Article 15 GDPR. You're entitled after three months. If you don't get it, you get a penalty. The government denies that these people are entitled to the GDPR or that they have requested it on the basis of the GDPR. However, I have seen a number of letters from these people. They even mentioned GDPR Article 15 in the application letter. That was an example letter from the Union for Taxpayers. Those people are either entitled or entitled to a periodic penalty payment. I would have liked to know if that's the case. But it goes one step further. It is not just a matter of the right to the file or to be bothered, but of the fact that, as a tax authority, how can you determine whether someone is entitled to compensation, or whether someone falls into one of the categories mentioned by Mrs Leijten? How can you determine that if you can't provide the file to the people? That seems to me... So there are 600 people, and they're all gonna get finalized when they don't have their own files. They can't go anywhere, can they? And how can they appeal to themselves? That is the crux of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u53	Maybe we should talk about the latter first. Indeed, it is not necessary that you have the complete file of someone, which we have given to those 41 parents, to decide on the child care allowance and/or the scheme for which one is eligible. That is because the files we have made available contain much more information. This is also about rent payments, about the child-related budget and also about other topics, such as "what was going on with my childcare organisation?', What some parents asked for, and all that information. So those complete files we made for the parents who asked for them, you don't need to make that assessment. Of course, we are looking for the elements that are needed for this. Of course, we are going to compile that file and we are going to do it together with the parents, because our contacts contact the parents and see what they have in their files to ensure that they together have the best possible basis for decision-making. That's one; so you don't need a full file to make a decision. Then there's the other point. You're right that the parents who ask for those files are entitled to that. We do not deny that at all, because it is true that you can request your information and we have given a number of parents all that information. The only point we are dealing with is that putting these files together will cost a great deal of work. Indeed, there have been some 700 parents who have asked that question, and we have been looking for a way in which we can help these parents as soon as possible, in addition to what we are naturally doing to ensure that they are also compensated, so that they get that financial compensation. That's how we can help these parents. That's why we call these parents, we contact them and we ask them what they're specifically looking for, because then we're gonna find that specific information for them, and we're gonna try to do the same. The first parents we called for this, and again, we do so under the supervision of the National Ombudsman, who have often also indicated that they are indeed looking for specific parts of the file. And we'll give it to you. We have also said that if a parent still wants the complete file, we are going to put it together, but we need more time for that. If you are talking about the relationship with the GDPR: the GDPR elements from those files are narrower than what we make available to the parents. So if we only act according to the GDPR, then it's just part of the file we have to give. Those are, of course, data that show that they're registered, and that sort of thing. But it is not that the GDPR obliges us to give those complete files completely and in every way. Apart from that, we do, but we've found a "I'd almost say" practical way to make sure the parents are served, that they get information. And I asked the National Ombudsman to look into it, because I think it is so important that we do not give the impression here that we do not want to give them, or that we do not want to provide them, or that we do not consider the information we need for the proper assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u54	Then parents are confronted with the fact that they were entitled to that GDPR information, while you are now saying that they did not ask for it on the basis of the GDPR. Yes, that is in the answers to last night's parliamentary questions, that of Mrs Leijten and me. So that's not based on Article 15. Now they have, which means that they should normally have a decision after one month, three months at the latest, and, if such a decision is negative, they should be entitled to the penalty payment towards the Tax Office. And if you nod yes, I see that you can't really avoid that. I hope you tell the parents that too, because they are entitled to this information. And secondly, I asked all this because a lot of parents in that CAF 11 case want their entire file, especially those 40 parents who have suffered more damage. But they do not have their whole file and now they have to go to the committee, which I will hear in a moment when it is set up and whether it is working, with their entire file, within a period of time. And that deadline has already expired, but their request for information has gone much longer. So how's this going, without complete files? It is also very important for them to have all the elements about the childcare institution, which has often been quite messed around, and then I express myself mildly. So how do we get people to that committee with their entire file and how does that committee work? And b: do these people now have the right to a decision and compensation if they have a question on the basis of the GDPR, because it is not provided within three months?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u55	Maybe I could go into that first piece. What we will do is to the parents, and especially to the parents, who bring out information from their files that is necessary for a proper assessment of what they are entitled to. We will certainly also, when it comes to, for example, additional compensation, perhaps look further into the files and look for that information. That is what we are doing for these parents in the context of dealing with the case and, as you rightly say, they are entitled to do, because we need to look at each other. This is also the work that our contacts are doing. That's one way. I would like to come back to you in the second term on the question of precisely zooming in on the GDPR, because I want to answer exactly: which parts of the dossier are or are not part of the GDPR? But let me just say one thing about it: I think, just like you, that parents are entitled to all this information and we would like to give it to them, but we also want to work here and make sure that the information that is now needed comes out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u56	Yes. I shall go to Mr Snels, then to Mr Van Weyenberg and then to Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u57	It is not yet clear to me how the distinction is made between the collective groups of CAF 11 and CAF-like matters and the individual bias. The Secretary of State says that we are also looking at individual bias and even then there may be compensation. But based on what criteria? Because the core of Donner is: there was a fraud investigation and there has been group action. That is the essence of the opinion. So how did you come from that group-by-group approach to individual assessment of whether there has been bias?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u58	Mr Donner gives a number of criteria for assessing this bias. A criterion for this is not only whether you were part of a group where intensive fraud investigations have been carried out, but also whether there has been any cessation without investigation, intensive questioning of documents over very long periods of time, making a decision without any supporting documents, etc. etc. These criteria are also included in the report. These are the criteria on which the assessment can be carried out. He says that you do not have to meet all these five criteria in order to arrive at the judgment of bias. So it doesn't necessarily have to be the case that you were also subject to a group-by-group fraud approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u59	I have two questions. Does this also apply to people who were not involved in a CAF investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u60	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u61	And the second question. I've been going over those criteria, too. Apart from the collective cessation and the collective treatment of people, you come very close to the hardness of the laws and regulations. The distinction between that one group, hardness of laws and regulations, that is to call for documents, small lack of evidence and then put it right. That is the hardness of the scheme. This is only about repair, but not about compensation. What's the difference between those two groups? If you've been treated individually biased, I think you're just in the hardness of the scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u62	It is true that we are making a clear distinction between them, because, in the case of the hardness of the system, it is a matter of course of fact of being affected by them. Documents have been requested and it has been decided that, based on the fact that you didn't have one receipt, which was simply part of the scheme, or hadn't signed one, you still had to pay back a whole year of childcare allowance. In the context of bias, however, that is most obvious in such a CAF 11 case, for example, you are talking about cases where specific research has been carried out on people without direct cause. For example, it was because their agency was cheating. That's where extensive research has been done. There's been a cease-fire without consultation. So it wasn't said "there's no receipt"; no, there wasn't even checked whether there was a receipt or not. There was no check on whether there was a right to childcare allowance or anything like that. That's been discussed, among other things, in those CAF cases. That is why people are part of that scheme. In the other case, of the hardness, it is a question of something that was not missing from the scheme at the time. That has also held up in a lot of cases in the courts. It didn't turn until October 2019, but until then that hardness was maintained. But that's the difference with biased action. It is true that the rules at the time were complied with. That led to a very hard decision for people and a very nasty decision for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u63	I still don't understand. I think that is important for all those parents who are watching and wondering whether or not they are entitled to compensation. That must be a larger group than the group of CAF 11 and CAF-like cases. That's why it's clear. But with all the others inside CAF and outside CAF, it's not clear. If you then look at Donner's criteria, such as asking out evidence, even over several years, zero tolerance if there were errors and imperfections or if there was anything missing from evidence... That happened to a lot of people without being part of a fraud investigation. That is all the hardness of the scheme. That's exactly why we already got the message from the Tax Administration in 2015 that it was going way too fast, that there were falling back and that this was way too hard. I do not see how the Secretary of State can cut with scissors that one group is entitled to compensation and the other is not. Does that then end up in the legislation? I can't judge it. How are the parents supposed to judge that? What about the lawyers who stand by them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u64	We'll talk about these laws next week. The exact nature of these different groups and the conditions under which one group is eligible and the other group is not eligible for compensation or for the hardness of the regulatory clause is also included. So perhaps it would be a good idea to discuss this further next week. But as far as we are concerned, there is a clear distinction to be made between the group that has been treated as biased and the group that has been affected by the hardness of the scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u65	That is why I have such difficulty with Donner's report and with what he has done, although I also admire it. He talks about institutional bias, which was a summation of factors throughout the decision-making process. But look at the criteria, such as number 5: rejecting or reducing the claim in case of the least or least irregularity in the documents. That's what happened to a lot of people. That doesn't even have anything to do with bias. This has happened to a lot of people, not only if the Tax Administration has acted biasedly. Then you're really just in the hardness of the arrangement. I think a lot of people are watching: do I get or do I not get compensation? And we don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u66	The point is as follows. We are indeed talking here about the distinction between biased action... In fact, that doesn't mean much more or less than that the government deliberately put people in a situation where they didn't get what they deserved. A lot of work has been done to detect fraud. There wasn't a good look at the pieces. All kinds of information have been requested and it was not necessary to request it. Extensive research has been done. Decisions were also taken before any investigation was carried out. The childcare allowance has been stopped in people without even checking whether there was a right to it, whether there were receipts, etc., etc. This has also happened group by group in the case of the CAF investigations. You were the subject of such an investigation because your childcare agency was, at least in our opinion, committing fraud. That's how it was in most cases. There the sum of these different criteria played a role. That's exactly what Donner says. It's not about the singular fact. It's not the only fact that you were investigated, for example. It was a combination of factors that played a role in this. In that sense, the scheme was expressly not acted on in accordance with the structure of the scheme. In the case of the hardness of the scheme, we did indeed act in accordance with the scheme. There was indeed done exactly what was in the scheme, for example the story I was just telling. There was a receipt missing, but there was no proportional recovery, so for example: you didn't have the receipt for December, but you had the rest of the vouchers and you just got the first eleven months. No, you had to pay it back all year. That's exactly what that arrangement said. So that is the hardness of the scheme. That really differs from the biased actions, where other things are at stake, and where we are going to investigate this, it is also possible that documents may have disappeared deliberately, where there may have been ethnic profiling, etcetera, etcetera. So there really is something else going on here than where we have just acted in accordance with the rule, which we all now say, Donner and we are a little wider than Donner: that should not have happened and we think that we should put it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u67	Maybe I should ask the question another way. My point is that this was the decision of the Council of State, and that is why we are going to look back at the legislation that the legislation itself was biased. The all-or-nothing approach contained in the laws and regulations was envisaged. We assumed that people might start cheating. That's why you had to be as hard as possible, and if there was anything of an imperfection, all recovered. There is already a bias in that. If you then make a distinction between people who are only covered by the hardness clause that we are about to introduce, and the actions of the Tax Administration, then there is a difference that I think is gradual. I do not see this sharp distinction between the tax administration that went wrong and the laws and regulations that were too harsh. So what is the distinction between the hardness clause and the biased action of the Tax Administration? Because those criteria are not too harsh.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u68	I think I've just made it very clear what the difference is. In one case, the government has behaved in a non-legal manner and there has been bias. In the other case, there was the implementation of a law. I very much agree with you that that law was not good, even more so, that it was super hard and also very hard to work out. However, as far as I am concerned, there is indeed a distinction between these two categories, which is without prejudice to this, and I would like to make it clear that in both cases parents may be very badly affected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u69	I'm looking for a sense in which different ways parents are treated. I understand the group, similar to CAF, group by group, that compensation scheme. Then there is a group of other CAF cases that are not now characterised as group-by-group too fast, biased. If I understand correctly, these people will then be assessed individually and, if that is the case, they will still be able to get into the compensation scheme. In the third group there is the possibility to do something in excess of the amounts we already have if there is any damage that goes on, in the impact on their marriage or selling their house.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u70	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u71	Then we have the group hardness of the arrangement. That's where the law was applied, but we think that's too hard with that all-or-nothing policy. My quest is what we're going to do as parents sitting in this corner, which, if it's right, will be decided during the next period, and instantly, from the personal data search or from the blacklists, which was something else underneath. So how do you deal with that group? Are they still going to the compensation scheme, or is the Secretary of State saying: I have set up a safety net clause that gives me room to add to it here too? It is primarily intended for "you suffered from the severity of the scheme, but this is so hard for me to do more." Can she also use this to increase the fee if there is more going on, e.g. ethnic profiling? Does that go down that route, or does the Secretary of State switch to what I just call the "Donner's Regulation"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u72	Since it concerns hypothetical cases, we have not yet given a ruling on them. However, as far as I am concerned, it is clear that if there are situations where this would have been the case, we must find a solution either along one route or along the other. In fact, I think that if I have been shown to be ethnically profiled, I should once again make a proposal to your Chamber on how we deal with it. The scheme offers two routes for this. That is the route of either compensation or safety net determination. Again, we're going to talk about it again next week. But that is what we will have to talk about, because I also think that this should be looked at again. But again, we haven't figured that out yet. Where it is, we need to talk about it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u73	We would have preferred that information from, for example, the authority, precisely because you want to do it in one go. However, I understand that the Secretary of State says: if we judge someone and we say 'you are not covered by the compensation scheme but by the 'hardness of the scheme' scheme, I am sorry, Mr President, for all that jargon, that person will get back the money he had to pay. But what we are still saying is that that does not in any way limit the possibility of doing something on top of it, regardless of its shape. People are entitled to this if it becomes apparent that either by blacklists or otherwise, there has indeed been bias and group action.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u74	I agree that we need to see what that fits into.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u75	In December we also stood here with Minister Hoekstra and even with the Prime Minister. At that time, the promise was actually made that people would receive their files in the short term. It was said that we are not making promises that we cannot deliver and we are going to ensure that this is dealt with in the short term. Now I understand from the answer that it is all a bit more complicated. That is why these files cannot simply be transferred. It appears to be thousands of documents distributed throughout the organization. I wonder how you can't submit those files, but then you can let Donner decide that 8,000 files do not qualify for that compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u76	Perhaps I could take up a few elements of your question. You mentioned the situation in December. Then all we had left was parents who had been part of a CAF investigation. This involves both the CAF 11 study and possibly other CAF studies. We have seen later that there is also that hardness of the scheme. That is why the scheme has been extended. Thus, more parents than parents in the CAF files may have been affected by the problems associated with the childcare allowance. We have just talked about these two different arrangements. So after December, the Donner Committee's investigation was further extended. In the cabinet response we prepared in March, we said that we want to do much more and that we also want to offer the parents who have been the subject of this biased investigation of ours a possibility of compensation. Which parts of your file do you need to actually assess whether you are eligible for compensation? You don't have to have the whole file on parents. That requires elements. Of course, we're gonna put it together with the parents. We are going to do everything we can to ensure that it comes to light, so that we can do parents justice and give them what they are entitled to, either in accordance with one scheme or in accordance with the other. Then the first selection Donner had asked us to make. I understand that sometimes it's really complicated for the parents, too. It's got complicated steps in it, so I'm trying to make it clear. Donner asked us to first look at the CAF files as a total. So the question is this: are there, in addition to the CAF 11 dossier, where it has been clearly demonstrated that this bias was there and where parents have now also been compensated, other CAF files that dealt with the same type of procedure and are there CAF files where that has not been the case? That selection is now made. If this is not the case, it is sometimes due to the fact that there was no childcare allowance. Sometimes it also has to do with the fact that in such a case, for example, no action has been taken towards parents at all. Then an investigation may have started and there may have been an investigation into an agency, but nothing else happened to the parents, which didn't cause these parents any problems. So on that basis, we were able to make that distinction. However, as some of you mentioned earlier, there is also the possibility that, apart from being subject to a CAF investigation, there are multiple parents in your CAF file who have not all been treated in the same way biased. So there may be a CAF file where maybe half of the parents are eligible for a scheme and the other parents are not. That variant also exists. The fact that it is so complex also means, of course, that we always have to look very carefully at those files.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u77	Is it clear to these parents on the basis of what criteria they fall into one group or another? Can they object to that? Will they have the time to appeal or object on the basis of their total file? How are you gonna take the people in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u78	What we are going to try is to communicate as openly, as well as clearly and as clearly as possible, and to indicate on the basis of which criteria decisions have been taken. Again, we do this not only from the Tax Administration/Applications, but together with independent committees, which we have watched. We think it is very important that a very careful assessment is made. Of course, these parents are entitled to know why a decision has been taken and on the basis of which criteria it has been made. In any case, we have said: before we enter a period of objection and appeal, we first sit down with the parents at the table to pick things up and understand what is going on. We will then do the re-evaluation, if necessary, before we actually enter that appeal and objection procedure. We want to prevent parents from having to go to court to get them right. I think it is incredibly important that we look very closely at these files together with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u79	If I'm right, 40 parents have already objected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u80	That's about people from the CAF 11 file. People have already received money in December. Further calculations were then made and some of them received a further sum at the end of April. They were given their final decision. Those parents are still covered by the scheme in force in December. I realize that it is extra complex, but the arrangement in force in December is not the same as it is today. So we asked these parents to indicate: if you do not agree, you must of course report to us; then we will look again. But in December we did not have the arrangement we now have in our cabinet response, namely that you have the possibility of additional compensation if you can show that this is linked to the problems of childcare allowances. So the CAF files haven't been completed in every way. Parents have simply received a sum and they have also received a final decision, but with those who are in those files, we are also going to take a step further if they so wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u81	Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, then Mrs Lodders and then Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u82	I hear the Minister say that we look together as openly, as well as transparently as possible with the parents to see elements in their file, the CAF file or any other file, and then see what category they fall into and what they are entitled to, to do justice to the parents. Now it's true that parents who already had a contact have been called. We have heard that tomorrow thousands of parents will receive a letter stating which category they fall into. On what basis was that decision made?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u83	Exactly what I just indicated to Mr Azarkan: based on the first qualification, or the first classification that we have been asked to make with regard to all CAF files. Which CAF files are subject to group bias and in which case is this not the case? That is the first step we have taken. We're going to inform the parents about that. We know that it is quite hard for parents to get off our mail, especially if that mail means: your file is not a group bias. For a lot of people, that's very difficult. In fact, I've had some parents on the phone about that. They have made it very clear that this is the case. That's why we chose to call people in advance, so they know that letter is coming. I also recorded a video that I put on Twitter to inform them about. That is why we have done so in this way, but that is based on that very first step in the assessment of the CAF files, which is to make a distinction between files in which group-by-group bias played a role and files in which it did not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u84	Yeah, but it's not with the parents, is it? That's based on a first selection. That whole file has yet to be compiled! It is very strange that these parents are now suddenly confronted with a phone call or with a letter, in which they are told in which category they fall, that they do not fall within that compensation scheme. I can tell you that those parents, who were sitting here in the public gallery during a lot of debates, including one of the parents I was talking about in my contribution, are really going through hell. They're incredibly sad, and then they get one of those phone calls from the IRS. From: "Well, we've looked at it, first selection, you're out of the scheme." That's not right, is it? Surely all these files must first be completed and communicated to parents in full transparency?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u85	Well, we're completely transparent and we choose to compensate them, too. Just two things. Number one, I know with you how serious it is for those parents and how hard it is for them. That is why I think it is important that it is very clear what the step we have now taken is. The step we have taken is exactly what we have indicated that we would do. We had already announced this in webinars with parents. It is important that it does not say in that letter that they do not receive compensation in the sense of a scheme or compensation or otherwise. It merely states that in their CAF file there is no mention that they are part of that group-by-group biased treatment, and that, if they do not agree with that, they can, of course, discuss it with us. Mr President, it is sometimes a bit difficult to talk, with...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u86	Yes, it is a bit annoying that everything is being called in between from the room. The room is noisy anyway, so please bear that in mind. What do you say outside the microphone, Mr. Ommzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u87	One and a half meters doesn't work for...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u88	I'm aware of that. But what I wanted to say is that these parents have not been told that they are not eligible for an arrangement. They have been told that their CAF file does not fall within the category of group bias, that on that basis they are not covered by the compensation scheme either, but that they can use the hardness of the system and so on and so forth. But that is before their file has been reviewed, because in this case it was only about whether or not they were subject to group bias.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u89	So we are talking about the hardness of the system, and we have already discussed it very extensively. That legal protection is not open to these parents, because that is exactly what it is: they are completely out of control. That legal protection... They are not eligible for debt relief, for debt restructuring. All these parents are now totally trapped.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u90	The fact that parents are trapped is very clear to me and I have already indicated that I am in the process of looking at it together with municipalities and so on and so on. But in all the decisions that are taken here and all the decisions that we submit to committees, all these parents have all the legal protection. They can call us at first and ask for a re-evaluation. There's objection, appeal, there's everything. But I have also indicated that I think it is so important that we do not get into that situation and that we should also consult them on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u91	I'm sorry, but you're easily ignoring all these problems. People have to beg for a re-evaluation. They have to beg to get some more steps taken in their legal protection. Those people are totally grounded, both mentally and financially. They need help, and the Secretary of State isn't gonna make it through a webinar or a phone call. Those people really need to be taken into account in their files. That dossier must be completed and they must be given the rights they deserve, because they are not a fraud. And as far as the hardness of the system is concerned, no one can ever have meant that innocent people are going to be completely destroyed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u92	But I also agree with you 100%. You're talking about a situation that has arisen... In fact, one of the most important reasons why I'm here is because things got so out of hand, that things went so wrong and that parents are in so much trouble. I've spoken to dozens of parents, I know how serious it is, and I'm also extremely motivated to deal with this. But you must not say that these parents will have no legal protection from now on. That's not true, because they have legal protection. All of this has been included in our arrangement. And again, we're gonna talk about it extensively next week. It is also our express wish to do this together with those parents, because I very much want them not only to be done justice, but also to have confidence in that government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u93	Just came by the parents of the CAF 11 case. I assume that the Secretary of State will return to them separately. They may have had a final decision, but there are also a few problems with them. I'd like to go on for the last hour and a half. The Secretary of State has begun to state that these people can be classified into three categories and that the distinction has actually been made: you fall into category 1, you fall into category 2 or you fall into category 3. Let me say it in my own words; I hope that everyone will understand. It would be very helpful if the Chamber, preferably before Friday, would receive a flowchart. I think that would help not only me, but all the parents as well. In that flowchart, it should just be explained clip-and-ready what happens, for example, when you are in box 1. Then how did we lead your file to the end? And if it turns out that you may not have a right to something, to what extent can you possibly use category 2 or category 3? What about the evidence? How can parents who have an incomplete file be assured that their information is being evaluated? I actually have the following very specific question that I asked in my speech: does the Secretary of State want to make such a flowchart? Because we've been here for an hour and a half trying to convince each other that it's all right, but with all due respect to the parents who are listening, I say: they really don't understand anything about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u94	I think that's a very good idea. This is indeed linked to the law that we are going to discuss next week. Then we can have a very sharp relationship with each other about how it works with those categories, regulations and so on. For I do my best to explain it in the most understandable way possible, but I agree with you: it is indeed incredibly complex.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u95	Thank you very much for this commitment. I hope that we can have this by Friday at the latest, so that we can also use it in the input on the emergency legislation before us. We are talking about compensation, and we are talking about a safety net clause. That is what I hope to see in that schedule. Maybe some things haven't worked out yet, but I really want to see it very visually. People who are perhaps a bit less educated lyrically should really be able to see it. That would help us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u96	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u97	Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u98	I've been a spokesperson for several years about the misery in Groningen. In 2012 there was an earthquake. I actually recognize a lot from there today. There are different groups and different procedures, one is entitled to this and the other is entitled to that, everyone has to be done justice and hard work is being done, but it continues. I said in my term that I find it unacceptable that it should take until 2021 to do justice to anyone from any group. Can the Secretary of State promise to compensate everyone who has been wronged here in a few months?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u99	I can't. However, I indicated that we will start paying out to the first parents in July. We are doing this on the basis of the work that we are going to do in the coming months, including with them. I'm going to do everything I can to deal with all the files as soon as possible. But it must also be done carefully and it is indeed very complex per parent. It's not like all parents are entitled to exactly the same thing. There are complex dossiers, it's about several years, it's about very different types of amounts, it's about a lot of different situations. If we want to do it legally and do it right, and we want to do it righteously, and on the other hand we also want to ensure that the parents are well involved and that they understand it well, then we need time for that. I say again: the first amounts will be paid out in July, but we will really need more. I told you, it's about 20,000 parents. An incredible amount of people have to work on this. We've set up an organization of about 500 people to work on this. It is indeed a lot of work. I also think it is important that it should be very clear to the parents when it is their turn. A question has also been asked about this in one of the contributions; I'm bumping through the cubes a little bit, I must say. In order to make it very clear when who is next, it is not only necessary that we make clear which files they are and how many have come in, but also who can be dealt with by us at what time. In this context, it is very explicit that the people most affected should be the first to be helped. This is partly about, for example, the amount of the amounts, as has already been said. But it is also, for example, about whether someone is still in debt at the moment and is very much in financial trouble, because it is probably more important to help someone. But there may also be other elements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u100	These are all very recognizable arguments. In Groningen, the houses with the greatest damage must also be strengthened first. But this approach to the rule of law, which is about procedures and does not want to create precedents, it all has to be neat and every case is complex. The lives of the people and their children, who grow up, do not stand still. My question to the Secretary of State is to make that factor of time much more binding, including for the cabinet itself. I'm just asking her not to accept that that solution is taking so long. We are now another year after the apologies of Secretary of State Snel, who would arrange everything for parents as soon as possible, and only a few parents have been compensated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u101	I agree with you more than anything. I have also said in my contribution that I think that speed is very relevant. But again, it is also about care and about the fact that there are a lot of dossiers involved. Perhaps it reassures you that some of the people who are or have been very involved in Groningen's file are on our administrative advisory committee, in order to avoid that, so that we do not have to deal with any problems that might have arisen there. That therefore helps us to make the right assessments, including in terms of the arrangements, in terms of pace and in terms of communication with affected people. So we're working very hard on that. Again, I would point out that we want to make a very tight schedule and that we also want to share it with the parents. I suggest that we also report very regularly to your Chamber on how many cases we have, which have been dealt with, how fast that is going and what is going on and so on. I am, like you, very impatient to ensure that this goes as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u102	In Groningen, the word was "beautiful." "We're going to compensate everyone generously." And there is no Groninger who thinks he has been treated generously. Here we run the same risk with "careful." I really believe that the Secretary of State is trying to do it carefully and fairly. But if, in the end, none of those parents feel right, their lives are broken and they're in uncertainty about what's going to happen for years, then we didn't succeed. I really believe that politics is obliged to impose a deadline now in order to find a proper solution for each individual case. That is to be measured by the question of whether people think that their right has been done. I'm asking the Secretary of State to go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u103	I think Mr. Nijboer also knows that these parents have so incredibly lost faith in the government. I want to avoid giving these parents a deadline that is not based on any substance or which is not feasible or based on nothing. That gives them an idea that something is going to happen, and that deadline may not be feasible. So I do not think that is a sensible idea at the moment, since I do not yet know exactly how many files there are, nor exactly how long we take to assess a dossier, together with that parent. I do not think it is wise to lay down some sort of planning already, which I do not know whether or not I can make it. If there's one thing we shouldn't do to these parents, it's promise that we can't deliver. But I agree with you that it is very important to share it, including with those parents, as soon as we have more insight into it. I also very much agree with you that we should treat the most affected parents first and that we should not delay making files extra beautiful. We have to do this, and we are already doing it very hard at work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u104	Finally. I'm not asking the Secretary of State to make promises she can't keep. Then you end up in the ditch from the shore; no one was helped with that. However, I do not think that the approach is right if the outcome is that we have not compensated people until 2021, as is now foreseen................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Well, then you'd better do it differently. I therefore believe that the cabinet should not accept that it is taking so long. Parents can't wait that long.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u105	No, Mr. Snels, first Mr. Edgar Mulder. Then it's your turn. Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u106	In advance, I have heard the Secretary of State say two or three times that the CAF 11 case has been closed. That's not true. Around 20% of the people concerned have objected, so that is still ongoing. That's not finished. What is even more important or equally important is the following. The Secretary of State talks in one sense about restoring trust and being careful, but already labels thousands of people without having access to the file. And I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u107	Maybe we should talk about the CAF case. I don't think I said that the CAF 11 case is complete. There's been compensation. All the people who were part of that CAF 11 case received financial compensation as early as December. A number of parents have objected to this. Those things are still going on. My point was that compensation has already been given to people in this case. I referred to the initial assessment of whether there was a group-by-group examination of the dossiers. That is a step we have taken on the basis of the Donner Committee's opinion. That is not yet under discussion at file level. It is not yet a question of whether parents receive compensation or not, it is a question of whether you belong to the group of parents who have been subject to a group-by-group biased treatment. In other words, is the CAF file you're in next to the CAF 11 file, there are several CAF files, which are group-by-group bias? That is the distinction that has now been made. For that, we have not all had to assess the individual dossiers. We did look into what happened in those CAF cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u108	Quite literally, the Secretary of State says: we did not have to assess all the dossiers in substance...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u109	Not yet. Of course, we will, because we have to work with these people to determine what compensation they will get.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u110	But if you don't look in a file, you can't label it either. Where things went wrong at first, which is why we've been standing here for years, is precisely that people are labeled because they were in a group somewhere, at a certain agency. No individual assessment has been made. I hear we're doing the same thing again. I don't understand why you can't explain that in a few words. We're talking about it for an hour and a half. If we do not understand it, then the rest of the Netherlands has a problem with it. It is your job to explain in a few sentences why what you are doing is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u111	That's a very broad sentence. It is now specifically about the letters that will fall on people's mats this week. These are parents who have been subject to a CAF investigation, sometimes without even noticing or ever knowing. In the context of these fraud investigations, offices were looked at. In some cases, it has been concluded that not much was actually going on or that nothing was going on and nothing else happened to the individual files of the parents who joined that office. These are the parents we have indicated "you have not been part of a group-by-group biased approach that you have suffered or noticed." And that's exactly the difference we're making. There are parents where that is the case and there are parents where that is not the case. And that's what we're going to report to the parents in that letter. We also indicate, of course, that they should contact us if they do not agree, because then we have to discuss what is going on with each other. Is there any additional information that makes them think it is? We also indicate in that letter that they may be eligible for, for example, the hardness of the scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u112	But despite the fact that you have released EUR 110 million to invest in research and despite the fact that you have put 500 extra people to work, who should assess 40 dossiers each, you continue to insist that it is good not to do so and simply to label them in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u113	No, it's not good at all to... For the sake of clarity, this 110 million is not for research, but it is for the organization that is going to ensure that all parents, in total, are examined and viewed. On this basis, decisions are also taken on compensation. Once again, we do so that each of them gets a personal contact. But the first step that we had to take, I understand very well that that is complicated in that whole process flow and we are going to do that too.. was about the question in which CAF files there was such bias. In CAF 11 that was clearly the case; in some others it was not. We will ensure that more information is provided on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u114	Mr. Snels, there you are again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u115	Mr President, I have now given up the hope that today we will be able to clarify the distinction between the different groups. So that has to be in the legal process. A brief question on what Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen said about communication and all those letters. We know that didn't go well in the past either. We also know that the Secretary of State is working hard on it and also working with the municipalities. Now I, and I think other MPs, received an e-mail from the debt relief association. They're looking at how the IRS is now communicating with part of their clients. There will be a huge overlap between the people in the debt relief and the affected parents. They're offering their help. Would the Secretary of State undertake to contact this debt relief association and to involve them in the way people are helped?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u116	Sure, because we have already had contact with them, for example about two questions. If parents receive compensation, this can have an impact on how they continue to provide debt relief and the debts that are still in it. Together with municipalities, I want to look very closely at what is happening. Again, we'll get back to that in that law next week. You want to prevent someone who is about to be compensated or who receives financial compensation from us, from losing their right to allowances in one way or another or being taxed for property. That's what our law provides for. And we are also talking to the association of debt relief workers to see how we can make it work properly. By the way, we do this again with a number of municipalities involved, to see how we put it together properly. Forerunners are Tilburg, Rotterdam and Amsterdam. So I'd love to, because they play an important role in helping their clients. With their clients also plays that not only the Tax Administration or Fees is part of the package of their debts. That could be others, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u117	You had divided your speech very neatly into parts, but by the interruptions...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u118	Yeah, I'm gonna keep going. I would have stayed with the piece on the compensation scheme itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u119	But there's been a lot of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u120	Yeah, I think I've already had some of those. I'll walk you through it. We have said how it works if people do not settle for the level of their compensation. The first is helping the most poignant groups; I have also said something about this. We think it's important to do that as soon as possible. I see another question here that is open, across the border of €1,500 a year. Donner's research, or rather Donner's opinion, suggests that parents should be eligible for recovery if they have had to pay back an amount of €10,000 per year or if that amount has been recovered. We've lowered that line. We have thus increased the group that is eligible for this. The main reason for this is that we believe that there is a very large group of parents who are between €10,000 and €1,500 recovery per year and who would otherwise not be eligible for the scheme. You ask what this means for the execution. The element of these people is already in our calculation of the 20,000 parents eligible. This means they'll be taken too. This means that they have also been taken into account in the financial calculation that we have made, half a billion euros of compensation, and in that provisional, very crude planning that we will be doing so this year and also part of next year. With regard to communication, we are going to try to find many forms of communication, because we find it incredibly important that we approach parents as well and as personally as possible. I already told you. Parents are given personal business managers, who are already working. Some of them are already at work. I also had conversations with parents with them to give as many parents as possible personal attention. But it won't be easy, because a lot of parents really lost faith in the government and in us. There will therefore have to be very careful talk and surgery. We are trying to do this in the best possible way. Of course, we will continue to steer on that. Last but not least, we have set up the parent panel, the chairman of which is Arre Zuurmond, the Ombudsman of Amsterdam and the Amsterdam region, to help us do the best we can with communication with parents. We think that is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u121	It's about the point of the €10,000/€1,500. The Secretary of State has indicated that the cabinet has decided to lower that border, so that the group will grow. That line supports my group. But the group gets a lot bigger. My question was: to what extent can the Secretary of State make a distinction, bringing forward the most poignant cases? With a larger group, we need a longer period of time to assess all the files. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look for an opportunity to perhaps put some divisions between them, so that precisely those poignant cases stand in front of the queue to be helped? How's she gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u122	That is what we are doing, because in principle we are working on the basis that we want to help those who have applied first. But we also want to ensure that the most affected people are the first to be dealt with. For example, the level of outstanding debt can play. It can also be said that there is something personal that makes someone very eager to be helped earlier. We have seen very nasty situations, so we would really like to treat these parents a little earlier. So that's what we're gonna do. I'm not going to say exactly what this all works on, because that's what I find so unhuman. Above all, we want to ensure that people who are so affected can be treated as quickly as possible. For example, the amount or amount of what they have ever paid will play an important role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u123	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u124	Did you talk to parents yourself? Yeah, I do, and I'm gonna keep doing that until this file is resolved. First of all, we are talking about these poignant cases; that is what I have been talking about. The timing. Mr Bruins asks whether we should adopt the opinions of the Council of State. That's what we're gonna do. Then I am ready for the second block, but perhaps some of it has already been dealt with. So I'm going to browse through that as well. The second block is about Donner and the ADR.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u125	Mr Edgar Mulder has a question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u126	Could it be that I have not heard an answer to the questions about the host parents' agencies and their contacts with them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u127	That's right, but I think they're in the cup of "other." I would also like to answer that very quickly, because I do not have contact with host parents at the moment. It is, of course, the case that we have contact with them from our organisation. The chairman of the interbranch association of childcare is a member of our administrative advisory committee, to help us from that perspective. So there are all kinds of contacts with the childcare organisations. We would also very much like to use them to ensure that we can find the parents who, for example, are entitled to compensation. I think that many of the questions have been raised here, for example about the category of the Donner Committee and the set-up/great debt. We've just spoken more about that. We have said that we are taking that into account in our assessment. Mrs Leijten also asked why Donner looked at political responsibility. Several questions have been asked about this. I have already indicated the following in the answer to Parliament's questions. These questions were, for example, about the note found within the Ministry of Finance, which was by the then Secretary of State. That note was about how it could have been known that there were problems with the scheme, but nothing was done about it. In fact, the Donner Committee did not look at that. We have said that we, in particular the Secretary of State for Social Affairs, are going to carry out further research into the following. This is an examination of whether further documentation can be found showing when the exchange between these two ministries has been precise about the problems with the scheme and whether anything should be done about it, or whether the scheme should be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u128	I see you, I see Mrs Leijten, but I would like to suggest that the Secretary of State closes the matter first. Mrs Leijten and Mr Van Weyenberg will then have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u129	Then there is the question of why the Donner Commission did not look at the blacklist, which has been mentioned here. This is specifically about the fraud system, the FSV. We will come up with further research on this. As you know, the operation of the FSV is well known to us, but not the details we would like to know. We sent a letter about that yesterday. The Donner Committee has been informed that such a system exists. It is, of course, a question of what it meant to parents if they were included in that system. We are going to investigate that further. Of course, it's not just about whether you were registered in it. We have already indicated that the registration in the FSV at least did not comply with the GDPR rules, but it is also about what that meant in individual cases. We're doing some more research on that. Did that mean that you were being looked at differently, or wasn't that related? It is clear that in some cases parents have been treated biased, but this does not always have to be linked to the registration in the FSV. We would like to make a sharp distinction in that regard. We come in two steps with the investigation we're doing. Yesterday, we sent you a letter about this. At first we look at the FSV itself. We are also looking at any FSV-like systems that might be available within the Tax Administration. We're going to work to clarify how that worked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u130	Don't look at Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u131	Okay, I'm just gonna keep going. I'm trying to be polite, but I think I just need to keep going. When will other parents hear if they get compensation? We have already discussed this planning further. Then I come to the facts of the ADR. Mr Omtzig asked whether the Chamber had received anything other than the ADR. That's not true. You've been given the same overview. Something in the print only happened to a kind of column that has shifted, but in fact the same information you received also went to the ADR. Then there was the question about the ADR and the documents. That was the question of whether the ADR has been fully cooperated. Well, they got it. Everyone they've asked to hear has also been heard. All the pieces they requested were also made available as far as we could find them. You are asking for some of these documents, including this morning, and that is about the documents of the ADR, and that information has therefore been made available to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u132	Nor do I look at Mr Omtzigt - unless you are ready, because I will go first to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u133	I understand now, I'm sorry. I'm going on. Then I go to the third block, which is about the use of second nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u134	I shall go first to Mrs Leijten and then to Mr Omtzigt, because that was about the previous point. Oh, yes, Mr Van Weyenberg, and then Mr Omtzigt. Now Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u135	Mr. Chairman. Has the Donner Commission been informed that the FSV provided for an alert for persons found guilty of fraud? This touches on that discussion of intent and gross guilt. So you can see what evidence the Tax Office has listed for Mrs. X and Family Y. And if that evidence isn't there, then you can just reverse the arrangement. And do you know what the advantage of that is? That's faster, that's less expensive and parents are just faster out of trouble, and you don't make a wrong distinction between a group-by-group approach and an individual approach anymore. I would still like the Secretary of State to take this into account, however, with regard to the reversal of the burden of proof.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u136	Let's talk about the subject of FSV. It may be, or there are citizens in the FSV, parents, who say that there has been fraud. That could be a signal, which could be based on research. What it's about, and that's exactly what we're doing further research on, is that the fact that you're listed in it means that you've actually been treated that way. 'Cause that's not one-on-one proven. If there is a problem, and that is what I have also indicated to you from parents who have been given the qualification blame, then we are going to investigate on the basis of what happened. This is done in the context of the assessment of their file. Because at the time that was at issue, that meant that parents could indeed not get a personal payment arrangement, and that they were therefore also supposed to repay very large amounts at once, which most of them could not and therefore otherwise have gotten into trouble. The core of the story is that we were just talking about being investigating whether there's a relationship with that FSV system. But, I think, more important in the handling of the dossiers, and that is what you are talking about, in my view, is the question of how these parents could have obtained this qualification, and whether that was right or not, especially to ensure that, if not right, they are also eligible for the compensation we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u137	I asked about the reversal. If there is no evidence at the Tax Office, and it was apparently not the form sent, then it was considered under that intent/great guilt that someone was negligent. The Council of State has said that it is not allowed to do so. Look, when I say "I have six kids" and I only have two... Yeah, well, I guess I'm screwing around. Then you keep that as a tax authority standing in court, too, to throw me away as a fraud. But all these people have no idea what she's being blamed for. However, we are looking at that set-up/great debt, which I think is already a step forward. But do they still have to prove in the investigation that they were entitled to the childcare allowance? That they did have the kids at the shelter, which many can't? Or should we turn it around, so I asked the Secretary of State. And if the Tax Administration doesn't have anything like "sir or ma'am doesn't have any right," then the Tax Administration should simply go ahead with compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u138	What will happen in case there is a parent reporting to us... We now only know the category of parents who set up/great debts and who still have an open debt. We know them by name and by name, we will also contact them ourselves. But there are also parents who have had this qualification and are no longer in debt. What matters is that these may also be parents affected by the problems with the childcare allowance. With them we are going to look at the dossier and with them we are going to assess precisely whether they are eligible for compensation on the one hand or for compensation under the hardness of the scheme. That is what we are going to do. We are going to see with them whether that has been wrong, because that is of course a factor that has made them suddenly have to repay large sums of money that they could not repay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u139	Okay. Then Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u140	I can't get the answer. Donner is on the line of the swamp in which parents have to prove. I'll turn it around. If the tax authorities can't say "we suspected you of a pot farm" or "we suspected you of something else"... for then parents can also say "that's not true," "that was my brother" or "that was the previous resident of the house, so I can't be charged with that." It's all possible. Because those are all those signals that were in the Fraud Signaling Provision. If that is not clear, if the Tax Administration cannot see what they are accused of, then they will simply be eligible for compensation and then these parents will not go through all kinds of evidence again. The Secretary of State doesn't commit to this. I am simply tabling a motion on this because I have other questions about the FSV, about that note last night and about the tender. It doesn't charm me. We had said: not again those old consultants who have been at the IRS for years, looking in that kitchen and never seen anything of possible criminal offences. And then it goes again that KPMG is doing an investigation with the "you ask, we run" consultants there, and I find that worthless. One promise I want from the Secretary of State, because it's all in place already: all the parts are included in the investigation, so is EHI and also the new breeding room? They're all in those systems, aren't they? We're not going to investigate another part of the Tax Department for false fraud systems, are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u141	I believe that I can reassure Mrs Leijten in this area, because what we want to achieve is that we not only understand the functioning and consequences of FSV, so not only in the functioning of the system, but also in what it has meant for taxpayers or parents. It's about the whole IRS, so it's not just about Supplements. That is why we want to do so for all systems that are potentially similar. We just want to make sure that we have a very clear understanding of that. As you know, we stopped FSV. It's not being used right now. It's in a safe. Nothing can happen to that anymore. But we don't know if there are any similar systems at the moment. It is precisely the speed and the questions you have asked about this that make us say: we cut it up. First, we're gonna make sure everything that's not fluffy is closed. We'll look into that and shut it down. For that we use the cloak we have, because it ensures speed. In addition, however, we are going to carry out a larger investigation, and we are also going to place this more broadly on the market at your request. And there are all the components of all the systems that are FSV-like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u142	A little earlier, the Secretary of State mentioned the search for Social Affairs. She was talking about a documentary investigation. I have asked a number of more precise questions and I am also looking for a very precise answer. I really want to make it very clear here what happened. Is it an independent and audited investigation? Is it available to the Chamber before 1 September? Is it not just about documents, but is it also being discussed with people to get a clear picture of how things have gone in the Ministry of Social Affairs and between Finance and Social Affairs? Then we'll know exactly what happened and how this signal went down before September 1st. Because also in the facts the exchange of signals with SZW occurs a few times. I repeat: if we had intervened then we would have saved five years of misery.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u143	In line with what Mr Van Weyenberg wants, my colleague Van Ark has announced that we are going to investigate this carefully. She is also going to look closely at whether there are documents at the Ministry of Social Affairs that give a little more insight into how that has been done, both in the official discussions between ministries and within ministries, and also in what has become known for the political summit. So I can promise him that what he's asking here is going to happen. We're gonna do that. It is also intended that this will happen as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u144	Thank you for that commitment. I hear the Secretary of State again in the answer only talking about documents. So it's also about all the conversations, all the exchanges. I want a very precise picture of that, just like the Audit Service did research at the IRS. That's where people were talking to. And just for the record, I'm not looking to hang someone here. I just want to know what happened, so I can learn lessons that way. I'd really like to have this here in the Chamber before 1 September. The Secretary of State says "as soon as possible." I'm gonna ask her to see if we can get some clarity on the 1st of September. That seems like a realistic timetable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u145	I'm gonna take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u146	Mr Omtzigt and then Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u147	A couple of points. Thank you for the commitment to Mrs Lodders on a flowchart. That's gonna help everybody. I'm assuming that that flowchart will include when people get their files and what happens when we know if people are in FSV. 'Cause if they're set up/greater, they have to go back to the starting position. You'll see. This is going to be a gooseboard with "go back to square one." That's the risk we're taking. That's not wanted for anyone here. That's not a desirable outcome. But if it turns out that the FSV says that there is no reason for intent/great debt... By the way, that FSV system was cleaned twice two days before it was stopped, i.e.: a lot has been removed from it. I'm really curious what we're all gonna find out. Yeah, it's all in that letter. There's been a clean-up operation under the Archive Act. Well, that's the only time the Tax Administration complies with the Archive Act, I'd say. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u148	I can reassure Mr Omtzigt, because before those actions, the cleaning up of the systems, all the previous versions are just stored, so that information is available.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u149	I am very pleased with that commitment. I'm serious. Mr President, I should like to finish my question. We've got a timeline, but that's exactly the same timeline as the ADR. But the minister of this Secretary of State has sent a completely different document, a different timeline, to the Chamber. Three quarters of the information was missing. Do we now have all the information about what happened, including the political questions? So, has there ever been a political mission from the ministerial committee? Has there ever been a political mandate from the Secretary of State or anywhere else to set this in motion, including the file that Mr Snels asked for? Can the Omtzigt motion asking for a timeline be carried out? Can we have it within a month and can we have all those elements in it, including the ministerial committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u150	I'm just looking for what elements you think are missing from the timeline. Because you've been given a timeline, from what steps at what point in the file. It is undoubtedly not complete and complete, as you ask, because it does not go from minute to minute and per day. We have, of course, tried to make that timeline as good as possible together with the ADR. What elements in the timeline do you think are still missing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u151	It is very difficult for a Member of Parliament to say which documents are missing in a timeline if you do not know that. That's why you want the timeline.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u152	No, but you're asking for a supplement to the timeline, right? Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u153	Yeah, there's some elements in that. Element one is the ministerial committee. Has these decisions been taken and have they concerned the CAF cases? That has to be given somewhere in the timeline. Number two: we know from a number of moments that memos were sent to the directors between 2012 and 2019. Those memos are not in the timeline, while we asked for a construction of what the official and political summit knew. That is why we ask you to have one timeline in which all those documents, including those documents behind them, are in place. That is not going to work during this debate, I understand that, but we would like to have that timeline. It has become important because it is even more important if you report against the Tax Administration and therefore against civil servants to know whether there was a political mandate underneath it, or whether top officials have started doing it more or less out of their own hobby.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u154	I think it's a good idea for me to think about this and come back to it in the second term. Of course it's about a timeline, but you're also asking about pieces and behind memos. I'm gonna have to dive in on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u155	Okay. Then I'll go to Mr. Azarkan on the other microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u156	That's right. We must set an example, Mr President. I've often felt a little misinformed about a question I've asked. I think that goes for more colleagues. Sometimes very bad, but with regard to the blacklists I felt really screwed. I asked 60 questions around 17 July. One of those questions was: do there exist blacklists? The answer was no. That's what I was told. Can you get on that blacklist? No, it doesn't exist. How is it reported to people that they're on that blacklist? Can they get off that? No, there's no such thing. Is there also a second ethnicity or a second nationality? None of that is true. I wonder how the Secretary of State based on what was said by the team that handled it, that something simply wasn't true, when it was there; it turned out to be for 20 years, on which thousands of people stood, on which it was clear that it would be possible to ensure that the questions that were asked were answered fairly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u157	Well, that's a complicated question, because I'd like to look very openly and carefully at what's going on. The question you asked was about the FSV system we're talking about. Indeed, we need to be very clear about what was going on with that. What was that system and are there any more of these systems within the Ministry? It is also for that reason that we have said, my colleague Mr Vijlbrief and I, that we think it is so important that we are not just going to look at what that FSV system was like, how did it work, and how could it affect taxpayers or taxpayers? But also: are there other systems in the service? We are going to do this very carefully and thoroughly, also with the help of externals, to make sure that all our systems, all of them, are looked at very carefully. I therefore trust that this research will give us that insight. Doesn't that research say that there might still be a list somewhere on a computer? I can't see that. But I really want that to come out. We want that to be sorted out as much as possible, and I also want any form of bias on fraud from our service. Because, of course, we need a system at the Tax Office in order to be able to record signs of fraud. We are an implementation organisation that should also be able to detect fraud where it is committed. But that has to comply with all the rules. This must comply with Article 1 of the Constitution, and that must, of course, also comply with the rules of the GDPR. We're gonna work on that, too. So we are going to do very thorough research on the one hand and, of course, we are going to make sure that we are going to set it up in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u158	I welcome that answer and I welcome that intention. I have already asked here: can the Secretary of State rule out the fact that tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, people will be judged on the basis of their last name, their second nationality, their skin colour, etc.?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u159	Well, at least that's what needs to be done, because it shouldn't be done. I also said that in my introduction, someone in the Netherlands is being treated differently because of his background, skin colour, nationality, etc., and so on, except where there is specific mention in a regulation that nationality is relevant, that it's relevant whether you're a Dutchman or not. That has nothing to do with second nationality. But the essence is that this should not happen. We are going to work to make sure that we understand what has happened and that our systems are set up precisely on it. We're gonna do more than that, too. Of course, we are going to make sure that people know exactly what is and is not allowed when it comes to the issue of nationality: where do we need it and where do we not need it? We ensure that our employees know everything about the GDPR. They're trained for that, but they need to be further trained, because I think it's important that it's very clear. If you're asking me to rule that out for now forever, I'm saying, I can't. However, I would like to stress that I am going to do my utmost to ensure that this is not possible, because I agree with you that it is absolutely impossible and should not and should not be prevented.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u160	Secretary of State's been at it for two hours. I actually want to ask her if she needs a short suspension. Or do you just want to keep going? I do think that the first debate is a sort of hazing programme. So I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u161	Could we finish this block now and then take a break? Then it's nice and complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u162	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u163	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u164	No, Mr. Van Weyenberg. The Secretary of State finishes her story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u165	In this block on nationality it was also about the question asked by Mr Nijboer. That was because of something that was found a few weeks ago. It was not so much about supplements but about a system of income tax. The only thing I want to say about that is that the subject of that investigation we are talking about. You said it's still being used. But it's good to know that it's not. We have found a system that has been used until 2015 and which is now no longer being used in any form of assessment. I do not want to justify it, but I do want to say that it is no longer on the agenda. Then there is Mr Bruins' question about algorithms. You have also indicated in your contribution that algorithms are used in the control and supervision of the Tax Administration. This is true in the Tax Administration in the broad sense of the word. We then select on the basis of elements related, for example, to the question: would it be possible that things are not going well here somehow? For example, income tax could be someone who suddenly applies for very high deductions at the beginning of the year. We use those risk models. Indeed, we use systems and also input provided by humans. But we also know that your Chamber has asked for more insight into how that works and what elements are in it. We have already made a commitment on this, namely that we would like to include you in it, albeit in a confidential setting, because we also think it is important that, if we indicate how we make these selections, we should not make people wiser, in the sense that it would then be easier to commit fraud. This was actually all I wanted to say about those algorithms. We also talked about blacklists. We talked about the FSV system. I have another question here about second nationality. That was the question: how are you going to make sure it doesn't happen? I think I have answered that too. I think we've had this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u166	Exactly. In principle, then, you have the subject of declarations and the transformation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u167	Yes, the tax returns and the transformation of the tax administration, and there are a number of other small questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u168	Then I'd like to suspend for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u169	That's nice for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u170	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u171	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will continue with the subject of the second opinion and the declaration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u173	On the previous point, Mr Van Weyenberg. Very briefly!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u174	Mr President, otherwise my questions will really hit a pig on that. I have two questions. The Secretary of State would pick out something else for me on Social Affairs. In fact, I would like to ask whether the Secretary of State of SZW could send us a letter prior to the legal process, in which she would indicate exactly how she would allow that investigation to be carried out internally, when she thought it would be done, who would do it and what the structure would be. Then we can have the conversation with whoever's talking about it. That would be my first suggestion. Then the Secretary of State will no longer have to look for the deadline I asked for. That's my first question. My second question is about the treatment. A lot of parents have of course had to fight the beers for a long time. They've had to jump through those hoops that can't jump through. The Secretary of State keeps saying: we now have a different approach. At the same time, of course, parents often have to present stuff in many of the groups themselves. And that's kind of complicated in those old cases, for example. I have a question about the attitude of the Tax Administration and the staff who are doing so now. If it is not quite sharp, if there is doubt, is the benefit of the doubt in doubt? Is that the attitude of the Tax Administration towards parents who have always had the disadvantage of doubt for so long in doubt?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u175	To deal with the latter: that is our intention. We'd like it to be plausible that something happened. It doesn't always have to be proven or educated with all the receipts, all the facts, etcetera, etcetera. It is true that we are doing this in a human way, not in the way the assessments have been done so far. Otherwise we will end up in the same swamp, as Mrs Leijten calls it. With regard to your other question, I think it is very good that I should ask my colleague to provide you with information on this by letter. So I think it is right for me to pass on your question to her so that she can come back to it and indicate how she intends to deal with the investigation and what timing it intends to do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u176	Thank you for that answer. It would be nice if we had that information when we deal with the law here, because then we'll talk about this case again. I hear what the Secretary of State says. She's using the word "indeed." I define that as "not beyond the last comma." Parents have to bring their own stuff now. If there is a feeling that something seems to be right but that it is not 100% to prove, then the real benefit of the doubt is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u177	But we won't just ask parents. We are also going to work with our own files and we are also going to see how, for example, we can get information up with childcare organisations or banks, in consultation with these parents, of course, in order to complete the dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u178	In addition to the commitment to have Mrs Van Ark write a letter: so far, it has always been about the signal that there was between Finance and Social Affairs, and that has been bogged down. But now we know that even in that legislative preparation, which has been done, that all-or-nothing approach was at issue, that that too has not gone through and that this can be taken into account in the investigation. This is about the same thing, but it is about two different routes. That seems important to me, because that is precisely where political responsibility lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u179	I will inform Secretary of State Van Ark that you are asking this additional question in response to the question that has already been asked to her through Mr Van Weyenberg. Then she can come back to that in that letter. That sounds good to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u180	Thank you for repeating the commitment that the Chamber can be confidentially informed about algorithms. My question in my contribution was just a little bit wider, and then specifically about the algorithm used, which meant that these parents we're talking about today were targeted. My question was whether that specific algorithm is also used in other places, for example in the care allowance or in the blue department.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u181	The algorithm that specifically... I'm sorry, I just need to get this really sharp. Algorithms are used in general, in a broad sense. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u182	Yeah, and then specifically the algorithm used for the childcare allowance, which actually got these parents on the retina automatically. Is that algorithm also widely used within execution services?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u183	Algorithms are widely used. If you're talking about that particular algorithm, I find that a difficult question to answer, frankly. Once again, different types of algorithms are used for the different load components, but they are all used there. Maybe you'll help me with what exactly you're looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u184	Double nationality, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u185	Whether double nationality has also been used as a criterion in other situations? We didn't find anything for that. But it is part of, for example, the SVB research to see if that has indeed been discussed elsewhere or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u186	Okay, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u187	Let's talk about the report. Last week there was a report. We talked about this last week and I also indicated that this has been quite impactful, not just for the parents, but certainly for the service itself. You have asked a number of questions about what that does with and means for the organisation. Let me be clear about this: in recent days, and certainly yesterday, I have spoken quite extensively with some of the tax authorities, and they are quite impressed by that. You could say they're really shocked about that, too. They find that incredibly uncomfortable and I understand that very well. Although this is not a declaration against persons, but a declaration against crime, a "suspect of crime' declaration, the exact wording "of course' is very harsh when that happens and if that happens to you. They are, of course, concerned about what that means to them, how it all works out, what it does. One of the things that matters to me... This was, of course, precisely a consequence of what happened after we made a contribution to that, too, and asked whether criminal offences were committed. That's the investigation we did with each other. That has been done on the basis of a commitment and that has led to this conclusion, and thus also to the need for Secretary of State Vijlbrief and me to make that statement. But of course that has an impact. That has an impact on the people who work there. It is important that we do a number of things. Of course, we have to cooperate fully in the prosecution's investigation. There is no alternative but to do so, and we want to do so in a broad sense. The second thing that is extremely important is that we are helping the employees who work for the Tax Administration, as I said in my introduction, those who do so with heart and soul, who love to do so, who do so with all good intentions and with all their integrity, by indicating how they can do their work in a way that does not concern all of this. Because, of course, it is important that people can just make decisions in the coming time, that they also have the assurance that when they make a decision, that decision is good and that making that decision does not result in them being subject to criminal investigations in the future or otherwise. So that's very important. We need to guide people in their work, we need to identify the decisions that can be made, we need to make sure that they get the right tools, the right help and the right support. And, of course, we also need to work on a change of culture in the Tax Administration. I'd like to say a little more about that in a moment. But it hasn't been said that this will only be gone in a few days. This is impactful for the organization. I will do my utmost to ensure that I guide the staff as best I can. We want to ensure that those 99.999% of the people who work so hard and who are not at all part of this research can also do their job well in the coming period. Because that is what is needed in order to speed up, for example, the recovery for the parents, which you are talking about. And of course we ensure that employees can also use the trusted persons, the counselors we have set up, so that they can also be accompanied when they need them. I'm going to continue on this theme. It was about whether the declaration is indeed still directed towards persons. I said we reported the suspicion of two criminal offences. So it's not about people. And it is also important to know that now, of course, it is also up to the Public Prosecutor to find out exactly how that works. There, of course, one can choose how one wants to deal with the research. The D.A. is completely independent and will receive all our cooperation, for example in making documents available, speaking with people or whatever is necessary. We talked about the safe culture. Mr Azarkan van DENK asked how it came about that those internal and external investigations that we had previously produced did not come to this conclusion. That is, of course, an important question. This has something to do with the fact that it is also quite a legal issue, which has now been submitted to, in my opinion, one of the top specialists in this field in the Netherlands. This was indeed done on the basis of the documents of, among other things, the CAF files. And although it seemed in earlier instances that there was no reason to believe that crimes had been committed, or that this was not suspected, this investigation has shown that this is indeed the case. That is why we have intervened. That was done in a very thorough, good way. There's been a rigorous test. I think that's important, too. Because if it's okay, it's gonna give us a picture of the investigations that come from the State's Attorney's Office. It must be made clear whether there has been such a practice and whether there has been professional discrimination. All right, well, I think it's important that that happens. Mr Snels asked why I did not ask the National Criminal Court to investigate earlier. We did not see any reason for this at the time, but now it is quite clearly a different matter. Mr Azarkan also asked whether we would support or help the prosecution. The D.A. is, of course, independent. I hope that people will get to work there as soon as possible, because I think it is in everyone's interest that we should be clear about what happened quickly. This is in the interests of the parents and of the people involved within our organisation. But in the public prosecutor's office, of course, they decide how to design the investigation there. I cannot make any statements about this. Anyway, I hope they get to work on this as soon as possible. And we will give them every opportunity to do so. Many questions have been asked on this subject, but I think I have answered them all by now. I'm just browsing through my papers. I think I have come a long way on the subject of the declaration, but I may have missed questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u188	First Mr Azarkan, then Mr Snels, then Mr Omtzigt, then Mr Van Otterloo and then Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. Mr. Azarkan, Mr. DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u189	Thank you for your answer on this point. I think it's clear that the D.A. is independent and is going to investigate. Anything necessary will be made available. The people who need to be heard are at their disposal. I have two more questions. Mr Biemond's analysis also looked, among other things, at coercion by abuse of authority and at withholding evidence. In this selection of information that has been provided, nothing has been found of it. Does this mean that the Secretary of State indicates that there will no longer be a search on these two points, because the selection of information actually reflects fairly well what else to find?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u190	No, because it's up to the D.A. to determine how they design the investigation. So if they think it's important to look at other files, other facts and other information, then they can. We filed a report on the basis of this investigation. We have, of course, also specifically sent this investigation with us to inform the D.A. of the reasons for making this report. But they can of course look further, including other dossiers and other themes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u191	I would like to ask the Secretary of State precisely about this, because perhaps we do not understand each other very well. That would be a shame. The Secretary of State has filed a report of greedy and professional discrimination. Does that mean that the investigation is limited to these two criminal offences, or are there any other cases that can be investigated?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u192	Again, that's really up to the D.A. If they consider that something else should be done on the basis of Biemond's analysis or otherwise, they can of course investigate it. We had a specific reason to ask for research on these two issues. We are also bound by state law to do so if we discover new facts or otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u193	Mr. Snels, this microphone. You need to be careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u194	It's a good thing you're paying attention, Mr. Chairman. I have a question about the National CID. You state: that was not the issue. But now the department itself has made the decision whether or not to report it. It took a second opinion. It would have been so obvious to ask the National Police for that. My question is: has that never been discussed? Hasn't it ever been considered? Didn't it ever come up? Wouldn't that be an option that's much better? Isn't it much better to ask the National Police for that instead of conducting their own investigations or filing an immediate report? That's what they're for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u195	The route, as we have understood it, is: if you have a suspicion of felony crimes, you are required as a ruler to report it. You're gonna report it to the state's attorney's office. The Public Prosecutor's Office can then again outsource research to the National Criminal Court, for example. But I'm required to file that report with the state's attorney's office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u196	Last question, Mr. Quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u197	I'm sure you counted better than I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u198	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u199	It's not about the reporting obligation, because I get it, now that there's been a second opinion. The point is that you have to investigate exactly what actually happened. That's what the department has done. While it happens more often, in the government and also in politics, that we have the National Criminal Court investigate if anything has happened. Then we're gonna press charges. That would have been so obvious. That is why I am asking whether that has never been mentioned. Hasn't that ever been suggested? Wouldn't that have been an option?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u200	As far as I know, that has indeed not been discussed and has not been discussed before. However, the commitment made by Minister Hoekstra, who was temporarily my predecessor, has been very clearly discussed in order to actually have that second opinion carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u201	I see Mr Omtzigt no longer has any questions. You asked all the questions!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u202	Let's run, Mr. Chairman. The declaration was made on the basis of the documents. Those are documents that have become public. There are still a lot of documents that haven't gone public. That is not how Mr Biemond got the document from the ADR. In the text of the ADR............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ However, only the 3 times on which Mr Biemond received documents have been reported. Mr Biemond didn't know anything about the other 97 times, because those things weren't in his pieces. The same applies between 2017 and 2020. Everyone says: from 2017 on, everyone knew. The ADR is crystal clear about that. The report of the National Ombudsman states: from 2017 onwards, the Tax Administration should have changed. Does the Secretary of State know on the basis of all the documents that she has and which are or are not shared with the Chamber whether I want to see them or not is another discussion sure that there are not more cases? Because it would be weird if it were limited to just those three points. Could we be informed within a week or two of whether there are more cases which the Secretary of State thinks are subject to reporting or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u203	Maybe I can say two things about that. In his opinion, Mr Biemond pointed out that, in his opinion, we should report, or be obliged to report, on the basis of these two types of crimes: hoisting and professional discrimination. He supports this professional discrimination with, among other things, a number of things. It is not the case that we have said that only the D.A. can look at that. In fact, the prosecution itself decides whether it wishes to investigate other forms of discrimination or otherwise in its further investigation. Of course, we'll send all the reports to the D.A.'s office as to why it's asking. This includes the study of the ADR. I think that's important. It is therefore not the case that the declaration is limited to: OM, you may only look at these documents. The report is about these facts and we ask the D.A. to take action to investigate them. That's actually what it is. You ask me: can you let me know within fourteen days whether there are any other subjects on which you think there is a need to report them? If I find it, I'll have to do it immediately. I'm required to report crimes, if I think there are, or suspicions of crimes. I will always and immediately. I will inform the Public Prosecutor's Office of that, and of course you will. But it's a little hard to answer the question now what else I'm going to investigate. We now have an ongoing investigation from the D.A.'s office. It's going to work. I suggest we let them do that job first. If I find any other facts of wrongdoing or crimes, I will always report them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u204	Please continue. Oh, no, I'm sorry. First, Mr Van Otterloo. Then Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, Mrs Lodders and Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u205	I do not know whether it was quite clear, but I believe that there is a difference between the criminal investigation and the internal measures that have been taken. The internal measures led to unrest among the staff. Of course, you can always see that coming. But the question I have asked is what research has preceded the setting aside of the five. And is there another study of several people on the basis of the information that has come up, to see if there are sufficient grounds against other civil servants that are so serious that you need to take action in the sphere of employer and employee?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u206	Let me say a few things about that. We've filed a report of two suspected felonies. The heart of the matter is that in the letter I sent you last week, I also indicated that we have taken appropriate measures. We did. If you ask me what exactly is going on with employee X, Y, Z or any other person, then I think we have the agreement. I think that is a golden rule in this Chamber that we do not talk about persons, and certainly not about persons who cannot defend themselves in the debate. But what I do want to convince you of, or try to convince you of, is this. Before I did this job, I was an employer at a big organization. I am well aware that this declaration is causing a great deal of concern to our employees. I've spoken to them. It is quite obvious that they are very concerned and very concerned, including about the image of the service, and so on, and so on. You can trust that I will do everything in my power to ensure that they are able to do their job safely and properly, and that all the measures we take in the coming period will do what a good employer has to do. So if it were necessary to take steps with the works council or otherwise, we will of course do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u207	No, I didn't mean to talk about the individual employees who may or may not be inactive. But that's what reports come in the media. There are people who stand up for them and there are people who don't stand up for them. It's not about that. I don't want to judge those individuals. But I note that an investigation has apparently been carried out on the basis of which measures have been taken. I cannot imagine that no investigation has been carried out on the basis of which measures have been taken. That is the first question. The second question is then: is there any further research with possibly the same results?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u208	I would actually like to repeat what I said. With regard to everything that is necessary, in terms of the steps we take internally, any member of the Tax Office can trust that the taking of these steps will be carried out in accordance with the rules of civil service law and in accordance with the rules that we have internally. I would actually like to say better and rather: as a good employer should do. I would like to leave it at that, given the fact that I do not like, nor do I wish, to talk about individual cases here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u209	The answers to the second opinion and the declaration state that the Prime Minister and the Ministry of General Affairs were informed about Mr. Biemond's draft opinion and about the decision to make a declaration, not in its preliminary draft. Advice was then requested from the national attorney on the process of declaration. My question is: has there been any consultation between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of General Affairs on the question of advice to the national attorney on the process of declaration? That's my first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u210	When a draft report came in, we shared it with a number of ministries, because we thought it was important to share that information with them, and then we took the steps to make that known to them. We filed that report at the time the final report fell on the mat; that was on the morning when I informed you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u211	But that's not an answer to my question. I asked if there was any consultation between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of General Affairs on the question of advice to the national attorney on the process of declaration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u212	As far as I know, this has not been discussed with the Ministry of General Affairs. We've been in touch with the state's attorney about how it works and what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u213	Could the Secretary of State say what date that counsel is from the state's attorney? Was that advice then shared with General Affairs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u214	Then you ask me something I can't answer. I don't know if anything was written, but I can come back to that in the second term if you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u215	I think we're at the end of the block on the declaration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u216	The Secretary of State was ready, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u217	Maybe I forgot something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u218	What I miss a little bit is how we deal with the trust of those 30,000 people. That was the general issue, but perhaps the Secretary of State can say something about it. A number of questions were answered yesterday, for which I am grateful. There was also coverage, because a factual question was answered. The IRS didn't promise punishment for civil servants' fees. This was about the scope for action against individual officials in the context of unlawful action. My question is whether this has not been discussed with this Secretary of State, but with her predecessor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u219	I cannot give the answer to that at the moment. I shall come back to that in the second term, but it has certainly not been discussed with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u220	If you get a draft opinion on 15 May that says you have to file a complaint, I can imagine you're consulting with the highest chef in the country, in this case with the Prime Minister. You say that in the second term you will come back to the state's attorney, but I need a timeline. There is a lot of discussion about how things went internally in the four days between May 15th and May 19th. The trade unions are very upset that the staff heard this very late. I'd appreciate it if there was a timeline underneath; you'll come back to that. I also asked a question during Question Time. What if the IRS gets convicted? What does that mean for the political position of the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u221	I'm afraid I can't just answer that because it's unclear what's going on. It's a very bad if-dan question, but I think we should act on things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u222	I also asked that question in the series that Mrs Lodder was talking about. There is, of course, a conscience of the cases that have been reported. During the period you are investigating this has not occurred. That may also be a criminal offence of the period after that. After all, if you know about criminal offences, you're supposed to intervene, you're supposed to stop them and report them. So I am very curious about how the cabinet looks at this, because we need to know what happens when the Tax Administration is convicted and what political consequences that will have. Is there gonna be a report against directors? Then what's gonna happen? It seems to me that the cabinet has thought about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u223	The cabinet did not think so far forward, at least I did not, about what exactly are the questions. We did what we did, which is to file a report when it turned out we had to. The research has yet to take place, so I think it is a little premature to think about what the results of that research are if we do not even know what the results of that research are. I think it would be wise for us to let the Public Prosecutor do his job. I have already said that we are going to cooperate in this and then see what steps are needed when those results are in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u224	I have a question along the lines of this, but hopefully not so much a question as a question of dance. In the first term, I talked about the Ministerial responsibilities and criminal offences Act. On that basis, you may be able to prosecute retired directors. The report against the Tax Administration was made following an investigation. That report has not gone spontaneously; there has not only been a suspicion, but there has really been an investigation. My question is the following and I put it in the first term. Can the Secretary of State rule out the fact that the former ministers in the previous cabinet were already so aware of the abuses surrounding the child care allowance that they are to blame and to blame, in such a way that the declaration might be justified? Shouldn't the same kind of investigation take place there? That is the question I have asked and which has not yet been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u225	Your question is a bit like Mr Van Weyenberg's question, which we have indicated will be answered by Secretary of State Van Ark in a letter. He asked what information was available, we have already shared it with you for the Ministry of Finance, and what additional information is still emerging as a result of the investigation she intends to do. Again, my colleague will inform you about the commitment and timing of that research. I think it's okay to look at what that means after that. I would like to refer back to the questions that have been asked. The fact that a letter is coming is, I think, a good time for you to look at it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u226	We're going to the last topic about, the transformation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u227	Yes. That's mostly about the IRS itself. We have already dealt with some of them. This is about the culture of the Tax Administration and the consequences of the declaration. It is important in this small block in response to the questions asked that we will talk together with the staff about what has happened in the past period. As regards Mrs Leijten's questions, I have said a few things about them in connection with the problem of increases. The essence is that we don't have everything we need to know about the parents yet, and we want to understand that. We're going to work to get information on the missing documents. Mr Omtzigt also asked for this. We are going to work on the theme of the "set-up/grove debt" qualification and we are going to work, while we are waiting for the investigation of the Dutch Data Protection Authority, to make sure that it is very clear to everyone who works with us what should and should not be done when it comes to nationality. There are places in the Tax Office where that is possible, but it is not and not by a long shot everywhere. In fact, in most cases this is not an important factor. What we are going to do to work on this culture improvement is a subject that I share with my colleague Hans Vijlbrief. We have promised your Chamber that we would like to return to a number of themes before the summer. They are not just about the improvement programme that has already been deployed by our predecessor, Menno Snel, but also about how we can make the Tax Administration a service that everyone can be proud of. Pride, because there is work in a way that is legal and reliable and that requires service and human measure. That is exactly what we want to work on in the coming period, and of course certainly a service that has a good antenna for developments in society. As I said, we'd like to get back to you before the summer. Many of the topics have already been discussed in other blocks. I have said enough about the transformation. I'm gonna move on to the little block of others as closure. That started with questions about the report of the Dutch Data Protection Authority, but we have already discussed that. I do not, of course, determine the speed of the Authority, but I agree with you that it would be very nice if that investigation were to come very quickly. I have also indicated that, as long as there is not, we are at least going to work to ensure that the issue plays an important role in our internal training of employees and in ensuring that systems are correct. For example, it must be clear to all employees that this was a question that Mrs Lodders had in which cases nationality is a factor that you can examine and in which cases it is not. Then there is Mr Omtzig's question on practical legal protection. You have requested that an investigation be launched into the practical legal protection of citizens and small businesses under the tax and surcharge laws. Part of the work has been done by the Donner Committee. On 19 February 2020, I indicated to you that I would set up an advisory committee to do so. The purpose of this is to ensure that we have this practical legal protection in the framework of the Tax Administration. That committee's gonna get to work. We have now found three independent candidates who will work with it. The institution decision was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 20 May 2020, will be published shortly and will then come before you. We hope to be able to send you a final report on this at the end of the year. We have had the question about the heritage inspection. The same applies to Mr Mulder's question about the discussion with the host parents. I guess I'll be through it then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u228	Then I want to thank you so much for... Easy, easy! Has there been a question left, Mr. Ommzigt? Really? Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u229	I'd put a few, too, so that's no more than normal. The questions that have remained are the following. Can the Secretary of State take part in the Heritage Inspection, now that the documents cannot be found for the ADR, that the Heritage Inspection is asked to investigate the documents that have been lost, such as the management reports and the other reports? Two: I asked the question about the fact that the Tax Administration left out a lot of information and told falsehoods to High Colleges of State. Simple enough: for years, she told the Dutch Data Protection Authority and the Ombudsman that no nationality was used and told in court cases that parents did not call while they had called 100 times. There are also some parliamentary questions that could have been answered differently with the knowledge of today. I'm expecting a plan to put these things right. I asked very specifically if we could get a list of these, and I can give you the examples, and if those cases can be corrected towards those authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u230	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u231	If the Tax Department doesn't speak the truth about High Colleges of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u232	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u233	... then we have a serious problem in our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u234	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u235	I asked for documents, but this was about documents, and it was about the precise promises made to those three tax officials. Is there anything on paper or by e-mail? What have they been promised? Is they promised that no matter what they told the ADR, this could never be used against them, so that it became some kind of but-free exercise: if I confess everything, nothing can ever happen to me? And if so, has that option ever been there for parents?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u236	I would like to return to that last question in the second term. Then there is the question of correcting authorities. You are talking about specific cases. It would be very helpful if you would tell me which ones they are, because I would very much like to do so. Where we have to correct something, I would also like to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u237	I can be quite clear about that. In a number of lawsuits, it's been told that parents should have called. They called and they didn't. The National Ombudsman has been informed on several occasions that a second nationality has not been selected. Later that turned out to be the case. The same has been reported to the Personal Data Authority. That's why it took them a year and a half before the investigation started. My Parliamentary questions in 2017 were answered that the Tax Office was not aware that someone had ever gotten into trouble because of the reimbursement of the childcare allowance. I kid you not. Yeah, laugh about it, but of course it's painful. I understand that some questions are sometimes incomplete. But these are the concrete examples that I would have liked to correct by means of official letters to those authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u238	In the first case, you're talking about a parent's file. I'm assuming we're gonna go over that file. I know that when we go to work with those parents and we get those files up and running, sometimes the files on our side weren't complete, for example in court. I think that we should first of all apologize to the parents who have, perhaps unjustly, got us into trouble. I am happy to report our shortcomings, whether to the Ombudsman or otherwise, but I am not going to do that case-by-case. I would like to consult with you to see if this has been cleared up for them. When it comes to your own questions in 2017, I think that it has become clear that there have been some very serious problems with childcare. You have done a great deal of work to get that done, together with Mrs Leijten, so I would not know how to serve you in that. I think that has become very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u239	I am glad that if there are any problems with the files, the parents will be corrected, because we really have files that are incomplete. People got stamps for pieces they delivered, but those pieces aren't in the files. That's really gonna bring us back. Mrs Leijten has more examples of this than I do. As far as the court is concerned, I do not entirely agree with the answer. I'm asking your service to find out if things have been said in court that don't add up and that can be traced back. It has a purifying effect. You will not only have to apologize to the parents, but you will unfortunately have to tell the judiciary as well. That's very painful as IRS. But if that example is not set... I'm still sitting here with a lump in my throat. That chunk in my throat has not diminished since this debate, because I found out last night that the release of the tax officials has continued. I'm not in it as "Barbertje should hang," but those parents are in life, and the whistleblower was fired. The tax officials were allowed to go to someone and say: I don't even need to get a reprimand. How is the Secretary of State going to take away the feeling in the Chamber and in society that if you work at the Tax Office, you can do anything and finally get away with it, and that if you are a citizen, your rights are violated, your files aren't there, management reports aren't there, there are falsehoods being told at the High Colleges of State and no one has been reprimanded so far, despite the report?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u240	I share this with you and I sympathize with you when it comes to what happened to the parents. Actually, that's what we're talking about all day. It's really horrible. I said earlier in this Chamber, in a committee meeting, that it is a subject to be ashamed of as a government, in the broad sense: all of us. When it comes to the issue of how to proceed within the Tax Administration, I have indicated a number of elements that are going on there. Of course, there is also the subject of the declaration of suspicion of crime. That is about the most serious issue when it comes to clarifying what happened at this service. I therefore believe that this research is being done very well. I would also like to say that we are mainly working to restore parents as quickly as possible, because that is going to help them most. It will help most to ensure that their justice is done. It will help most to ensure that they can regain confidence in the government, because they are treated in a way that suits a government with a human face. I will also answer your last question. You asked me to ask the Heritage Inspectorate if they could still find those management reports. I would very much like to ask them, because it is not my intention to withhold them. Neither is our intention. Our sincere conviction is that they were not created or that they did not end up in an archive system or otherwise. They can watch that. I am also going to ask the Heritage Inspectorate how it has been with the parents' files and documents, because I also think it is so important to find out what has been going on there and how many parents have indicated not only to you, but also to me that they have submitted documentation, that they have even stopped by several times with a package of copies and that they have not been found in their files and that they have therefore been assessed as they have been assessed. I also think it is very important that that should be revealed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u241	Thank you for the commitment to submit it to the Heritage Inspectorate. I found this violating the Archive Act. Losing an individual note can really happen at the IRS. Losing the management team's decision lists means we can't control here anymore. That is a serious violation of the democratic rule of law. I therefore welcome the fact that the Heritage Inspectorate is looking into this. Let me come back to the first point. Making a report is a tough step. I understand and admire how you did it. I also understand why it took you four days to get the first opinion on the report. In fact, I wouldn't know if I'd make it in four days. So you won't hear me about that. But it doesn't relieve the Tax Administration of its duty to see if other matters have happened there. It's not like we just judge civil servants with criminal law. I should hope not. This means that we still have to look internally at whether things have gone well and whether there are any conclusions to be drawn. You don't have to go public. You can tell us here in a few months that this has had a number of consequences. But it cannot be that we say now: okay, this is it, this process is going to take years and at the same time those people are still in their position. After that, I will hear whether a political mandate has been given. That's what I hear in second term. That's another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u242	For the record, you are saying that I do not want to invent anymore, and that is what I want to do. I have already said in my contribution that, apart from the recovery of the parents, which is our priority, we are also looking into a number of issues. That's about the question of how could someone be labeled a fraud when he wasn't. This is related to the subject of intent/greater debt. We also discussed the subject of those missing documents. The Heritage Inspectorate is going to do its job, but also another organisation that we have asked to look in our digital files in particular, to see how people could turn things in, but that somehow disappeared. I have also indicated that we want to understand better, not only on the basis of the AP's research, but also if we can find out for ourselves whether there is ethnic profiling, which is expressly not allowed. So we're gonna go through with that. I shall come back to your other question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u243	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u244	Thanks for that, but one more question. A few years ago we had a few people from the Royal Marechaussee who worked here in The Hague at the Royal Stables. They used to hit the machine that rolled candy out of. They couldn't, because they had to throw a euro in there. We fired those people. They were civil servants. It was just in the paper. And here, after ten debates, we still have the situation that certain people have fired whistleblowers and told false things to High Colleges of State. These things are much worse to me, because they have put people in the middle of their lives. But we still do not know whether measures have been taken. I don't even need to know exactly what measures. The only measure we've ever heard of is a valuable conversation. Every teenager's parent knows that a valuable conversation sometimes works, but not always, and sometimes a penalty is needed. There's a whole case on the table right now. Is this Secretary of State prepared, if she thinks that there has been an error, to commit actions to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u245	I think I showed the ultimate action, which is what happened last week. In general, I think it is important to act when people make mistakes, intentionally or unintentionally, and when things don't happen properly in an organisation. I don't just think that's important to the IRS. That applies in general. Again, I've run organizations where mistakes were made before. Then, of course, it's how you fix that. I think that should be done. If you ask me whether I think that the mistakes that are being made should be corrected, I say: yes, I do think that we should do so. The singular fact that I am standing here also has something to do with the consequences this dossier has had at political level. You ask me whether action is being taken. We take action and one of the actions most visible to you was the declaration we made last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u246	Then I'll go to Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u247	In the first instance, I had asked for a commitment from the Secretary of State on the external investigation of the reports of the whistleblower Pierre Niessen. I asked her to agree to include all other reports, including citizens' reports and reports from the lawyer of many parents, Eva González Pérez.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u248	When it comes to this particular case, we are going to conduct external investigations. That's what we've been advised to do. We talked about this last week. That is indeed about the issue of a whistleblower. I have also promised that if there are outcomes that are greater than this only fact, I will tell you something about it. If there are specific issues that need to be taken into account, they are not known to me. I do not know what you are talking about, what reports you are talking about in this context. Of course, reports of whistleblowers and reports of citizens or otherwise must always be dealt with. In this case, I am not familiar with specific reports that have been made and which I should be investigating. Maybe you can help me with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u249	I have just said that reports have been made, among other things, by the lawyer who assists many parents in this supplementing affair. It would be completely illogical not to take them with you if an external investigation was carried out into the whistleblower's reports. I would like the Secretary of State to look very carefully for a second time and return to what reports she will take with her in that investigation. For it is completely illogical to conclude an investigation first and then conclude that there have perhaps been reports of crimes and wrongdoings and to investigate them again. That still wants to get closer...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u250	I would certainly like to come back to that, but in this particular case I do not know any other reports than those made by Mr Niessen. But I'd like to get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u251	Mrs. Lodders, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u252	Yes, I had asked a question about the CAF 11 case that has been raised several times, about the specific group that has again objected. I may have missed it, but I would like the Secretary of State's undertaking that this group of over 40 parents will also be contacted to start the conversation. These people deserve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u253	Of course we will. We have indicated that individual CAF parents have objected and that there is a collective objection on behalf of about 40 parents; 41 are there, I believe, if I am exactly. Of course, we will discuss this with them and see what is going on. I indicated earlier that we did that compensation for those CAF 11 parents on a policy decision that was in force in December. We beat that then, but of course we have a different scheme now, so it is possible that the CAF 11 parents are also eligible for wider compensation. That's what we're gonna discuss with them anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u254	I see Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u255	Sorry, Mr President, but I think the last thing the Secretary of State says is very important: perhaps they can still claim a broader compensation. Of those remaining almost 300 parents, some have really been beaten up. They didn't object. I'm sure they'll take a look at that. There may also be people who may be eligible for this. I'm gonna make it bigger, I realize that, but it wouldn't be fair to let people who got beaten up miss something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u256	What we can at least undertake is to inform them about the possibility of this new regulation. It could be that in their case it doesn't play out. You said they've all been beaten up. But fortunately there are also CAF 11-parents who are happy and satisfied with the compensation they eventually received after all these years. I think it is important that all CAF parents are aware of all the remedies available.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u257	Then I would like to thank you very much for your answers to the first-term questions. I'd say sit down and have a glass of water. We're going to the second term on the side of the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u258	Mr. Chairman. On an important point which has not only been raised by me, but also, for example, by Mr Omtzigt, the Secretary of State has not yet addressed the value of Donner's opinion. Is that still standing? He hasn't looked at everything. In fact, the whole Chamber thinks that the people who have also been affected should be included under, for example, intent/big debt. Actually, the Secretary of State agrees. We see that the ADR is going to investigate risk selection and selection rules. There's gonna be a major investigation into FSV. We can see that there's still research going on into missing pieces. There will be another opinion from the Dutch Data Protection Authority. And there's been a report to the D.A.'s office. And do you know what's even under investigation, Mr. Chairman? Our Prime Minister's job carousel, which he was so emotional about. What happens to people who are responsible for things that can't? That touches on what Mr Omtzigt just said. I really think that Donner has been undermined on all sides and that we can no longer rely on his advice. I have supported a few motions to that effect. I've got two more of my own. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Tax Administration/Applications frequently attributed the qualification set-up/Grove debt to payment recipients;]] [[Furthermore, it noted that design/greater debt caused them major difficulties which led them to lose access to all kinds of facilities, including a payment scheme with the Tax Administration, and that the Council of State already held in April 2019 that design/greater debt had disproportionate effects;]] [[Whereas research into the operation and scope of the use of intent/big debt has already been undertaken;]] [[calls on the Government to send this investigation to the Chamber as soon as possible, including all the underlying internal documents of the Tax Administration and the Ministry of Finance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that thousands of disabled parents have been contacted by the communication that they are not covered by the compensation scheme while there is still no evidence that they have committed fraud;]] [[also finding that they have suffered significant material and emotional damage comparable to the victims of the CAF 11 case;]] [[Whereas the principles of the rule of law require that a person is innocent to the contrary has been proven;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that when dealing with cases in which parents are blamed for misdemeanour/big debt, the Tax Administration always makes known what parents are suspected of defending themselves,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-640]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Leijten, Mr Van Otterloo, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Snels, Mr Nijboer, Mr Azarkan, Mr Van Raan, Mr Lodders, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Bruins.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-641]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am also left with a double feeling after this debate. I appreciate the Secretary of State's commitment and her response, but on the other hand I see how complex it has become and how incredibly much damage has been done, including by the people who have handled the surcharges. For us as representatives of the people, controlling the government is perhaps the most essential task when citizens are shown to get caught up and treated unfairly. I only fear that we will need many more debates before we can conclude this with each other. I have a number of motions, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the difficulty in obtaining files from payment recipients and the incompleteness of many files;]] [[Whereas beneficiaries are entitled to access their own files and need them in order to obtain their rights;]] [[invites the Government to complete all the requested files as soon as possible and to provide them to the beneficiaries, and if files have been lost at the Tax Office, to reverse the burden of proof in those parts in favour of the beneficiaries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the State Secretary has reported a suspicion of professional discrimination and gags committed by the Tax Administration;]] [[Whereas it is important that no one is assessed by origin or last name and that this should be beyond doubt;]] [[whereas the National Ombudsman has indicated that prejudice and bias occur in broad sections of the public administration;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a wide-ranging review of all government executive services for professional discrimination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan, Mr Leijten and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-642]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-643]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u260	One, Mr. Chairman, and I can do it in 30 seconds. You know me. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the State Secretary has reported a suspicion of professional discrimination and gags committed by the Tax Administration;]] [[Whereas the public authorities have an exemplary role to play in society as a whole, in which there is no room for criminal and discriminatory behaviour;]] [[is ready-to-use against professional discrimination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-644]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u261	I have eleven seconds left and at that time I say thank you for sitting in front.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u262	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u263	Mr. Chairman. In such a debate, I always try to imagine what the people we are doing for, in this case the victims of child care, think at the end of such a debate. What did they get out of it? I'm afraid today's answer is really nothing. That's disappointing, but I think it is. I also fear that with the approach of the Secretary of State, who is really doing her best to do justice to the parents, a bit of the same might happen as in Groningen. People are falling further and further into a procedural swamp with committees and opinions on equal treatment, and eventually we will be one or two years away and far from doing justice to all parents. I think that should be reversed, Mr President. I believe that we in the Chamber should say that there was so much injustice here that we set a date on which those parents should be entitled. It's up to the cabinet to make sure that doesn't happen before then. We also see that that can be done. The corona crisis just shows you can do it if you want. Hence the next motion, which I tabled together with Mrs Leijten. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas it is already indicated that some parents will not be clear about compensation until 2021;]] [[whereas parents have been in trouble by the government and they deserve not to wait any longer before they are done justice;]] [[invites the Cabinet to compensate all parents by 1 September 2020 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-645]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u264	Finally, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her first appearance in a plenary debate in the Chamber and for the amount of answers she has given. It was quite a solid debate, but I thought that the Secretary of State had already given an adequate answer to many questions, even if we disagree on this point; hence I tabled the motion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u265	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the clear answer. I am very aware that every parent who looks, of course, wants to know: how will my file be dealt with as soon as possible in the near future? A debate that is always about the general rules and never about your personal situation, probably always gives a very unsatisfactory feeling. I welcome the answer to my question about what I call "the benefit of the doubt." Parents must of course make something plausible, but we are doing it completely the other way around compared to the last time. If it seems reasonable enough that it is good, we just assume that it is good and people get the benefit of the doubt. I have submitted Mrs Leijten's motion on the draft/great debt, along with almost all those present in this Chamber, I believe. After all, people have the right to know why they have been labeled so heavily. I had prepared a motion on the Social Affairs investigation, but I already received a commitment from this Secretary of State and I await the debate. It is quite clear that, as soon as it becomes clear that there has been ethnic profiling and that people have been disadvantaged by being on a blacklist, the State Secretary considers that the current arrangements already give the current arrangements ample scope to significantly add to the amounts paid to do justice to what has happened. I think it's good to notice. Of course, we all hope that this has not happened or as little as possible, but we are all looking forward to the ongoing investigations in this respect. Mr. Chairman. Then it is up to this Chamber to deal with the bill with great speed, so that it can go into effect on 1 July, and it can also deal with the people who are victims of the harshness of the scheme, including a safety net for people who also have additional damage, for example because they have had to sell their house. I hope, with colleagues, that we can deal with this very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u267	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u268	Thank you, and thank you for probably the most substantive debate I have ever had with a Secretary of State who came to the Chamber for the first time. Mr. Chairman. A number of points are open. I just called the word "gooseboards." I'm afraid that's what we'll come up with. I would have liked it to be a linear process around the question: how are we going to solve it? But if it turns out that people in FSV were prevented and that they were opposed, then we'll come back here and see what they're compensated for for. If the state's attorney's office condemns the tax authorities, there's gonna be some serious damages claims from all these parents. We can see that now. I haven't seen in the world that a government accuses its own tax administration of hoarding. That's debt slavery, debt slavery in the Netherlands in 2020. If intent/great debt has been used against it and if the Tax Administration cannot prove it, we are happy again on the subject "begin." Otherwise, we can't look these parents in the eye. So I'm very curious to receive that flowchart for Thursday, so we can take it with us in the preparation. Mr. Chairman. Thanks for getting the documents. In answer 15 there were five documents. The concept note of the DG Tax Administration was on the one hand a personal policy idea and on the other hand we were allowed to know the whole. It can't be both true. So just think about why you wouldn't want to give it to the Chamber. The other four are the document on the common thread, made for the Secretary of State, a note dated 20 November, a note dated 2 December and one for Question Time in January. We would like to see these documents, as would the underlying documents on the timeline. For I await with great sorrow the timeline, which also states what the ministerial committee has decided and said. If we can't, I wonder if we live in a democracy, because then I can't control what decisions the government makes. Mr. Chairman. I am about to wait with great tension to see whether parents are entitled to compensation for the fact that their pieces are simply not delivered. How is it that these files are not there when they have submitted a question on the basis of the GDPR?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u269	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. I now give the floor to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Much of the debate focused on the question of which people and groups are entitled to compensation and which are not. I must say that I did not expect this in advance when I started this debate, but there was a great deal of fog. The Secretary of State has not been able to properly explain the cases in which people receive compensation and not compensation. I know it's complicated, but I find it disappointing. This must also be difficult for the parents to accept. However, I welcome the commitment that this flowchart will be implemented as soon as possible. We're gonna do the law thing real quick, too. Then it must be perfectly clear, with perhaps after that the investigations of the Personal Data Authority, for example, and a blacklist. Mr. Chairman. The other point I made in this debate was political responsibility. After all the investigations that we have and all the investigations that are to be carried out, the responsibility of the directors involved and the top officials who have played a role in this process has been very limited. I find that difficult. I believe that politics should also show itself a mirror. That is why I made that speech in the autumn and also today in the first term. The motion I tabled earlier, I mistakenly allowed it to go away. That's why I'm filing it again. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that, following the childcare allowance affair, there should be a parliamentary interrogation in which senior officials and relevant directors are heard, in particular with regard to the role of the Chamber and the Cabinet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-646]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u271	I also wish the Secretary of State every success in carrying out the compensation and doing justice to the people and the victims of this affair. I know it's complicated, but it has to be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u272	I fully agree with Mr Snels that the House is in the process of taking a parliamentary step. But doesn't Mr Snels fear enormous amnesia among the directors involved if we can't claim documents and simply don't have them? In other words, doesn't he fear that we're standing empty-handed while an entire circus is being rigged?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u273	Well, the big advantage... Moreover, I am not necessarily opposed to Mrs Leijten's commitment to the idea that there may eventually have to be a parliamentary inquiry. But that parliamentary interrogation should be quick, quick and short. This really needs to address the political responsibility of the Chamber and the directors. That's all I care about. Then we can really hear the people involved under oath. You know, I'd like to hear it myself from all those executives and all those top officials at the Treasury and SZW. What exactly happened? What responsibility did they have? What orders did they give? All this is not clear from all these investigations. Of course, a lot of documents keep coming up every time. That's still ongoing business. Among other things, I would like to know exactly what has happened and what has been decided in that ministerial committee on fraud. A parliamentary interrogation at first might eventually be a prelude, later in the future, to a full-blown parliamentary survey. But I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u274	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u275	I think we really should take this step now, in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u276	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u277	Apart from what happened at the Tax Office, this affair also exposes that administratively The Hague, which supposedly conducts external investigations, does critical external investigations, indeed always leaves people comfortable in positions and that it never really goes to political responsibility. So I very much agree that this is what we are looking for. Well, then let's find a way that interrogation might be a way of getting rid of that survey. Today, the trade unions advocated a parliamentary inquiry into this supplementing affair. I think we should just decide that, but we're going to vote on your motions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u278	Thank you. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u279	Because I want to take every proposal a colleague makes seriously, I'm going to interrupt. I myself was chairman of the first interrogation committee. I know that Mr Snels knows that in fact he needs such research documents, if you want to hear people about what, when and what letter. One of the aspects of an interrogation is that you cannot claim it. So, frankly, I think it is a very strange tool for the objective. A second problem at the moment is that if you appear before such a committee under oath as a ruler, former ruler or civil servant, that cannot be used again in a criminal case that has just begun. The state's attorney's office has just been put to work. So I really wonder how serious and thoughtful this proposal from GroenLinks is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u280	We're there ourselves. If this proposal gets a majority, then we can decide how we want to shape it. Then we can prevent a collusion with the state's attorney's office. I think the D.A.'s office is gonna be for a long time. That is why I propose that we do this as soon as possible. To be honest, I am really sorry that we are not getting the political responsibility out of our hands. I would now like to hear and ask the leaders and senior officials involved, the sg's and the dg's, that level. What I see so far in all the investigations, in all the information that comes out, in all the lyrics to the media and also leaned towards MPs: it is shoving off. It's shuffling behavior. It's protecting each other's positions. I am sick and tired of it, and I think that the Chamber itself should now investigate, take a step itself. I really think we owe it to the parents. We can't push everything back again and do the next investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u281	Finally, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u282	I think that we owe it to parents to stand up for them, to arrange compensation and to use today's debate for that too. I think that if we as a parliament use an instrument, we should keep it whole. I'm really afraid that if you... I myself was chairman; Mrs Leijten was a member of and also Mr Van der Lee on behalf of GroenLinks. This study, precisely on the question of political responsibility, cannot be without asking for documents. If you wanted to, Mrs Leijten's proposal would be the way forward. And then this is just a political shit to get attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u283	I really hope that I will be able to discuss the implementation of these motions with all the groups in this Chamber. Of course I'm already behind the scenes working on that consultation. But if the Labour Party wants to vote against it, that is fine as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u284	Thank you. Mr Van Otterloo now has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for her efforts to get out of the swamp, as I still do. But the quicksand is still heavily present. Because we have to do it with a lot of missing documents, which keep coming up again and again. I understand the debate on the parliamentary questioning. Mr Snels did not have to table his motion on this, because I have already tabled one on 4 December, which is still alive, if I may put it that way. I brought that motion. So I'm not going to retable it now. We all struggle with the same question: how do we get the bottom stone in this story and what lessons can we draw from it? But today it is also about finding a solution for the victims as soon as possible. We will try to take really big steps next week. But I hope that people at home have understood that we are very committed to the fact that it is about more than one small club that has been victimized, that it is about a lot more people and that it must also be seen in a transferable sense, namely as a difference in power between a large service and small people. A difference in power that does not exist with large companies and the Tax Administration, but with small people. In this respect, this debate may be a turning point. Mr. Chairman. We are in favour of any constructive proposal that will enable us to learn more from it, so that we do not just stop the gaps that have arisen now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u286	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr... Let's see. I don't see Mr Van Raan. Then I'll go to Mrs. Lodder's on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u287	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Secretary of State very much for this first real debate with her in the House of Representatives. I think we've had a big debate together. I thank her for the answers and the commitments. I'll come back to that in a minute. Mr. Chairman. I started this debate with the description of the feeling of a ride in a roller coaster, in which you take that loop over and over again. And the moment you think you're at peace, you'll be launched again. Parents should feel this way about the child care allowance. This debate, as well as the coverage of the past few days, will have given many parents that feeling again. I indicated that it was time for the parents, and I think that the letter that was central to this debate should mark that time for the parents. I've been given a number of commitments. Thank you for that. At least that applies to the flowchart. I think that is very important, so that we in the Chamber can know how requests and questions from parents are handled and how incomplete files are handled, as colleagues have pointed out, but it is particularly important for parents. I would like to thank you for your commitment to the discussion with the CAF 11 parents, and certainly for the information that has been promised to the entire CAF 11 group. I hope that they can get a glimmer of hope out of that, but perhaps also a compensation for further damage. Mr. Chairman. I have two more questions to answer. I asked a question about the supplement scheme and the investigation. So I hope the Secretary of State will go into that in the second term. Then I don't have to repeat the question. I see her nodding. My question is also whether the perspective of action regarding individual officials in the context of unlawful acts has been discussed with the predecessor of this Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. It's time for the parents. That is our responsibility, so I wish the Secretary of State every success in carrying out at least the most important steps we need to take now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u288	Thank you, Mrs Lodders. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen has the floor on behalf of the Krol/van Kooten-Arissen Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u289	Thank you, Mr President. I have one motion that I'm going to read to you soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that reports of wrongdoing by whistleblower Pierre Niessen are currently being investigated and limited in the investigation of Research Office Integrity Finance;]] [[noting that these abuses are related to the other abuses in the CAF, non-CAF and outside CAF files;]] [[noting that other reports against the senior officials concerned have also been received by the Tax Administration;]] [[Calls on the Government to include reports similar to those of whistleblower Pierre Niessen, such as the González Pérez reports on behalf of its clients and the reports of abuses by all citizens against the senior officials concerned, in the external investigation;]] [[invites the Government to send an interim report to the Chamber on the investigation of these abuses and relevant developments in this investigation by 1 September 2020 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-647]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u290	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u291	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to go through the questions and motions per speaker. I'll start with Mrs Leijten. She asked why we do not want to reverse the burden of proof in the context of the qualification OGS, either set-up/great debt. I would like to say two things about that. Firstly, we do not want to tell parents that they have to prove or prove that they have done something wrong. If they feel they've been mistreated, then we're going to investigate with them what happened. We want to go far in there. I have already said something about this in relation to Mr Van Weyenberg's questions. With regard to the files: if it is no longer in our documents or if parents no longer have their data, we will look for information from banks or childcare organisations, for example. We're also gonna look generously, because we think it's important that parents get the benefit of the doubt if they're in doubt. But it can also, of course, be that it is not plausible to suggest that there has been wrongdoing. Then the ultimate conclusion may be that a parent doesn't get compensation. But we are going to do everything we can to ensure that the information comes out. In addition, we look generously. That is what the burden of proof is. You also asked in the context of OGS: how does that work with the compensation? As mentioned earlier, OGS will no longer play a role in the future, because from now on we are giving everyone a personal payment arrangement. In the past we have indeed given that qualification. We also include them in the evaluation of the parents' files. This does not automatically mean that someone with an OGS qualification gets compensation, because it can sometimes have happened rightfully. But if it was wrong, if it was part of that biased treatment that we talked about earlier, where parents did not get a fair chance to argue their case, then the compensation scheme obviously fits. That therefore fits in with the customization that we want to set up for this particular scheme. That is actually what I would like to say. Set-up/greater debt is not automatic, but it plays an important role in the assessment of the files.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u292	Mrs Leijten, I give you the opportunity to put a short question. We have been discussing this all day today, so it must come to a conclusion at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u293	I understand that, but I welcome the movement because Donner hasn't investigated intent/great debt at all. Now I have concrete contact with parents. The Secretary of State has that, of course, too, but it is said to a parent who has been judged by the committee: you meet three of Donner's five points, there is probably a set-up/great debt, but we can't find that anymore. We don't know what's going on with your OGS, but since you passed that bar, you won't be eligible for compensation anyway. We're gonna talk about this later, and the Secretary of State is gonna send you another flowchart. But I would like it to be clear how people who may not be able to meet Donner's list may be entitled to compensation. We all believe that this situation has suffered a great deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u294	We're going to take into the flowchart how that plays a role. It will usually be clear that someone has been blamed on purpose. We can usually find that fact, the reason why sometimes we can't. That is not something parents should prove; it does not fit in with our approach. I shall then turn to the questions that have been asked by Mr Omtzigt and those that are still open. One of them is about the files and the GDPR. The right of access within the meaning of the GDPR does not entitle you to a copy of the entire file, but you can make a request. Based on the GDPR Implementing Act, you can make a request to get that information. There is also an involvement of the General Administrative Law Act, which in some cases also entitles to compensation if the administrative body does not take a decision in time. In this case of requesting files, I indicated that we are struggling: we would very much like to give those files to the parents, but it takes an incredible amount of time to put them together. We think it is important that parents get the information they want and which is also important for the evaluation of the files. We will also let the Ombudsman take a good look at this. You indicate that if the Tax Administration is not in time to provide that information, then there may be compensation. That is also true; then the parent must fail us and so on and so forth. There is a possibility of compensation, but we sincerely hope that with the route we have found together with the Ombudsman, we will be able to help parents without entering this route.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u295	Also for you, Mr. Ommzigt, is a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u296	This had remained in the first term. With this, the Secretary of State withdraws her reply from last night. It said there was no right to compensation. I thank her very much, and I hope to get that on paper. I hope these parents do not have to fail us and go to court, but with more than three months' delay you should be paid the compensation automatically. I would like an answer to that, or should the parents fail the Tax Office? That is possible; that is not at all bad and the only way a number of people can get their compensation from the Tax Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u297	Once again, we have set up a process, and I repeat myself once again, and I hope that we will not get into that position. We want to give the parents the information and we want it as soon as possible. But there is indeed a possibility of compensation if that were not to happen for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u298	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u299	Mr President, it is very simple. It had to be delivered within a month. The law provides for a possibility to delay this by three months, as well as the right to compensation. Most of these parents have been waiting for nine months. So all these parents are entitled to compensation for a late decision. I think it is so important for these parents because this is the tenth time for them that the Tax Administration has violated the General Law on Administrative Law. I hope that you will grant this right to these parents automatically, because I think they will be entitled to it sometime. I will also ask Parliament questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u300	I like to wait for those questions. Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Lodders asked if the previous Secretary of State was aware of agreements between the previous Dg Tax Office and those three employees. I checked that and did not find a note showing that the Secretary of State was informed or that those appointments were described.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u301	Any more questions from Mr Omtzigt? I'm looking at the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u302	Yes, I'm sorry, I thought you were looking at Mr. Ommzigt. I come to Mr Omtzigt's request about information about e-mails or the terms and conditions that employees have laid down for participation in the ADR study. I have promised you that a letter has also been sent to you during our debate just now that you will receive that note. I want to do that very carefully. I have indicated this before, because I want to ensure that there is no information that is not intended to be made public. That's mainly about names. I will also look at the e-mail exchange that Mr Omtzigt is asking for and see which parts of it can be shared. Then Mr Omtzig asked what was discussed about the CAF approach in the Ministerial Committee on Fraud. The answer to that is as follows. Indeed, the CAF team is mentioned in a number of reports on the state-wide approach to fraud. I understand that these passages have never been discussed in the ministerial committee. In the debate with your Chamber on 21 January last, the Prime Minister indicated that these reports have been reviewed and that they have not been discussed. You then asked whether I could share those reports with the Chamber. No, I can't, because the ministerial committee is a sub-committee of the Council of Ministers and these reports are state secret. Then I turn to Mrs Lodder's question on two issues, one of which I forgot to mention in my first term. That was about the research that we are doing on the changes in the childcare allowance system, in the broad sense, by the way, because it comes from an ibo study that deals with all allowances. It is a document made by the Cabinet on the basis of cooperation with all the supplement departments and the Ministry of Finance. Your specific question was to look specifically at the issue of non-public funding in the examination of improvements or changes to the childcare allowance scheme. That is what it says, but you also wanted to see the opposite of it, namely whether there are other forms of funding for childcare. And you asked the supplementary question as to whether there are also possibilities to look at the surcharges in a very different way, for example by including them in the taxes. We will take this whole system into account in the ibo investigation we are returning to with the cabinet. We will ensure that the themes you have indicated will be included in that investigation. So I can promise you that. The question you further asked about the individual officials is answered in the letter that came in during your second term. It contains the document on individual officials. If it's all right, this answers your question. Then I will continue with Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's question about the involvement and the timeline surrounding the involvement of the country's attorney in the declaration. The state's attorney did indeed help with the report. He advised on its signature. He did not advise on whether to report it or not, because that was clear to us a long time ago and we decided on the basis of Mr Biemond's opinion. The timeline is as follows. On 15 May 2020, the Ministry received the first and only draft advice. I have been informed about the content of this. I did not receive this draft opinion, but I was informed about the content. I have been told that I have a duty to report two suspicions of criminal offences. It was therefore clear that the decision should be taken by me and my colleague, because it is a legal obligation to make a declaration. It was then asked whether it was not self-evident that the Prime Minister should be involved. That makes sense, and that's what happened. The Prime Minister and the Ministry have been informed about the scope of the draft opinion and the decision taken by the Secretary of State for Taxation and Tax Administration, Mr Vijlbrief, and I to report it. On Friday 15 May 2020, the lawyer was asked to advise us in the process of filing the complaint. He helped us do that. I sent that report along with the letter of approval you received, not only the recommendation but also the declaration. The content of the declaration or otherwise is not agreed with the Ministry of AZ. I received the final opinion on 19 May 2020. I filed a report and sent the letter to the Chamber. Then we discussed this issue here in Question Time. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen also raised a question about what is being done with citizens' complaints. The answer here is a little broader. Within the Tax Administration we have specific teams to deal with citizens' complaints. I will come to the question in your motion in a moment and I will say a little more about it. I think I've dealt with the outstanding questions. I'm going to move on to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u303	A brief question from Mr Omtzigt before we go to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u304	I had indicated that a number of pieces were missing. We got a flowchart of one page as a factsheet. Then came the fact sheet of the ADR and there were totally new things that we thought were reasonably relevant. Now we have them readable, for which we thank you. We would still like you to click on the underlying documents. That is not possible in this document, so I hope that will be taken care of. But I had asked if this is the complete schedule, because there are documents every time about communications with directors or assignments given.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u305	This is the complete schedule as we have it now. This contains all the facts and data that are known to us today. For example, you asked if there was anything discussed in that ministerial committee. I just answered that. This does not fit in with the timetable, at least there is no reason to include it in the timetable. With this timetable, you have the information we currently have on the basis of what has happened so far on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u306	So there are no memos that have been submitted to ministers or secretaries of state during this period of time, but which are not included in this schedule?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u307	Well, that's a bit too general a question, because memos go to State Secretary every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u308	About this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u309	As far as I know, this is the complete overview. I can check it again for you, but as far as I know, this is the complete overview of all the information. If I find anything else, I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u310	I'd love to. I assume that in two weeks' time I will hear whether there are any missing documents, in particular documents that have been sent to directors dealing with the CAF or any other recovery over the entire period under consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u311	I will ensure that, if that is the case, there is an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u312	Mrs Leijten, a brief question as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u313	In any case, I do not see in that schedule the official advice on possible criminalisation, which you have just sent to us around 5.30 p.m. and which we had asked for. I think it would be good if we had another look at that, because that obviously has a relationship with this case. When it comes to that ministerial committee on fraud, I tabled a motion in this Chamber asking the government to consult with the Chamber on how it can access those documents, because after the evaluation of the parliamentary inquiry, the Chamber considered that it was not up to the government to make anything state secret. Well, I'm still waiting for this motion to be reviewed on 20 February 2020, so that's been a while. I'm not gonna wait any longer. I propose that the motion be put to the vote at the next voting list. Because if the government doesn't come up with a reaction to this, then we in the Chamber should look at how we can get to that documentation. I have heard from several people that they want to do so and talk to the cabinet about this state secret ministerial committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u314	So you're putting this motion to the vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u315	Yes, just for the administration: it concerns the motion in part No. 29 (28362), tabled on 20 February.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u316	Okay. Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u317	In addition to Mrs Leijten and Mr Omtzigt, we have often asked as a Chamber about the ministerial committee and its reports. We're not gonna get one, and we're gonna table a motion on that right now. But if the Secretary of State is going to look at the department for missing pieces in the timeline... Look, this was an underdog. All sub councils are being prepared, including officials. I cannot imagine that this Ministerial Committee on Finance or the Tax Administration has not been prepared by officials with memos for the DGs or the directors. We would also like to have this information, because if it has not been discussed in the ministerial committee, then it has in any case been prepared with perhaps decisions or decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u318	I'll look into that. It was not discussed in the ministerial committee. It may well be that it is not in preparation, but I would like to take a look at that for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u319	Fine. Now the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u320	Then there's the motions. First, the motion in part No. 640 by Mrs Leijten, in which the government is asked to send to the Chamber as soon as possible the investigation into intent/big debt. I find that a little complicated, because there are two things that are going to get mixed up here. We have just briefly discussed the question of how set-up/greater debt plays a role in the assessment of cases. Then it's about individual cases. We will come back to that next week with the flowchart and the treatment of the law. So that's what we're gonna see. The investigation into how someone got that qualification has not yet been completed. This is not so much a question of how individual parents felt, but of how that happened with that intent/great guilt, because we know that a lot of parents, especially because of that qualification, have gotten into extra trouble. We're gonna work on that. If that investigation brings up facts, of course we'd like to do that research, but I find it a little tricky. I would advise against this motion because, as far as I am concerned, this is too complicated a structure in which two things run through each other. You will receive from me the promise that we will of course talk about intent / gross debt in the treatment of an individual case. As I pointed out, at this point in time there is this investigation into intent/great guilt and how it has worked in our ministry and how it has played a role in this supplement problem, but I find it a bit difficult to give this motion the Chamber's judgment. I would therefore advise against this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u321	A brief reaction or comment, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u322	There is, of course, a conviction for set-up/greater debt of the Council of State, which is disproportionate, in April 2019. That was, of course, the decision-making process at the time. That's what I'm talking about, for example, by underlying pieces. The Secretary of State now says here: we do our own research on intent/great debt. I was promised earlier by Donner that it would be taken. That's what Donner said again: I didn't do that. This just says, "Get on with it so we know." You turned it off. Hail for that, because it worked disproportionately. The only thing this motion says is: round it up as soon as possible; share it with the Chamber, but also the underlying documents that have monitored the trial from that conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u323	I now declare that I will do two things. I make sure that we have the discussion about how it has played a role in individual cases. The investigation that's going on right now, I'd like to share it as soon as it's there. I can't share that now. You're asking for the investigation, including the underlying documents, to be sent as soon as possible, but I don't have it yet. As soon as we've done that investigation, I'd like to share it with you. If I give you my word, it might be possible for you to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u324	All right, let's move on. The verdict is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u325	Then I shall go to Mrs Leijten's other motion, the motion in part No. 641, co-signed by many, in which the government is asked to ensure that when dealing with cases in which parents are blamed for intent/big debt, the Tax Administration always makes known what parents are suspected of. I'd really like to do that if we know that, too. In some cases, people have received this qualification and it is not for us to take it back on which it is based. Of course, that plays a role in the individual files, but when we know, we certainly want to share it with parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u326	And what's the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u327	Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u328	Okay. You disagree, Mr. Ommzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u329	I totally agree, but does the government realize what she's saying here? Does the government realize that there are therefore parents who have been given intent/big debts, who have not been admitted to debt relief and could not therefore be released from debt in three years? That means that pay was laid, that cars were impounded, that they went through house expulsions and whatever. And now the government says here: we actually have no idea why it happened to a number of people. That is serious in a rule of law. These people have suffered a punishment that may be worse than a few months in prison. 'Cause then you're off the hook. These people have been hanging on it for ten years, and we can't reconstruct why they got it? Does this mean, when you have such a case where you can't reconstruct it, that this person will immediately be cleared of all his debts, or are we going to look ahead for years and maintain that intent/great debt?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u330	Moreover, I very much agree with you that it is very important that any decision taken by the public authorities in implementation files should be well documented and recorded, so that it can be reconstructed as to how such a decision was made. We all know, both you and I, that in the case of this child care allowance, of course, a great deal has gone wrong. This is one of those elements. It is no longer always good to find out clearly in the documents why people are blamed on purpose. I will make sure that we look at how that plays a role in the assessment of the dossiers. I hope we'll discuss that next week when we discuss the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u331	[[Sentence could not be parsed: Het kan niet zijn "hoe het een rol speelt".]] If someone gets blamed ten years ago and that person has been sent into the woods for ten years and now asks if he can get rid of his debts because he's going crazy, I assume you'll take immediate action. If you can't determine why what happened and that person has asked for it a hundred times, isn't that a solution for that family? Then we're not gonna bully that family for another three or five years, are we? I would like to have a letter on this within a few days, because this is the essence of what went wrong. Those who were not blamed on purpose have gone through a valley, but they were all out within three years. That's when the debts go down and you can move on. This is the toughest category. This is more difficult for many than a prison sentence. These people don't know why that happened. It's Mrs Leijten's motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u332	If it's her motion, why are you interrupting it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u333	Because I'm getting the opportunity from the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u334	Yeah, come on! Then I'll go see Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u335	No, Mr. Chairman. This is the essence of what has gone wrong in the rule of law. These people were blamed ten years ago. Are they done if the government doesn't even know why they got it? Or could you put that in a letter in a week? This is essential for the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u336	Maybe I should say two things about that. I agree with you that this is very serious, that it should not be and that it should always be possible to trace why decisions have been made in dossiers. The fact that this has not been done properly in that case is one of the elements of this dossier. I also admit that it is a very important element. We have stopped the recovery for all those who are guilty of intent, so none of those people currently have to pay on that basis. We have said that we are going to establish the arrangements first, we are going to re-assess your file and then we are going to look at that again. That's what's going on. I do not think I need to send you a letter about that, because that is exactly how it goes. The essence is that next week we are going to indicate how this theme of intent/big debt plays a role in those arrangements that we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u337	Then I'll go see Mrs. Leijten. A quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u338	In an administrative decision about how to deal with people who deliberately/greatly blame things, it says that the Tax Administration should do. That means proof. The internal handshake says you have to document properly. If that documentation is no longer available, then the scheme is now in order for parents to prove it. And that's exactly what's in the reversal we've been talking about all along. I would like the Secretary of State to have a better answer to this in the next debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u339	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u340	Very good. I shall go to Mr Azarkan's motion on item No. 642, which asks for the files requested to be completed and provided as soon as possible to all payment recipients. I just said a little bit more about that. The problem is that putting these files together takes incredibly much time and work, and we would like to do so, but above all we want to ensure that people are helped with specific questions as well and as quickly as possible, if they have them. So we are going to make sure that we approach these parents and ask them exactly what questions they want answers to and what documents they are looking for. We're gonna get to work on that. Once again, the Ombudsman is watching. However, I would like to assure you that I will ensure that there is a planning for the parents who have made a request at the moment, so that it is also clear when the answers to these questions can be given to them. So we're gonna approach these parents. We're gonna ask them exactly what they're looking for. We hope to give the answers as soon as possible, but where parents want to keep getting full files, we are going to make an insightful planning for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u341	And the verdict is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u342	The verdict is that I wish to discourage the motion in this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u343	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u344	I shall now turn to Mr Azarkan's motion on item No. 643, which calls on the government to organise a wide-ranging review in which all government executive services are assessed for professional discrimination. I understand the question Mr. Azarkan is asking. It is, of course, extremely broad and goes a great deal beyond my powers. I must therefore discourage this motion. I would like to refer to the fact that the Ombudsman is currently investigating the same subject. I'm afraid I can't carry out this investigation for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u345	One more motion from Mr Azarkan and then you will have interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u346	That's a motion from the Chamber, so that's what the Chamber itself is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u347	Oh, yeah, that's right. Says it. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u348	However, about the motion in part No. 643. Of course, it's pretty serious what happened. Moreover, the Ombudsman has found that bias, so that sometimes you already have a judgment without knowing the facts and documents until you have taken them, is found in broad sections of the government. Can't the Secretary of State turn it over? It is a request to the government, of which the Secretary of State is a member. The government speaks with one voice. Therefore, I find it a little easy to say: it's complicated, so I won't do anything with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u349	I could pass it on to the Minister of the Interior to see what she could possibly do with it. 'Cause I know exactly what you mean by that, and I get your point. Again, I also think it is very important that the issue of discrimination should not be raised. So I'd like to take it with me to the Home Secretary. Then there's the motion in part No. 645 by Mr Nijboer and Mrs Leijten, who requested that all parents be compensated by 1 September. I indicated earlier in the debate that, although I would very much like to do so, I cannot just live up to that. There are two reasons for this. Based on the facts, the knowledge and the details I already have, I know I have a lot of work to do. We have also indicated that parents still have to be able to report in order, for example, to be eligible for the hardness of the scheme. I would like to give them ample time to do so, so not just to say that they have to report within a week or two weeks. They'll have more time for that. It's also for that reason that I think it's important. I'd like to promise you two things. We make a clear schedule when the parents who are now in the picture are next, when their files are being processed and when they can count on our assessment. I also promised that I would be the first to deal with the most poignant, hardest problems. I would therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u350	The second reason I find a bit of a fallacy. There is no way in this motion that parents lose their rights or that it may take longer. The motion isn't meant to be like that either. On the first thing, we just disagree. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if there is a deadline. Every time it gets difficult, when it gets difficult, when it gets more complex, that date moves up for the parents. If former Secretary of State Snel had said "in 2021 we compensate," we would have sent him home earlier, so to speak. We wouldn't have accepted that. Now the Secretary of State says: 2021 I'm really going to get it. But no one knows that for sure. Is that a hard end date?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u351	You make it look like people will not be compensated until 2021. That's not the point. We are starting to compensate the first parents in July, and we want to deal with as many parents' files as possible as soon as possible and to clarify whether or not to compensate them and, above all, how much it will be. That's what we're gonna do. Based on the numbers we're expecting, we think we're gonna need it this year and next year. But of course we hope to work as soon as possible. What I really think is important is that it is also possible for someone to report to us in August. We also want to be able to treat that case. If someone comes forward in December, too. I think it is a good thing that we look at that planning when we talk about that law next week, because there is something in it about the deadlines. I shall now turn to Mr Snels' motion for a resolution. 646. Well, that's up to your room, of course. I have no judgment on that. I shall go to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's motion on part No. 647. That motion concerns the investigation of Mr Niessen, the whistleblower. I've been asking about that. There has been a discussion between Mr Niessen, Mrs González Pérez and Minister Hoekstra. When it comes to reports that are going on there, we'll be happy to include them in the investigation. With that I would like to give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u352	Is that the case, Mrs Van Kooten? Yeah, she nods.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u353	Then we're through the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u354	Yes, it is. But Mrs Leijten always has something to ask for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u355	To your great pleasure, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to say to your pleasure that I have my first motion, that of item No. 640, actually considered taken over. I call for the inquiry to be sent to the Chamber as soon as possible. The Secretary of State advises against the motion, but does undertake to send the investigation to the Chamber with underlying documents. I'll do some more research on what exactly the investigation is taking place. I consider the motion to be taken over, so I can rescind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u356	You're just pulling your motion to part no. 640 in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u357	The Secretary of State said if you will accept the promise. And this is just the operative part of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u358	It is not intended that everyone should say: I consider my motion to be taken over. I understand you're simply withdrawing the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u359	Yeah, yeah. The commitment has been made. I just find it remarkable that the motion was dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u360	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u361	I had one more thing. In my first term, I have said all the time that Donner's advice is actually quicksand. The Secretary of State did not deal with this in the first term, nor did he deal with it in the second. I'm really sorry about that. I will certainly raise it with the legislative proposal, because then we may have a little more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u362	You've had all day, Mrs. Leijten. I assume you're satisfied with the way it went.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-5.u363	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her input and answers. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament and all the parents who have followed this debate or perhaps look back later or read the Acts. I cannot tell them what the outcome of the debate is. That's up to the MPs. I hope that the parents have been able to see that MPs have highlighted their problems and that they have stood up for their interests. I am very pleased that we have this opportunity here, despite the corona measures. It is a good thing that Members of the European Parliament have performed their elected and controlling function well. Thanks again. Secretary of State, it was your first appearance. That's great. Next week we will vote on the motions.
