ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on developments in the coronavirus. Before I give the floor to the first speaker, I would like to make a few household announcements. As you've seen, we only have two interrupting microphones at the ends. The microphones are no longer operated with a button, but with a foot pedal. It is also important that you do not stand behind each other at the interrupt microphone. If you stand by your own chair, I'll just give you the word. I'll keep an eye on it all. It's also important to keep your distance. That is what we agreed on last time, and that is still the case. Soon, when filing motions, it's also important to keep your distance. The motions are not collected by the messenger, but are deposited on the rostrum. They are then copied and a set of copied motions is deposited. You're supposed to bring one by one of those sets of motions. We'll take our time. No notes are handed over either. They're placed somewhere on a corner of the desk. So much for the household announcements. We shall now proceed to the debate. Speaking time is four minutes. This time the list of speakers is based on group size, so I am giving the floor to Mr Veldman on behalf of the VVD. After each speaker, the chair is cleaned. Before I give the floor to Mr Veldman, another important communication on the interruptions. We have agreed that six questions can be asked per spokesperson. The questions must be brief. If you don't have anything to ask, of course it's okay. Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The approach to the corona crisis, the protection of our vulnerable and the prevention of a peak in the healthcare burden stand or fall when everyone in the Netherlands complies with the guidelines. That starts with keeping a distance from each other, at least a foot and a half. It is good that in almost every media intervention of the cabinet distance has been appointed time and time again. But last night I saw Nieuwsuur and I learned that 40% of Dutch people have the idea that keeping distance doesn't work. Then I ask the cabinet to put a little more communication on top of it. Unfortunately, not everyone is aware of the importance of keeping away. Mr. Chairman. The World Health Organisation calls for testing. Of course, this can only be done if sufficient test material is available. RIVM indicates that it is not enough to test everyone in the Netherlands and that there are shortages worldwide. So without tests, the number of infections detected doesn't tell us that much. The number of hospitalisations and the number of people in intensive care are therefore the best measure, according to Van Dissel of RIVM. We see that the occupation on the ICUs has risen considerably. Hospitals in the south of the country are filling up. Patients are spread across hospitals elsewhere in the country. With man and power is working on enlargement. This and next week are going to be very exciting, said ic-arts Gommers yesterday. Mr. Chairman. Can the Cabinet state what is going on with the expansion of ic capacity? Can we handle the expected peak in April and May? What's going on with the expansion of the ventilation equipment? And is the American government actually in danger of obtaining equipment from Philips, which is being manufactured in Pittsburgh? And if so, what steps does the Cabinet take to prevent this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u3	Before you proceed, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u4	The VVD rightly says: a good approach falls or stands with being able to test. The Netherlands has too few tests and too little capacity. Now we read this morning that one of the major pharmaceuticals is not prepared to share the recipes for test fluids. Does the VVD agree with the Labour Party that under these circumstances it is time to use all means to share this recipe in the public interest for public health, including compulsory licensing on the basis of a decision of the Minister of Economic Affairs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u5	I read that message this morning. In the meantime, I have also read a message from manufacturer Roche, which states that the production is up and running again, so that a lot is being delivered again, and that another company makes similar products that can be used for the tests, but that this has not yet been seen and understood by all laboratories. So yes, I agree with you that we must make maximum efforts to ensure that there is sufficient test material available. The same applies to this company. When I read the company's statement, I assume that people are working and also indicate what other material can be used to carry out these tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u6	Very sharp, though. Does the VVD agree with us that, in view of the public health crisis, the cabinet should be prepared to use all means, including compulsory licences, to force that we can quickly test the Dutch population, the health professionals, the general practitioners, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u7	We have to do what we have to do. If final steps are needed, the cabinet must do so. But I see that the company you're talking about this morning has made a statement about the fact that there is now another company making similar products that can be used for those tests. If that helps, that's good. If that's not enough, then we have to do what we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u8	I hear the colleague of the VVD, he had a good point there, referring to the Nieuwsuur of last night, which indeed showed that 40% of the people do not believe in that 1.5 meter distance. Fortunately, many people do, but also a lot of people do not, or they are not aware of it. Of course, we can't afford that right now. We know that the virus is spreading through interhuman contact and close to each other. You can't do that right now. My question to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is this: will there not be a moment when you hear these figures? Again, that's not because we like it, because the PVV doesn't like it either. But if people aren't aware of it and soon it turns out that they might not do it, shouldn't they stay at home for a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u9	I think that step has been taken since last Monday. The call to stay home if you can stay home was already there. The call to stay home when you're sick was already there. That is supplemented by: if a family member is ill, stay home. In the meantime, measures have been announced that mayors in their municipalities can implement with an emergency regulation, namely that if it does not work, so if people do not comply with the agreements, they can be fined and called upon. Mayors can also shut down certain places. Yesterday we saw this with the mayor in The Hague, who closed the market in The Hague because people did not follow the order to keep 1.5 meters away. Those additional measures have therefore been taken. I agree with Mr Wilders that we all have the task of addressing the people who do not adhere to it and keeping each other sharp, in order to ensure that everyone complies with the directives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u10	I have a problem, because Mr Azarkan is almost always standing. So I don't know if you want to interrupt. No? Then sit down. Proceed, Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr. Chairman. As I said, the additional measures announced on Monday are again far-reaching, unfortunately, also because we saw last weekend that not everyone keeps to the 1.5 meter distance. As I said, also towards Mr Wilders, mayors are now given the opportunity to act. Are all these emergency regulations already in force in all the municipalities? Have all the mayors already declared that emergency regulation to be working? Mr. Chairman. Then the school exams. The final exams do not go through and the school exams do, but many schools have questions about how they can and should do this in a responsible way. Schools need clarity. It's not enough right now. So the question to the cabinet is: where can they, and also the final students, rightly ask questions? Mr. Chairman. I'm always hammering on clear communication. Unfortunately, there is a great deal of uncertainty about the additional measures announced on Monday. Can the cabinet here today explain clearly and clearly what is happening with all the meetings and events? Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis is hitting our economy hard and hard. Probably everyone saw the CPB figures this morning: in the worst scenario, it is a 7.7% contraction. Entrepreneurs suffer damage andzzp'ers are out of work. The package of support measures is massive, but that too stands and falls mainly at the speed of their implementation and roll-out. I realize that we may be asking for the impossible, but these particular circumstances do require it. Mr. Chairman. Everyone is looking forward to a vaccine. Here, too, we may be asking for the impossible. In any case, it calls for speed in terms of research. At this rate, our own researchers are hampered by additional rules for doing clinical research that are not made in other European countries. Why, I'll ask the cabinet. Is this not the time to delete additional Dutch rules on top of European directives immediately? Is the cabinet prepared to align itself with our neighbouring countries, so that our researchers do not have to deviate abroad for clinical trials? Mr President, I will conclude. The next two weeks will be exciting weeks. I wish all those who work in intensive care and in hospitals very much success and strength. I particularly wish all patients a good recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u12	Yesterday in the hearing, Mr Gommers indicated that he lacked central control and control, especially in the distribution of capacity. He himself and hospitals in Brabant sometimes have to fight others who have the capacity, but who indicate that the first aid is full. How does Mr Veldman feel about the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u13	That observation was indeed made. It is, of course, very annoying that not everyone, also elsewhere in the country, is aware that something is really going on. The good news is, as Mr Gommers said yesterday, that a national coordination centre has now been set up, operating from the Erasmus MC. That's where a little more executive surgery is going to be done. The challenge is of course also, and Mr Gommers said so yesterday, that if you want to let go of some sort of military approach and compare it with defence, there will normally be a number of weeks to start such an operation, while it now has to be done in a number of days. So there will be run-off problems. I regret that. The point is that action is now being taken as quickly as possible. I assume, and I think that is a good question for the Minister of Health, that this national coordination centre is now working and up and running, and that there is therefore also a management role in this regard. So I assume that when patients have to be moved from Brabant or Limburg, that happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u14	I welcome this observation. For us as a society, it is simply not acceptable that there is hard work in Brabant and also in Limburg and everything is required of the capacity, while missing that central direction cannot provide support for others. I therefore welcome the comment. I also appeal to the Cabinet to support this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Mr. Veldman. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u16	Madam President. The Corona virus is firmly in the hands of the Netherlands, despite the unbridled commitment of all those heroes to care. RIVM says the number of new hospital admissions seems to be flattening. If that is true, then that is of course good news, but for the time being the number of corona patients is growing as never before. We also knew yesterday the highest number of corona-dead patients in one day. By now, 356 people have died of corona. That's a doubling in three days. That's terrible. We all sympathize with the families of all those who died. Mr. Chairman. I'm really worried about where this is gonna end. I regret that the cabinet has taken far too late measures and sometimes only under pressure from society, such as the closure of schools. It took weeks before the policy was finally strengthened from "no more shaking hands" to "a co-training ban with fines." It was action in slow motion. That hesitation, that waste of time, has caused unnecessary more people to be infected and that Dutch people thought for too long: well, it will not be so bad with that virus. The package presented on Monday is fortunately a lot firmer than the "no shaking hands" of two weeks ago, but it is also complicated and difficult to enforce. I really do not understand why the clear and understandable line'stay at home for the time being' has not been chosen, which will temporarily limit the number of contact moments between people. If the cabinet had done so immediately, we would now have fewer infections and less sick people, and it would have been less pressure on the intensive care departments. Mr. Chairman. Not everyone likes to hear it, but that doesn't make it any less true: we are now paying the price for years of cuts in healthcare. In recent years, several hospitals, including those with ic capacity, have been closed, such as the Slotervaart Hospital. Seventy-five thousand care workers have been thrown out. Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands we now have 1,150 ic-beds with ventilators. On April 1st, in six days, we're gonna need 1,600 Ice Beds with ventilators. There aren't any. This means that people with a chance of survival, who otherwise could have been helped, could die. That cannot and must not happen. I ask the Prime Minister: how are you going to prevent that? And if it gets worse, and it gets worse, because the peak at the end of May is yet to come, how are you going to fix it? How are you going to prevent those great ic-doctors and other caregivers with a code black from immediately facing the heavy task of selecting who gets to go to the ic and who doesn't, and therefore will die? How can we help these doctors and other healthcare professionals?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u17	The concerns expressed by Mr Wilders are, in my opinion, the concerns we all have: can we get the extra burden on the intensive care that is now coming together? Enlargement is under way. That's good. But I think it is also good to keep to the facts in this debate. The facts are as follows. In 2010 we spent 23 billion on medical-specialist care in the Netherlands. Now, in 2020, we are spending EUR 26 billion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u18	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u19	The question to Mr Wilders is whether he wants to stick to the facts and whether he does not want to spread the word that we have cut back on care and that we have cut back on hospitals, because that is not true. We didn't. That is not the case. So it's good to stick to the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u20	We almost ruined the care. The opposite of what the colleague of the VVD says is the case. Whether it's about the IJsselmeer hospitals or about the Slotervaart hospital, we've closed down hospitals. We also fired tens of thousands, 75,000 people who worked there, up to the age of the elderly. If we had not done so, we would now have had a lot less problems in that regard. Compare it with other countries. Look at Germany. We have just over 1,000 ICUs with ventilation equipment, with a population of 17 million inhabitants. Germany has 5 times more inhabitants, namely 80 or 85 million, but 25 times more ic-rooms, beds and equipment. It's about 25,000 devices! They have more hospital beds. As the Netherlands, we are one of the lowest in Europe in terms of number of hospital beds. The number of hospital beds has fallen. And finally, if you look at the budget for health, then this cabinet intends to take care of it on page 13 of the report. You will find it on page 13 of the report to ensure that nursing care and hospital care also take place in the coming years, with the idea that people should have more care at home, that even more hospitals and nursing homes should be removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u21	Here too, it is good to stick to the facts. The facts are as follows. Indeed, we have fewer hospital beds than a few decades ago. That has everything to do with the fact that we have better and better care. Better care, which means that people no longer need to be in hospital, but can be treated outpatiently or by day care. Better care because, for example, people who have a heart attack can now go home after a few days, while you were in hospital 20 or 30 years ago for a month. Better care, that is what we have in the Netherlands and what we are working on. What Mr Wilders is saying here is a not true and b is, in my opinion, a blow to the face of all those people who work so hard in healthcare.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u22	It's totally true what I'm saying. You're making it political right now, not me, but in recent years your party has ruined care in some kind of care-hate. You've fired tens of thousands of people in the care that we've stood up for, like some other parties. We wanted to make sure those people didn't get fired. We have resisted this with our hands and arms, and my colleague, Mr Agema, has done so here about every day against the closure of hospitals, hospitals with ic-capacity. Whether in Flevoland or in Amsterdam, people have less rapid care in many places. This blow is due to the austerity drive, the reorganisation drive of a party like the VVD. I wish you hadn't. You wouldn't have to be on that interrupting microphone right now. Mr President, I shall continue. We have 1,000 Ic beds, but we need 1,600 on April 1st. We also need to test more. Measuring is knowing. Singapore and South Korea have achieved great results. In Austria we want to test all inhabitants to know how many people are sick or immune. Why don't we do the same? Mr. Chairman. I find it really indigestible and unacceptable that our people in hospitals, in home care, in community care, in disability care and in nursing homes still have insufficient protective equipment such as mouth caps. Isn't it sad that care workers themselves get infected and sick because they can't protect themselves? They're people who are always there for us and for you, Mr. Rutte. It's your duty to help those people. Mr President, I will conclude. The Netherlands is in pain. A lot of people are insecure, scared, worried about their loved ones. The virus has largely taken over our normal lives, but we are a strong people and we never give up knowing that sooner or later we will also overcome this. Good luck, Holland! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u23	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mr. Chairman. We all know that feeling that you wake up from a nightmare and that in seconds until you realize it was just a dream. These days, these weeks, I have the exact opposite feeling. Every morning the realization that the nightmare has become reality: people who are currently fighting for their lives, sick people who are at home in uncertainty with every cough, elderly people who have been cut off from their loved ones for safety reasons who make life valuable for them, many in hospitals, in education, in childcare, in home care, in supermarkets, who are currently taking care of the necessary care and contributing to keeping the country running a bit, parents struggling with homework and at the same time teaching at home, caregivers who are getting more and more heavily. It's an uncertain, difficult time for all of us. And in difficult times, communication from the government is essential. That can and must be done better. Last Monday's tightening up was necessary and good, but the presentation also led to uncertainty. I would like to ask the cabinet to do presentations with fewer people and, if necessary, with a little more preparation time. Because if you're there, the message has to be true and clear, and then only a few hours later. Yesterday at the technical briefing, RIVM was for the first time cautiously positive about flattening the number of patients being admitted. At the same time, Mr Gommers expressed very serious concerns about the imminent shortage of ic-spots. He was actually begging for more national military direction. Can the Minister indicate how he's going to enforce that in the next few days? How is it going to be ensured that we quickly make more ventilators ourselves in the Netherlands? Is the message that ic-doctors themselves are also considering using more people on one ventilator as an emergency measure? Then there's the lack of test material. The two previous speakers also spoke about this. We will soon have to produce ourselves what is necessary. I understand that the Minister has appointed a special envoy, Mr Feike Sijbesma, to quickly scale up that own production of both molecular and serological tests. What exactly is this envoy going to do? At what time can this be expected to happen? Does the Minister intend to make use of the possibility of a compulsory licence? In the letter that came last night, I read that we now have a large number of rapid tests. When is the reliability of this test clear? And can they be deployed? These tests are not only crucial in the fight against the disease now, but also in the future when it comes to getting our economy back to work in a timely and safe manner. Then the development of a vaccine; colleague Veldman of the VVD has already mentioned it. Surely it can't be that it's moving to America, because in the Netherlands we have tighter environmental rules than all the countries around us? I'd like a reaction to that. Mr President, I will conclude. These are difficult times, but at the same time we also see tens of thousands of people volunteering spontaneously as a care worker or volunteering for the Red Cross. We all see people on the streets who are patiently giving each other a more generous job and greeting each other kindly again, because we see each other again in this time of crisis. In these difficult times, therefore, the best in people also comes out and we can see a warmer society. That's something we need to hold on to, even if we've been through this crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u25	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. Mr Jetten has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to join in Mr Heerma's wonderful introduction. These are very difficult times and my thoughts are first and foremost on all the patients and relatives of already deceased persons and, above all, on all those people who are now working day and night in care to protect as many people as possible. In particular, I am thinking of the village of my youth, Uden, where in the Bernhoven hospital there is a really terrible situation going on. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister assured the Netherlands last week that the cabinet does not follow the strategy of group immunity. Since then, the cabinet has drawn up rules that I can rhyme with the ultimate goal of protecting the lives of all people in the Netherlands. There is now a cautious signal that the growth of the number of infections will fade, but dozens of patients are still added every day. That's a human tragedy that puts enormous pressure on the ICUs. Two weeks ago, this Chamber asked the Cabinet to make every effort to increase the number of Ice Beds. The cabinet does, but the minister said yesterday that it is going to be exciting. What additional measures will the Minister take to ensure that the ic capacity is maintained beyond 1 April? This Chamber has also repeatedly asked for the test capacity, which is inadequate in the Netherlands. The speakers before me did the same. When does the cabinet expect to be able to test on a large scale, as is happening in South Korea, for example? Once that test capacity is in place, what does that mean for the strategy? Mr. Chairman. Before the hospitals, the pressure is already with general practitioners and nurses. How is the cabinet going to assure them that there are enough protective equipment so that they can do their job safely? It was precisely the caregivers who asked us over the last few days to really stay home and respect those 1.5 meters away, so that caregivers can continue to do their job. We saw this weekend that this didn't happen properly. The cabinet has therefore announced stricter measures. I fully support that. What was lacking on Monday were clear rules, clear communication and a timely letter to the Chamber. The most frequently asked question to me over the past few days is: what is allowed and what is not allowed? What can we do until April 6th and what until June 1st? This is confusion with harmful effects on our health and economy. I'm gonna ask the Cabinet for an explanation. Distinctiveness, clarity and care are essential bearers of leadership, especially in times of crisis. If mistakes are made in a crisis that is forgivable and normal, then you should correct them immediately, not with clarification or other effect, but simply equestrian and clear. The more clarity, the sooner we can pay attention to the conditions for a successful crisis response. And that is why there are a few pressing questions. This virus won't be caught by the borders. Cooperation is essential. The Netherlands says it wants to show solidarity with other European countries. But how does that express itself? Can all public authorities be urged to pay all outstanding accounts of SMEs and middlemen immediately for financial relief from those entrepreneurs? When were all the stranded Dutch picked up abroad? Can the cabinet here promise that that trip will be reimbursed generously for all the people who can't afford it? In the meantime, Germany is allocating an additional 145 million for scientific research into corona. When will the Dutch cabinet follow this good example so that we can also intensify the research into corona in the Netherlands in the short term? How do we help schools and families who do not have the facilities for good home education? Finally, Mr President. Once again, I wish all the patients and relatives of the deceased a great deal of strength. And above all, a great deal of success for all those people in care, for aid workers and for other agencies working day and night to overcome this corona crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u27	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I will give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks. I call Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mr. Chairman. Besides empathy, courage is one of the virtues I admire most in people. Courage is not the absence of fear but the overcoming of it. Wise words from Nelson Mandela. In this corona crisis, we see a lot of signs of that. This week I spoke to a doctor at the Bernhoven Hospital in Uden. She gave me an insight into how their hospital, their world, was turned upside down in a week. How they've turned their entire organization upside down in the line of fire. How the emergency room has been extended with a tent in a parking lot with a mobile CT scan. How only life-saving interventions are done when someone comes in with a stroke, after which the patient must be taken to another hospital as soon as possible. How not only the deficits in the ICU department are acute, but that this actually applies to all nursing beds. What struck me most was the description of how all doctors within a week had only one specialty. Her hospital has no rheumatologists or cardiologists and no surgeons or kno-doctors anymore. They're all just doctors now who, under the guidance of pulmonary doctors and internists, are doing what they can to catch the flow of corona patients. Actually, there are only corona specialists as doctors and nurses. That's incredibly hard for them. Someone who works in rheumatology isn't used to watching people die, not this way, not in this number. It shows how urgent the situation is in the south of our country. But it also indicates something else. How brave people rise up in these times of crisis; people who do not speak but do, who do not hesitate to run into the burning house, for there is another. That's what the doctors and nurses are doing right now. They overcome their fears and objections. These are terrifying times, and we can do two things. We can let fear take over. We can sew each other up. We can only share the disturbing news or question experts. Or we can overcome fears and are like doctors and nurses in Uden and actually everywhere in the country who, even though they have no idea what tomorrow is gonna bring, choose not to flinch back, to do things they thought they should never do or that a day would come when they had to do it. As far as politics is concerned, it means taking measures that we would not dare to think about otherwise. This is the time to dare, not for ourselves, but for all those brave people in the line of fire. The next week will be crucial. Now's the time to move on. There is no need for national direction, but national guidance with one captain on the ship. I ask the cabinet, who is this captain? I ask the Minister whether he should not indicate which hospitals can still provide care that is not corona-related and which hospitals become corona hospitals. How are we going to open emergency hospitals with extra beds in order to cope with the influx of patients in the next few weeks? How can we take on the production of protective equipment, which is still a major shortage, and order companies in the Netherlands to make ventilators? Is it possible to get the pharmaceutical Roche recipe as soon as possible, so that we can do corona tests ourselves? Can we force them if we have to? The same applies to medicines for which pharmaceutical products do not currently have sufficient production capacity. Our pharmacies should be able to make it themselves. Does the Minister agree with me? How's he gonna make that happen? Mr President, I will conclude. It is an unprecedented intervention in the market, as we have done with direct income support forzzp'ers. We should not be afraid to enter into the intellectual property of pharmaceutical companies or be afraid to cross the healthcare market with executive action. We owe it to all those heroes in the line of fire.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u29	Thank you, Mr. Clover. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u30	Mr President, thank you. It feels kind of weird to be able to stand here again. I've been absent for a while. That has everything to do with my place of residence in, as I heard the NOS reporter say on the journal, the epicenter of the corona outbreak in the Netherlands, the Oss-Uden-Veghel region. But fortunately, I have no complaints, feel healthy and the GP has also given the green light to be here again today. I really appreciate that, because there's a lot going on. First of all, I would like to thank all those people who are now working with danger to their own health. I would also like to thank all those people who are sitting at home for the benefit of the collective. And I would like to thank all those people, especially all those people who work in care, who are now taking the lead in the fight to defeat the coronavirus. Also in my own environment in Brabant I see the size of the monster called corona. Friends of mine are working in the coronates that have been rigged up at the hospitals. I see it all around me: the increase in infections, deaths, but also the measures resulting from corona. Last week I had to say goodbye to both an uncle and an aunt of mine. They didn't die of corona, but even then you can see that even saying goodbye to loved ones in the Netherlands at the moment doesn't go the way we used to. 'Cause there were five of us and the coffin in that big one, and the rest of us were completely empty auditorium of the crematorium. With my aunt I couldn't even be there, because the choice has to be made who's closest, because only a handful of people can be there. In consultation, I chose to leave that place to someone else. Those are the choices we have to make right now. My neighbors are in quarantine. My neighbor works in a nursing home with us in the neighborhood. Gloves, that's what she got for protection and some alcohol to disinfect. She got sick last weekend. Tested corona. And now she's at home in quarantine with the whole family. So she can't take care of those older people she wants to take care of. She can't be here anymore for those colleagues who are having such a hard time right now, because she's at home. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is upside down. There are so many things I would like to say right now, so many things that are important to discuss. But there is one thing I really think we in the House of Representatives should take care of today, which I really think we should not all walk out the door again this afternoon without it being settled. This is the protection of our healthcare providers: ensuring that they have sufficient material to enable them to perform their work safely. They've always been doing so important work, but especially now. We are now asking these people to take the lead in the fight against the corona virus. The least we can do is make sure they can do their job safely. I am referring, of course, to all health professionals: the people in hospitals, but also in home care, also in the nursing home, also in general practitioners, also in disability care. These people deserve our protection. Of course, all workers who now have to work through them to keep our society running deserve protection. It is therefore so harsh to see that the people who are now asked to work through are often also the people who have had to stand up in the past period to fight for a little more appreciation, to fight for a decent reward. I therefore sincerely hope that when all this corona-wretched is over, we will ensure that these people also receive the decent appreciation they deserve. Mr. Chairman. I also have questions about testing capacity in the Netherlands. Much of that has already been said. I would like to add the following. Can we at least ensure that we can test our caregivers to a sufficient degree? How's the cabinet gonna take care of that? We also have concerns about the ic capacity. Next week 1,600 ic-beds are needed; they are not there. How are they gonna get there? How is the cabinet going to implement the distress call we heard yesterday from the hospitals about the need for national direction and the need for executive surgery? Finally. It is now all hands on deck to solve this public health crisis. That's where all the attention and energy has to go. But we fear with great fear of the social and social crisis that follows. We were able to see the messages this morning. The next recession is announced. Let us please make sure that the people who have to take the hits now are not the people who have to be in the front row to pay the bill. Let's build together an economy that works for all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u31	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I got a message this morning from someone close to me that yesterday he lost his father to corona. I call that here, because there's all these day statistics behind all these stories, all people who would have been there if they hadn't. I want to wish him but also everyone who is now confronted with that disease a great deal of strength at a very difficult time. Mr. Chairman. All the more so is my thanks to everyone who said that Jesse Klaver is right to work with personal courage and take risks to protect us. This thanks also go to the people in trade union K who are fighting the crisis. In this case, I would like to mention Bruno Bruins, who had to resign because he succumbed to the crisis burden. Mr. Chairman. It is all the more important that we as a parliament play our role in questioning a crisis cabinet critically and sharply. It's necessary, if you can see where we are now. I agree with Lilian Marijnissen's questions that you are back on protective equipment. I think that the letter leaves too much open. It's described as scarcity, but we knew that a week ago, we knew that two weeks ago, we knew that three weeks ago. I would now like to hear from the cabinet what resources are being used to produce the protective equipment in the Netherlands to ensure that at least the people in primary care, the general practitioners, can do their job safely. Two: test capacity. It is not for nothing that I asked the VVD whether they are prepared to use coercive measures in relation to the large pharmaceutical companies. If there was ever a time when the general public interest had to prevail over the interests of the market, then it is now. The fact that we are testing less than some other countries, the fact that we see large differences in testing capacity in our own country, should not lead to a description of the situation as it is, scarcity on the world market, but to intervention by the cabinet. I ask the cabinet to make a commitment that all means, including the compulsory licence on the orders of the Minister of Economic Affairs, will be deployed to ensure that we can test in the Netherlands. 'Cause this is gonna take months. If we are to get there in a responsible way, you will have to have testing capacity for the care staff and for the people outside. Three: the intensivecare capacity. Two weeks ago, Mr Wilders's and I's motion was adopted to do everything in our power to increase that capacity. Yesterday we heard Diederik Gommers say in an extremely alarming answer to a question: we do not have the capacity now and if more is needed then the Dutch healthcare system cannot handle it. I ask the Minister for scenarios in case this happens unexpectedly. The peak is still expected and there is no certainty that we will have enough. So what additional hospital capacity, what additional care capacity, what additional rehabilitation capacity and what additional intensivecare capacity are being regulated? Once again, I would point out that we do not need a description of the situation on the world market. I understand and respect how difficult it is for this cabinet to operate in. It's gonna take a lot more than that. Four: communication. Rob Jetten was keen on that following the press conference last Monday. This has led to a massive suspension and cancellation of activities for the following day to hear that these events were subject to authorisation. That's not clarifying a detail, but that's a blunder. That can happen, because where people work, mistakes are made. But I do ask the cabinet to make the next announcements. We understand that tomorrow there will be communications about the schools and they are of enormous importance and they have a huge impact on parents, on children and on the whole of education before it goes out and asks the question: do I explain what I expect of people? Have we thought until when the measures will apply? Are you also willing to explain why measures apply up to a certain point? My impression is that some of you know that I am an Amsterdammer, and that city is not known as the most law-abiding one that many Dutch people are doing their very best and willing to help. They do walk around each other with a big bow. They're ready to follow the instructions. The question lies much more with the cabinet: be clear what you expect from us Dutch. Then we will overcome this terrible crisis together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u33	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. I call Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u34	Madam President. It's so bad to see an old woman sitting behind the window and only waving at her child and her granddaughter. There are so many people who are anxious, afraid to get sick, afraid to lose their jobs, their business, afraid to miss a loved one. There are so many sick people. Heartbreaking stories about sick patients who have to leave their loved ones behind and lie alone in intensive care with the horrible fear of having to die alone. And then hope there's a nurse who can hold their hands for a while so they're not all alone in the dark anymore. Madam President. How nice it would be if we knew when this was done, but we don't know yet. You'd like us to know by now that this is good for something. That we're gonna be nicer. That we're gonna take better care of each other and know better what's really important in our lives. It is true that we now notice how much good care there is for each other now. There are a lot of heartwarming initiatives from helpful people who let the needy know that they are not alone. On the site www.not only.nl, an initiative of civil society organisations and churches, about a thousand such initiatives have been brought together in a week. We seem surprisingly resilient and caring. But if this is permanent, we don't know. Madam President. We're in the eye of the storm. The misery is raging across the country and it is still too early to predict how we will find ourselves again in the autumn. All we know for sure is that we have to do what we can here and now. I would also like to thank the people who are in the front line of care from the bottom of my heart for what they are doing now. I wish them a great deal of strength, even if it takes longer than expected. I would also like to thank the cabinet for fighting the crisis, wishing wisdom, and encouraging it to keep the Prime Minister's promise that we will not abandon anyone. It is good to see that, in addition to the economic support package that we discussed last week, there is also attention to food banks and people in the ggz, and that there are now no home expulsions. Thank you for that. But I miss in the letter attention to homeless people, the people for whom the Salvation Army has sounded the alarm today. I'd like a response. I am considering tabling a motion on this point as well. I have six more questions. One. Diederik Gommers had no reassuring announcements yesterday about the ic-capacity. What are the emergency scenarios? Two. Can the Minister of VWS tell us more about the test capacity? This also in the light of signals from doctors and scientists who say that more can already be tested. Three. In the United Kingdom, cheap self-tests have now been purchased that quickly indicate if you have had corona. Can they also be purchased in the Netherlands? Can the test for reliability not take place at European level instead of all those European countries doing so separately? This test would make our policies so much more precise and, for example, would greatly help disabled people. Four. Mr Gommers also argued for better coordination with regard to hospital capacity. Why is that plea still needed? Five. Shouldn't we at least test at Schiphol? Especially now that thousands of Dutch people are returning from all over the world, with all the risks. And six: an encouragement. Communicate clearly. Avoid ambiguity as after Monday's press conference. I ask that clarity for students, students, entrepreneurs, residents of nursing homes and their family members, and all the other Dutch people who are now counting on you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u35	Thank you, Mr Segers. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Our country floats between hope and fear. A lot of people help each other. Many people are brave enough to keep doing the important work that is needed. Especially in the care sector, but I am also very much talking about the students and the cleaners. At the same time, people are afraid. Yesterday in the briefing we heard that there is good news and bad news. The rate of infection appears to be falling and the percentage of people who are seriously ill with corona seems to be lower than in China, for example, says RIVM. You can draw hope from that. But at the same time yesterday we heard that the necessary ic-capacity is still far from being settled. On April 1, that's in six days...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u37	Mr. Baudet! We've made arrangements about distances. Those apply to you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u38	This is five feet, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u39	Well, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u40	Mr. Chairman. On April 1, which is in six days' time, 1,600 ic-beds are needed and there are not yet. What's the latest? I understand that something can change every minute, and we all hope, of course, that it will be all right before next week. It is a time when it is difficult to operate, also in the role of the representative of the people and especially in the role of the ruler as part of the crisis team. I understand that. The government rules and the Chamber controls. If there is one time when that adagium should apply, then it is now, because the cabinet must have the freedom to act wherever it is necessary. Then it is important that we keep the agreements with each other. Last week we broke up here with the following appointments. The Court supported the measures so far and we agreed that the WTO opinions will always be followed and that additional measures will be taken immediately if necessary. Still, questions remain. About testing: does the Netherlands really do enough? On the protection materials, which Mrs Marijnissen also mentioned: is the Netherlands really doing enough? And then the tightening up of the measures. After Saturday we could all see that it did not go well with the advice to the Dutch. Then I don't understand why the crisis team didn't meet Saturday night to prevent a repeat of it on Sundays and Mondays. I thought we agreed on additional measures as soon as necessary. Mr. Chairman. The Animal Party supports the tightening up of the measures. We have great respect that the cabinet has tried to find a good balance, because we are faced with diabolical dilemmas. People who need contact for their psychic well-being, but who also just need care, it's quite a lot. It's a lot you can't visit anymore. It's a lot that you can't pick up your mentally handicapped brother on the weekends. Heartbreaking. So we support that, but the call remains: if it's not enough, if it's unclear, if it's not communicated, then it's right up. Because communication isn't going well enough. I hate to do it, but I'm just pointing to Boris Johnson. It was very clear in his little speech: you stay at home and this and that, and you can do that, and otherwise you can't. I think that's better than leaving interpretation open to people, and possible misunderstandings. Finally. I know the mantra doesn't apply right now. I understand very well that the VWS Ministry has other things in mind, but there are also other ministries that have to continue to do their job. We are now constantly seeing virologists on television. Fortunately, we now take their expertise seriously. But Marion Koopmans, for example, had already concluded with her research group in 2018 that these viruses are more common, because the way we deal with animals in the Netherlands, but also with deforestation worldwide, in which the Netherlands is an important driver, is dangerous. So no, the VWS ministry doesn't have to deal with this right now, but the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Foreign Trade must now look at the risks that are still lurking. Because if a new pandemic breaks out because of those zoonoses, we can't have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u41	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u42	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u43	I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u44	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would also like to wish all relatives, patients and their relatives good luck. There's more and more of them. We don't know a lot of them. They'll be strangers. But it's getting closer, especially if you live at the place in Brabant where I live. Also within our party, a party that stands out especially for older people, we are hard hit. All praise for the employees working day in, day out in care, cleaning and all other vital sectors. A number of points on care for the elderly. Is attention paid to community care and home care in the distribution of protective equipment? Mrs Marijnissen also mentioned this. Are nursing homes equipped enough to keep all residents in regular contact with family and friends? Is there enough time? Are there sufficient resources to take care of this important aspect of life? Is it not possible to consider allowing a limited number of carers or volunteers, whether tested or not, per nursing home or nursing home? They can then give just the care that is needed at this time. 50PLUS is moved by all the initiatives in the country. Meals, card actions, concerts at the door, beautiful, it makes me quiet. A compliment for all these initiatives, but how is the situation in there? Can the Minister answer that? What guidelines are there, especially in the case of an infection in the home? What is the situation with regard to the implementation of the motion for a resolution adopted on the adoption of additional measures to support and care for carers in these difficult times? What steps have been taken to implement my motion on an emergency plan for elderly and vulnerable people living independently at home? This certainly also applies to people who cannot bring their partner to daily spending. What's arranged for them? Mr. Chairman. Then there are a few questions about the bed capacity. What exactly is the state of play with regard to the exchange of data? Is there a current insight? Are all hospitals connected to one system? What has the government done with the 50PLUS motion that has been adopted that has literally asked for regional systems to be set up in consultation with the eleven regional acute care chains in such a way that, in times of crisis, the relevant data can also be understood by neighbouring regions and GGDs? That was a predictive motion from December 2018. If the Minister of VWS decides that we are going to the next stages and there is not enough room on the ic's, I know: this is a difficult subject, what then? Then who gets care? Who doesn't? You will understand that in my constituency there are a lot of people awake from that. In this context, I would also like to mention the Chamberwide 50PLUS motion on the non-application of age limits. May I assume that the voice of the elderly will also be heard? I have two final questions. 50PLUS believes that it is wise to decide quickly whether or not to close holiday parks, leisure homes and campsites, especially in view of the approaching Easter weekend. What's wise? I also get complaints about the O.V., which is no longer in line, which prevents care workers from getting to work on time. And is it possible to use the entire homepage of the website reichsoverheid.nl for communication about the corona crisis? Now it looks a bit messy and there are also things that I think: are they important now? My question is, above all, whether it can be done in Dutch. Finally, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would like to thank the cabinet and all the staff of the various governments for their enormous commitment in these difficult times. And, Mr President, who would have thought keeping away would be the pinnacle of humanity? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u45	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u46	Madam President. In the midst of these difficult times it is encouraging to see resilience and ingenuity, but also solidarity, which you see blooming up in so many places in the country. Just think of the care workers who are working day and night. Hail for that. But also very simple: children who put their precious Donald Duckjes in the mailbox with the elderly to help them get through these difficult days. Beautiful. But they are rays of light against a dark background of mourning and sadness, abandoning who you love. That hurts. Even if there is no mourning and sorrow, but you are no longer allowed to come into contact with who you love, it is heartbreaking. Of course you're happy with video calls, but if you can't visit your child with a disability or can't hold your demented husband or wife's hand, it's heartbreaking. We all know that, and we all see that. It also hurts people if they cannot go to church, as baptism and supper are not served. Of course, you are grateful that you can listen in remotely, but you still miss something that can so strengthen and comfort, just when in uncertain times the desire of your heart is so strong to seek his face in the distress of this time in the house of God and his church. So each heart has its own sorrow. Mr. Chairman. We support the measures taken by the cabinet. Today the question for everyone is: what else is needed? When you talk to people, like we all do in these days, three points come out for me. The first is personal protective equipment such as mouth caps and gloves. These are essential for home care, carers, disability care, maternity care and hospitals. Everywhere this concern is number one. The question is: how quickly can this be foreseen? My second point concerns the tests. If we can test more and test faster, it can do so much good. When will the study of these rapid tests be completed? The third point is all about the previous two points. What's our approach? In intensive care, you saw that in the end a tighter, directed approach was chosen. The army is helping with that. Is this tighter structure not also necessary in order to obtain sufficient personal protective equipment and tests? What steps are being taken in this more managerial approach? We also have a number of emergency laws for crisis times, for example the Emergency Justice Act. It has everything to do with deadlines. Are those emergency laws being used, too? I read this morning that there's going to be an emergency rent bill. Is the Cabinet also considering which emergency measures or emergency laws can help to deal with these times of crisis? This applies not only to the hospital's ic's, but also wider in the care world to put things in order in, for example, home care and caregivers. We want to uphold the rule of law. Rather a democratic emergency law than an ill-thought-out "emergency breaks the law." Mr. Chairman. Earlier this week I asked the owner of a small fish shop if he could keep his head a little above water. I was struck by his answer, because he first said that he was concerned about the older people who were now less in his shop and wondered if they had sufficient contact with others. My question to the cabinet is therefore how we can help those lonely people not to be alone and how we can also make use of the resources available to them to ask for help. I liked that he first thought about others at a time when he himself was having a hard time. In the same way, I would like to ask here today whether we, the Netherlands, should not sympathise with developing countries and refugee camps that are not blessed with sufficient food and good health care, where you can see a corona disaster coming. What can we mean for vulnerable distant relatives, I ask the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. I would like to wish the members of the cabinet and all those who bear responsibility and hard in the weather a great deal of wisdom and strength in these difficult times. Know that many in the country pray for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u47	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. These are special times. The corona virus has completely turned our lives upside down. I also notice myself that this leads to uncertainty, fear and great concern. There is a great need for explanation and information. He's in full attendance. Behind that daily flow of cold statistics is much suffering. We are with 17 million social beings in the Netherlands who seek out the natural propensity to each other, embrace each other and even physically support each other. A harsh observation is that because of the virus we cannot help the weak in these difficult times and we must deny them the much-needed comfort and comfort. We sympathize with the victims' families. We have great appreciation for the care staff, from cleaner to doctor, who struggles daily with an unprecedented effort in the front line to keep people alive; a great achievement. But let us also pay attention to the victims who are further away from us, not only to our immediate neighbours, but also to the people in all other parts of the world, such as in refugee camps. Mr. Chairman. In times of crisis, it is a clear approach, decisive leadership and unambiguous communication. The cabinet has put in place measures to prevent further dissemination. But barely a week later, these measures had to be tightened up: no meetings, even more shops closed and enforcement with heavy fines. Do we see a cabinet here that's just a little too far behind the facts? The previous debate called for stricter enforcement of the rules. Then the Prime Minister indicated that they weren't necessary. That's too bad, because the mayors were also holding hands in their hair. We saw a Prime Minister pissed off and stompingly announced, on 23 March, that new measures were needed. Now the minister must be a little angry with himself. Shouldn't he have foreseen that some of the rules would not be respected? In these times of crisis, you pay the price very hard for that wrong assumption. We were briefed yesterday by the chairman of the association of intensive care specialists. He asked for direction. Literally, he said, "you're missing central military control." Hard words. Hospitals, among others in Brabant, stand against the wall with their backs and cannot handle the pressure. They're screaming for help. What is needed is a government that takes control and distributes the pain, so that all hospitals contribute to the fight against it. We just can't afford that. Today I would like the Prime Minister's commitment that there is a nationwide control over the distribution of patients. At the moment we are running a race against the clock to realize enough intensivecarebeds for the corona patients. That's gonna be exciting, Minister De Jonge said. If we carry on like this, we'll be above capacity next week and we won't be chasing the facts here. Can the Minister be clear? How much intensivecare capacity is there now? How much capacity will be added in the coming days? Are there any emergency scenarios? And when will the tests be available? Tests lead to good results in other countries. Finally, the point of communication. It's just not good. The comms aren't right. Citizens have experienced them as too vague and unclear. When do you get out? How many? Are they rules or advice? When's the hospitality business gonna shut down? Can kids play soccer with each other? What about the finals and other students? Isn't the government going after the facts on this point, too? In crisis time, communication is crucial. There must be no ambiguity about that. I'm rounding up. Society demands a government with a clear approach, decisive leadership and clear communication. There's no time to go after the facts anymore. Anything to increase intensivecare capacity and test capacity, anything to fight this virus. Let us move forward courageously side by side, look after each other and respect the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u49	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u50	Thank you, Madam President. What a unprecedented situation we've ended up in. The country has fallen into a violent period. Who could have foreseen that in this way? It is an extraordinary situation, in which we all have to make every effort to reverse it as quickly as possible. I am glad that, in our view, the cabinet has finally taken too late since last Monday, because this should have been done earlier, and it has taken a large part of the lockdown measures that we have already advocated. I hope that with these measures, if they are effectively enforced, we will be able to put a number of specific questions to the government about this outbreak of this terrible virus quickly under control. However, I think that more needs to be done on one point, and that is really very important. That is that we control borders much more intensively, because we need to know who enters our country. There is still too little clarity about that. Too little has been done about it. This way you can't control who gets it and how the virus spreads. That's like securing your house very well, but leaving the back door open. I would very much like more clarity from the government on this point. The second point is enforcement. We have now received a very clear advice not to school together. People can't get together in large groups. How is that maintained? How is this monitored? We need to clarify this further. Later on, I think we're gonna look back on how this has taken so long. Why didn't the government take these measures much earlier? It was obvious, wasn't it? We warned, others warned. How could this take so long? Now is not the time to point fingers, but at a later stage it will probably be investigated in the form of a parliamentary inquiry, including what things we can learn from it for the future. Then it is now absolute priority to increase two things in the Netherlands, as soon as possible, by all the means available. One is the expansion of the test capacity. As far as we are concerned, no issue in this area is taboo, not even to question any medical patents that pharmaceutical Roche and others have in their possession. They may, perhaps not, want to make things available to society. I think this is the kind of emergency in which the government must be able and dared to intervene, so we will support proposals on this. The second point is: maximum commitment to increasing healthcare capacity. Nor should we explain any of the issues beyond our field of view. Military hospitals need to be motivated to make beds available. It's already happening. We can also look at capacity abroad, where it may be possible to rent beds or in another form of cooperation to see if we can make them available to Dutch patients. All this in order to ease the radical economic measures as quickly as possible. Entrepreneurs are incredibly insecure. Yesterday we discussed the robust package of aid measures in detail with the Minister of Finance. About how this is paid out, how entrepreneurs can register, within what time limit there is clarity, I still hear a lot of questions in society. I hope they will also be answered in the first term by the government. There are also questions about education. How are we going to shape the school exams? What are the guarantees if it happens digitally? Then how the hell can you keep an eye out for that to happen in a fair way? This requires a concrete plan of action, which we are waiting for. That should actually come in the next few weeks. There must also be a perspective when, as a society, we can gradually take steps again, I hope, in the course of April, in order to bring society back to normal, at a time when care capacity and testing capacity have been expanded and the outbreak of the virus seems to be under control. Until then, especially as long as we in the Chamber do not hold regular meetings, I have one very important additional last point. I think that is an essential point and I am counting on the support of as many groups in the Chamber as possible, including coalition groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u51	You have to finish, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u52	That is to declare controversial, and I will table a motion on it in the second term, all the other issues that are currently being discussed. Once again, nitrogen measures have been pushed through, while farmers are not allowed to demonstrate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u53	Mr. Baudet,...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u54	There are issues about the European Union, the Climate Law, and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u55	I'm going to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u56	We can't decide on that right now. I'll put that in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u57	You must keep to the speaking time, like everyone else. You must come back, Mr Baudet, because Mrs Ouwehand has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u58	I believe that we have agreed that parliamentary control will continue, including in other areas. We can also see that the work in a number of ministries has completely stopped. There seems to be even more free play for lobbyists than usual. We only do that in writing. I wonder what Mr Baudet's proposal is about. I think he has a point when we read reports that all kinds of agreements have been concluded in the light and we have not been informed about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u59	What exactly is the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u60	The question is what exactly does Mr Baudet mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u61	Yes. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u62	I think that we should continue to do our parliamentary work, albeit in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u63	That's what you said. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u64	I think that Parliament's role is essentially linked to public debate. At a time when you can take away these kinds of issues, which have a lot of social impact and are sensitive, through e-mail procedures or other matters, you are committing violence to the democratic process. So right now, as a room, you just have to say, guys, the themes that... I think we should draw up a list as soon as possible. That's what my motion says, too. My motion will be sent to you in a moment. I hope you can co-sign. It concerns all the issues related to today's major political issues, namely climate, immigration, the European coup d'état, everything that has to do with nitrogen rules... I told you, the farmers are not allowed to demonstrate. Then we cannot say: because of corona we are going to take it off in writing. That is simply a violation of democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u65	I do think it is important for Mr Baudet to make a good distinction between e-mail procedures, in which citizens cannot watch at all, and debate in writing with the cabinet. After that public written exchange of views, if you have a very strong point of pain, we can see how you solve it in the situation where we agreed that we would physically less get together. I can follow him in that. But the cabinet always likes things to be declared controversial. Then it just doesn't have to do its job. Again, the ministries that are working on the acute solutions needed in this crisis should not be burdened with other things, but in other ministries I already know: they are going to sit around and think about what they like. We need to keep checking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u66	Of course, we'll keep looking at what's happening. We will continue to do our job as parliamentarians. However, the cabinet cannot now take all kinds of decisions. Another nitrogen measure has been signed off on this week. That is simply not possible, if you know that there is a lot of resistance in society and there is a lot of debate about it. I think that everyone in the Netherlands understands that we say: at the moment, we are only debating corona-related matters while the crisis is still so intense and we do not know a lot of things. We hope, of course, that we can continue on a regular basis with a few weeks. Until then, I think we should say to the cabinet: boys, on hold, you don't make any decisions. Take Albania's accession. It's just said: okay, let's get these accession talks started. That's impossible, isn't it? That's not how democracy is supposed to work, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u67	I agree with Mr Baudet, but it is all the more important that we continue to carry out our monitoring tasks, so we must not let them get away with it. There were only two, but I immediately asked questions about the report that there would be an agreement on the nitrogen crisis. The Chamber has not been informed of this. The cabinet must feel that we do not accept that. The cabinet finds it a little easy not to have to think about painful issues anymore. If we are all going to declare this controversial, they are going to be on vacation. We should not burden the crisis ministries further, but we should be able to control the other work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u68	I am sorry to have to say this politically, but I really think that Mrs Ouwehand is mistaken in what is a controversial statement. It does not mean that they can continue to do what they are doing without us doing our job. It means that they must not continue with all these plans and put them on pause until we get back together in a normal way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u69	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. Then I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u70	I think Mrs. Ouwehand still wants... No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u71	I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u72	Mr. Chairman. The major corona crisis can only be combated if everyone participates in it, by sticking to the measures and following the advice of the RIVM. Clear communication and clear language, for everyone to understand, are extremely important. People need clarity, just in times of crisis, just when people are being asked so much. The Prime Minister said last night it could have been tighter. That has been said very carefully, but I am pleased with that insight and I hope that the cabinet will learn from this. Mr. Chairman. It is shocking to hear that the national direction in hospital care is seriously missed, that the situation is acute and that doctors are extremely concerned. I agree with all the questions raised by previous speakers and ask the cabinet: how is it going to solve this? Mr. Chairman. I would like to add something to this debate that has not yet been appointed. An intelligent lockdown, no longer going to school, no longer going to work and especially staying home with the whole family, the feeling of being locked up and not being able to get out, can be difficult for everyone. But for the children, the women, the men, the elderly who are in an unsafe home situation and can no longer escape from abuse, physical and/or mental violence is particularly anxious in this situation. Safe Home and the Child Phone are now receiving much more notifications than usual. I would like to ask the Prime Minister and the Minister to let these people know that we are still there for them at the time of this crisis, that they can call with Safe Home and the Child's Phone and that there will also be help in these difficult times, which are particularly difficult for them, anxious and sometimes pitch black. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u73	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u74	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by saying that I support the current intelligent lockdown. It gives confidence and it is a good method to control the spread of the coronavirus, but at a huge social price. Last week I advocated a regime like that in Taiwan. Taiwan has 23 million people, 153 infections and only 2 deaths. They test everyone there and when people are tested positive, they are isolated. This method has also been successfully used in Hong Kong. Together with Mr Baudet, I tabled a motion last week to purchase more test material. Unfortunately, incomprehensiblely, this motion was rejected, but fortunately the whole operative part is now almost literally in the letter we received yesterday, so it is good to see that sometimes motions that are not adopted are still being carried out. Thank you for that. The government's statements on why we are not testing on a large scale in the Netherlands do not make sense to me. Measuring is known and we now have no idea of the number of infections. The tests are not expensive, the only problem seemed to be availability, but that too is no longer a problem, and the benefits are obvious. To combat this pandemic, the reproductive number, the R, must be reduced. The measures already taken all contribute to this, but one of the measures that has the greatest impact on the reproductive number, and thus on the rate at which the number of infections increases or decreases, is testing and isolation. The Minister has said several times that there is insufficient test material, but now we know that this problem is solved. So why not bet on intensive testing and isolation now? Mr. Chairman. Time is very important in this crisis. To purchase test material, to increase the number of intensive care beds, to develop a vaccine, to minimise the impact on society and the economy and to re-destruct measures as soon as possible. This leads to the conclusion that we need to start intensive testing as soon as possible and isolate the people who are infected. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u75	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The cabinet needs a suspension of about 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u76	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u77	Thank you, Madam President. I would first like to make a few administrative and introductory remarks. Then I'll get to the core right away. I myself am here until 2.30 p.m., I must say again, because I have to be at the European Council. Besides, I can't be replaced. This is due to the Rules of Procedure of the European Council. It's a video meeting. So I'll be there until 2:30. I would also ask you to understand that, after my introduction, I am just a short distance away for one phone call. Then I'll be right back in this room. Then the division of roles. The Minister of Health will talk about testing, ic capacity, personal protective equipment, care for the vulnerable and education. I'll see if he doesn't freak out. No, that's the division of roles. I'm trying to take care of the other questions. I would also like to tell you that, after a few introductory words, I will first say something about last Monday's communication, which is rightly criticised. But before I do that, I would first like to join with all those who have expressed their sympathy for the people who are currently affected by this. Also yesterday there was the sad news that 80 people died. In the meantime, it is a number that is above 350. There are also extra people infected. I think we all have great sympathy for the people who are affected by this, especially the people who are affected by this terrible misery by deaths in their immediate vicinity. I had in my head that I wanted to say something similar to the story of Lilian Marijnissen, but she said much more beautifully what a huge impact this has on people. If you can't visit your grandmother and grandmother in the nursing home and if people have to meet up with each other who can go to the funeral or the cremation... Anyway, I am not going to repeat what Mrs Marijnissen said, because she put it very nicely, I thought. But it is what the whole of the Netherlands feels now, I think. Politics, of course, interferes with people's lives, even under normal circumstances. That's right. We are all here a force for good. Sometimes, in people's eyes, we are also a force for evil, but I believe that we are all trying to be a force for good here. That's what we're trying to do now. But to be a force for good, we have to take very difficult measures together. They have far-reaching consequences for people themselves, such as being unable to keep the people you love most close to you and sometimes literally unable to look up. That's a hell of a stretch. It also affects weddings and funerals, where a limited number of people can now be present. It affects all those things that have been mentioned. I would also like to endorse what has been said about thanking the people in the care sector. I therefore have in mind last week's visit to a hospital in The Hague, the people who work in logistics and transport patients, the people in cleaning. I am thinking of a lady who came here four or five years ago from Spain. She now tries to work ten to twelve hours a day. I said be careful, because this could take a little longer and we want you with us. I'm thinking about the people in logistics. A guy full of tattoos, who's been transporting people between different hospitals and within hospitals for 30 years, said, "You know? This is what we've been trained for. This is our job. It's heavy, but we're gonna manage it together." That gives a lot of confidence. I'm thinking of the stuffer that says, "Joh, people are hanging over me. I have to put shopping carts around me." Fortunately, we now see measures in the retail sector to create greater distance between people and to keep the amount of people in the store easy. In this respect, too, the sector takes on its responsibilities. We are trying to help in this from Economic Affairs. But I do see the box filler, who says, "Joh, I'm trying to get the boxes filled. Just think of me for a second." I'm also thinking of the two soldiers last Tuesday. Hugo de Jonge will say more about the national coordination centre and about the capacity in Rotterdam at the Erasmus MC, but what remains with me from my work visit on Tuesday were two soldiers. They've been working together for 30 years. They've been in Iraq and Afghanistan. They say, "You know what? This is our job. Normally, we have a few weeks for it. Now we have 48 hours for it, but we will indeed be able to do so." That huge creativity... Hugo told me about a clinic in Bernhoven. That's where he was this weekend. That's where they've been. I've heard it through my colleague's eyes. Normally, you spend five years discussing this and you spend five years talking to the Health Inspectorate about it. Part of that time you actually want to have, because you want to do it more carefully than how it happens now. But the creativity and the enormous commitment that is released... I was at the Erasmus MC Ice Department. I saw the peace and the focus with which people there do their jobs. When you realize that people sometimes spend three or four weeks on a machine like this and it's all about how they get out... Often they have largely lost their muscles or have developed other complaints. Maybe they'll be rehabilitating for six months or a year. I see the expertise of the ic-doctors, but I also see how they are doing there to scale up the ic-capacity. I've got all these people in mind, like we all have people in mind right now. We see them on TV or on work visits. I call them policemen I was with yesterday. I call the fire department. I call the ambulance people I spoke to yesterday. They all say, "You know what? This is intense, but we all have to stand there now. And we also know that this may take some time, and we will stand there in that time too. We're watching each other. We'll make sure we get enough rest, although we can't always do that with the absenteeism. But maybe we can do it again later." I'm really impressed by that. I will not put my usual adjective for "country," because that may not be so fitting today, but I am really impressed again by the Netherlands and how we do this with each other. What did not go well in that context was Monday's press conference. It was too messy. We've agreed to hold a press conference of this kind up to the maximum of two of us from now on. It doesn't have to be every time after such a ministerial commission. We did it differently last night. Then there were no major announcements and we had a short press moment. If there are some bigger announcements, we will continue to do so in a press conference, but we will do so with up to one other minister. And we'll take more time to prepare it properly. There were all kinds of reasons why it went this way, which may be soothing, but I'm not going to mention it. It just wasn't good enough. It's gotta be tight. The key message we wanted to emit on Monday is: stay at home as much as possible, and if you go outside, keep that 1.5 meters away. Secondly, the following is important. Until last Monday the message was: stay home if you have a cough and/or a cold. Last Monday it was added that if you feel trouble and/or have a fever, the whole family should stay home. That's an important addition. That's part of what I called "the intelligent lockdown." So you don't force all healthy people to stay at home, but then we have to make sure that people stay at home as much as possible when they cough, cough or have a cold. It was until last Monday. But if there is trouble and/or fever, the whole family stays at home. So that's new from last Monday. That snowed a little under, just like that messy press conference. So I would like to repeat that here again. We will now continue to communicate this in all other ways. So if there is trouble and/or fever, the whole family stays at home. I am going to go into enforcement in more detail, because there are, of course, a lot of things that have been said about enforcement on Monday. That's a lot, too. We are now trying to communicate this as well as possible. I'm about to say more about it, but I wanted to tackle the right point right away. It's gotta be tighter. Again, we're gonna take more time to prepare, and we're gonna be up to two. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the questions that have been asked. Well, I guess I'd better get on with that point of communication. We're going to look at government.nl. That website should never open with: an amendment to the Accounting Act has been adopted. That website should always report, first and second and third, communications on the fight against corona. Of course, there are some other things that we have to report, but it must be very clear that that website is all about that. I think that's usually the case, but we're going to look at that again. So I've taken note of that suggestion. So that's what we're gonna pick up. We'll be communicating a lot in the near future, too. A very broad public communication campaign is launched. Actually, it's already started in the last few days. Yesterday, for example, there were ads in the newspapers. Social media, radio and television, as well as national and regional newspapers are widely used. I thought the following was very handsome. Monday, after the somewhat messy press conference, I watched the news broadcasts at 7:30 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. Then I thought: what a cleverly reduced message; that is how we would have liked to bring it. They asked about the coronajournaal. It has not been possible to do that as some here wanted, but I think we have a coronajournaal all day long, in the form of NOS, RTL, our newspapers, but also other channels. I think our reporters are doing well. Of course, they're also critical when things don't go well. That's the way it's supposed to be. But I notice they make the distinction every time. On the one hand, there is criticism. It's being appointed. Concerns are of course heavily spent. At the same time, they will be there when there are announcements. In fact, last Monday they managed to bring what we wanted to say to the NOS Journal and RTL News. That's also important. But again, that has been complemented by a whole public communication campaign since the last few days. People can also ask personal questions via the national public information number. That is also important, because of course there are always questions: how can I act best in this situation? You can try to provide everything as much as possible, up to and including: if you want to organize something, don't do it, but if there's no other way, no more than three adults in your house. Anyway, there are always more special questions that you can't just share in a press moment. It is important that this goes through public communication, but that people can also ask personal questions. In that context, I would like to make a few comments before I come to the other questions. It has to do with the ban on events and meetings. We have said that events with a licence and notification obligation will be banned until 1 June 2020. All other meetings shall be prohibited until 6 April. I will say this once more: that is about everything that is to be done until 6 April, except for the events with a licence and/or notification obligation, because they are prohibited until 1 June. There are very big events with a lot of preparation time. Think of King's Day, May 4 and 5 and other events. All the other measures we have taken will apply until 6 April. We are going to decide next Tuesday in the Ministerial Crisis Commission how to deal with these measures after 6 April, including the question of education. It'll all come out next Tuesday. In addition, all other meetings are prohibited until 6 April, with a few exceptions, which I will not mention here all. I'll mention one: funerals and weddings, but with up to 30 people. This also applies to meetings of a religious or philosophical nature with up to 30 people. Those few exceptions need to be made legal. I'll be on enforcement in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u78	This was one of the points that should have been tighter last Monday: 6 April and 1 June. After that press conference, many event organisations, but also companies in the cultural sector, as the weather, are going to cancel their events until 1 June. They did that because of the announcement made at the press conference. No distinction has yet been made between licensed and unauthorized events. Will the cabinet be able to look at all those parties who have now cancelled all their activities until 1 June because of that press conference when it comes to the economic aid package?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u79	I'll answer that question according to what we're doing. Again, all events with a licence and notification obligation have rightly been stopped. Insofar as they were not subject to notification or authorisation, I can imagine that there is confusion. In any case, they will not be allowed to do so until 6 April. Depending on what we decide next Tuesday, we need to see if there are any consequences. I'll take that. I can't promise that exactly right now, but I'll come back to it sometime. Mr. Chairman. The enforcement of this has been requested. I would like to say a few words about this. The model emergency regulation has been very well discussed with the security regions. Today the regulation will be adopted and it will be strengthened in all those security regions in the next few days. You saw it yesterday at the Hague Market: the mayors are already maintaining it. Then you talk about the things that have to be done: the events until June 1 when they are licensed and reporting. It is also those other meetings until April 6th. It also applies to the matters that we decided on Monday about the casinos and games halls, about matters that are aimed at the external care etc., and about the practice of those contact professions. That is all forbidden and they are therefore included in the emergency regulation. All the security regions have now drawn up them together. She'll be in effect for the next few days. In addition, there are the issues on which the safety regions can act if it appears, for example, that hygiene measures or the 1.5 metres are not complied with. For example, we asked about holiday parks, campsites, parks, nature reserves and beaches. It has been agreed that they should be closed if no or too little follow-up is given at these locations to hygiene measures and 1.5 metres away. For example, you saw that happen yesterday on the Hague Market, so that's what the mayors do. It applies to the shops, the markets, the holiday parks, the campsites. It also applies to group formation: enforcement in the case of more than three people who do not stick to the 1.5 meter distance. That's all part of the emergency regulation. That's the paper that follows all the decisions for a few days. You can see in practice that the security regions are already doing all that. The most important thing is that on Monday, with that moment of the press, the feeling of this weekend that a lot of people kept their end of the bargains and a small group didn't, wondering if everyone was on their side, has really changed significantly. That has been the collective appearance of all Twitter messages from politicians and Monday's actions. I also heard it yesterday from the police in The Hague and in the regional emergency room of ambulance, fire department and police. There is really a noticeable difference before and after the weekend. Monday's press conference was revisited by 7.5 million people. That collective message has come through, and I am very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u80	I think it is true that this message has been received since Monday, also because of the additional measures announced, which I welcome. But I also received reports that there are still a lot of enforcement problems, particularly in public transport. Groups of young people, with or without fur collars, cause a lot of unrest there. No civilian auditors this time. Does the Prime Minister have a visual on that? Have measures been announced for this purpose? There is hardly any more checks on trains, even to prevent contamination. It is logical that that is very difficult, but the consequence is that there is now... I just got an e-mail from a train conductor that there are young people on the train smoking and listening to music. Those are really nasty situations. Is there a plan for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u81	Such reports have not reached me in this spirit, but this sounds serious, so I will come back to them in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u82	I have a question about the events that have been strengthened and meetings of a religious or philosophical nature. A large group of mosques have said: we didn't think that 100 was a good idea, we just shut the door. I am getting reports that on this basis people say: we demand that the mosque be opened. That puts such a board in a difficult position. Did the minister take that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u83	Constitutionally, in the Netherlands, we cannot ban religious meetings in a general sense because of religious freedom. We did say 30 people tops. So the rule is: until April 6th, no events. One of the exceptions is religious or philosophical meetings. That's where up to 30 people are allowed to go. In practice, most churches and mosques are closed. Mr Van der Staaij said that they are now working with audiovisual media. Of course, that doesn't bring the atmosphere and the warmth that you have when you can get together. I understand, but most of them are closed. Our appointments say: up to 30 people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u84	I think that's the right line. I think it is good for the Prime Minister to say in that sense that it is fine that they are closed, but that it is not possible for this reason. Mosque authorities and other ecclesiastical institutions can feel strengthened in this way when they decide to close the whole. That is also in line with the prevention of contamination.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u85	Sure, they can just do that and then I wholeheartedly support it. But we do have a constitutional limitation here. Again, if there are up to 30 and at least 1.5 meters away and all other conditions...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u86	Church services are not licensing or reporting events, so I honestly do not understand why this should be part of the communication last Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u87	I'm gonna explain. The communication Monday was about events with a licence or notification obligation until 1 June. All other events are prohibited until April 6. So the limit of 100 is gone. It's been released. Next Tuesday we will decide what to do with it. There are four exceptions: meetings of Municipal Councils and States General, provided that no more than 100 meetings are required for the continuation of daily activities of institutions, companies and other organisations, up to 100, funerals and weddings, up to 30, and religious or philosophical meetings, up to 30. There's the difference. It could've been sharper on Monday. I've been discussing enforcement. So those are the emergency regulations...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u88	Before you proceed, Mr Wilders has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u89	I still have a small point. It's not about enforcement, it's about what's allowed. The Minister for Justice, Mr Grapperhaus, said on Monday, and it is also stated in the decision that young children can play outdoors together. Now there's been a lot of commotion about that. Yesterday I believe it was also a theme at EenVandaag: 40% or 45% of parents do not understand that. RIVM researches whether children can spread the disease, but there are previous studies in China that indicate that this is possible. Children may become ill themselves, although they can. A 1-year-old child is now in the hospital in Leiderdorp. Children can also spread the virus. Because this is incomprehensible to a lot of parents in the Netherlands, I wondered if it would be wise to let these children play with each other outside. Then they go home and they can infect their parents. That's serious enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u90	All the things I mention are based on the advice of the Outbreak Management Team. There is nothing in this that we, as politicians, have invented, which we thought we should do. We looked at the situation of the weekend on Sunday and Monday. Also because of the test approach in the Netherlands, home quarantine has been chosen. If someone not only has cold problems, but also develops tightness and/or fever, the whole family stays at home. All this comes from the advice of the OMT, including this point. We base ourselves on the scientific advice and that is why we have taken on board what the OMT says. There is no group formation when children up to 12 years of age play together under the supervision of one or more parents. Those parents have to keep a foot and a half away. If children are gaming at home or reading a book, there must also be as many as possible 1.5 meters away. Outside, it's gonna be very difficult for kids. We accept that, too. When they come home after playing outside, they have to wash their hands right away. For the parents, they must keep the 1.5 meter distance. The size of the group of children must be such that it is manageable. There is, of course, common sense in this. If that group of children gets too big, of course it is unwise. That's what we say. You can't put it all exactly in an opinion. On the basis of all the expert advice, the OMT has told us that children can play outside. We will then take it over, of course after political scrutiny. So far, we've taken over everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u91	I'm not an OMT, but I hope I have common sense. I don't think that five feet away from kids playing outside is gonna happen. The Minister says so himself. They lie in each other's arms and ramble, as children do. That's usually good and also very nice. But now they do, and I don't think this is wise. On the one hand, tell all of you to keep your distance, but at this time, you're making kids rattle with each other. Then they go home and the Prime Minister hopes that they will wash their hands and can infect the adults in that family. Again, a lot of parents don't understand this. I think the logic is as follows. If the Prime Minister himself does not want to take a political decision on it, he may be able to discuss it with the experts again on the basis of practice to see if this is wise knowing that children do not keep that distance and that it is not certain whether they should do what they should do at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u92	I get that question. Of course, this must be handled wisely. We base our entire policy on scientific advice. It is really important that we have the anchor of scientific advice. That's what we're trying to get through this whole crisis. That scientific advice in the form of the OMT, the club that brings together all the groups that go about it, says that children can play outside. When they play at home it's easier to try to keep that 1.5 meters away. After playing outside, they must wash their hands immediately afterwards. Parents keep a foot and a half away. That's how it's written down by the OMT and that's how it's discussed with each other. After that, we said, "Okay, we'll take this, too." Of course, new insights can always emerge. It is always possible for scientific insight to change and then we will immediately incorporate it into policy. This is now the scientific advice. It's weighted and well discussed. We're gonna hold onto that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u93	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his clarity towards churches. I've had a lot of contact with churches after Monday. A lot of questions came up. There was plenty of exegesis about the meaning of the lyrics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u94	That's their job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u95	They do that all the time; they love that. You also saw that other organizations like the KNVB were going to do exegesis. Contact is taking place between Minister Grapperhaus and the churches, thank you for that. It'd be good if there's a place, an address where they can go with their questions, if there are any. This also applies to the KNVB, to theatre associations, to society as a whole. Is there one point of contact, one point of contact where they can contact with their questions? Is this what you're saying or what you're saying it isn't? Does that apply to us or not? That would help a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u96	For personal questions, the national public information number. I will come back in the second term to the question of whether we have one window for civil society organisations. That is how I understood Mr Segers' question. I want to check that out just to make sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u97	I'm gonna keep playing outside. I understand the Prime Minister's explanation that he has received advice from the OMT, although the investigation into the infectious effects of children up to 12 years of age is still ongoing. You could have made a different assessment of that, too. What I get especially from parents is that, although this rational explanation can be followed if you listen very carefully, it is very difficult to apply it in practice in these times of crisis. There are kids playing outside. One parent leaves the children at home. The other parent will send them out on the street. That feeling of uncertainty must also be taken into account by the government in the choice of measures it takes or does not take. RIVM and OMT advise the cabinet. That is scientifically justified on the basis of public health. I think it is up to the cabinet to see if it is a rule that is practically feasible for all people in the Netherlands who are saddled with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u98	I understand that, and we did. You're never gonna do less than the scientific advice. That's the first rule. You might be doing more. Because of the fact that pupils and teachers were in uncertainty, we have said: the scientific advice is that schools can remain open, but you see that society makes a different choice and we follow the choice of society more or less democratically. How's that going? It happens. A society thus has its ways of expressing its own vision of policy. That happened a few weeks ago at the schools. That's what we followed back then. I just want to be very specific. You follow the scientific advice and then there's a bandwidth in it. You also have to make sure that people continue to use their common sense. I'm gonna keep appealing to that, too. We can't prescribe everything in detail. If that's what people want, a few things are important. That's also on the websites. Children under the age of 12 may play together in the playground. They must be healthy. If they cough, sneeze, or have a cold in the nose, or have a fever, then it shouldn't be. The group should not be too large, but we do not attach a maximum group size to that. We really leave that to the wise policies of the parents. When they play at home, keep five feet away. When they play outside, make sure they wash their hands afterwards. Parents at least keep that 1.5 meters away. In the end, we decided to take over in this way. Of course, this is always the element of the common sense of society. I think we can do this. This is the scientific advice we're getting. I've spoken to the intelligent lockdown before, the targeted lockdown you might say. You then focus much more on the people who are at home and not only sneeze and have other cold problems, but also be distressed or have fever. Then the whole family stays home. That is instead of the measure that all healthy people should stay at home. You have to be very specific in what you say. In the children we also rely on the scientific advice. It is quite something to say that they are not allowed to play outside at all. Well, that's actually the alternative. If you didn't do this, you'd say kids shouldn't be playing outside. That goes a long way, too. Many people live in very small apartments or apartments with barely a balcony and no garden. If the scientific advice says that this can be done and we all use our common sense, I think it is wise that we have adopted it in this way. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to a few other questions. I think we can do this very quickly. I answered the question about campsites and holiday parks. That is not a national policy, but it is up to the security regions to deal with it. If hygiene measures are not followed or the 1.5 m distance is at risk of becoming a problem, holiday parks, campsites, parks, nature reserves and beaches must be closed down. As far as borders are concerned, the transport of goods and cross-border workers is, at least for the most part, carried out. That's very important. I spoke to the Belgian colleague on Friday and yesterday with the German Chancellor on this matter. The transport of goods is very important. The supply chains, the flows of goods are needed. Just look at the construction of ventilators that Hugo de Jonge will discuss in a moment. International trade flows must be maintained because they are produced in a variety of regions. The same applies to medicines and the functioning of the general economy. It is also very important that a nurse who works in Aachen or someone from Kleef who works in Nijmegen can cross the border, in this case between Belgium and the Netherlands and between Germany and the Netherlands. Oh, yeah, yeah, I realize there's been scaled down in the O.V. It is true that the travel planners and the websites try to adapt quickly and make sure that the latest connection information is available. We checked that again. But it is indeed inevitable that occasional problems of connection arise in the event of such a scaled timetable. That is very annoying, but once again, the websites can of course help with that. Then there is the question of outstanding accounts of SMEs and SMEs. The government is already obliged to apply e-invoicing at the request of creditors. These invoices will be paid almost immediately if all the requirements are met. Unfortunately, not all creditors use e-invoicing. We urge governments, also along this road, to pay as quickly as possible. I take this point very much to heart. Then there's emergency legislation. At the moment, the Public Health Act, the Security Regions Act and the Municipal Act provide us with the basis for, for example, Monday's package and how it translates into local emergency regulations, so that is enough for the existing legal framework. To date, emergency legislation at the state level has not proved necessary. If it is, we will, of course, consider it immediately and discuss it with you, but it has not yet been discussed at that time. In reply to written questions, the Minister for Justice and Security also addressed the issue of emergency law enforcement. There is no question of its application at the moment either, so these two things do not need to be done now. If so, we will immediately connect with you. Then there is the question of aid to vulnerable countries such as South Sudan, North Korea, Yemen and Syria and other issues. The Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation is working on this. There will also be a letter to the Chamber on emergency aid. Nationally, all activities within the Dutch OS budget are now under review. Worldwide, we are contributing in a generic way to international organisations, both humanitarian and development-oriented. This is increasingly used for the reaction to corona, Covid-19. The organisations also make their own considerations in this regard. The UN released a Global Humanitarian Response Plan yesterday. For Europe, the available financial space in this area is being looked at. There is a tremendous amount of work to be done to bring the Dutch back abroad. I know that there is a lot of discussion because we are asking for a small own contribution, out of my mind €300 in Europe and €900 if you come from outside Europe. I think it's really reasonable for us to ask. It doesn't have to be paid in advance either. It is possible to settle it later via collection. We're really trying to get everyone back. If it really doesn't work out, we try to help organise safe stays elsewhere if possible. Mr. Chairman. I therefore believe that I have answered all the questions not raised by the VWS Minister. I see one person walking mad at the microphone. Not angry, but... I have a few questions about enforcement in the State and a second question... In any case, I promised to answer two more questions before the second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u99	Not angry, but concerned about a great deal, including the failure to communicate that events and meetings would be prohibited until 1 June. I see that several rooms and institutions have cancelled things. But the legal basis for this seemed to have expired later, because it turned out to be different. Does the cabinet have that on the retina? I understand the call is... Look, from the measure until 6 April, I can imagine that it should be extended. Can we have that clarity today?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u100	No. I have just said, in response to a question from Mr Jetten, that there can be no misunderstanding about licensing and/or reporting events. They are prohibited until 1 June. All other meetings are prohibited until 6 April. There may have been a misunderstanding about that. We'll see where that happens. I just promised. I can't answer it in detail right now. I haven't been able to figure that out yet, but we're going to look at it, obviously also in relation to the answer to the question: what do you do with the whole package after 6 April?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u101	I have a question about my announced motion in the second term on the controversial explanation of subjects. I was very curious to see if the Prime Minister could look back on two issues that have taken place over the past period, namely the opening of accession negotiations with Albania and the new nitrogen measures. Does he not agree with me that this should not actually be in a democracy if Parliament does not meet at that time? And is he not also of the opinion that my proposal is very good to say as quickly as possible: boys, as long as the Chamber does not meet, we are not going to make decisions on these kinds of controversial issues?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u102	That's not always possible. I'm sorry, but I can't always do that. Honestly, in my agenda, I am also working on nothing but corona. On the one hand I am in close contact with Hugo de Jonge and Martin van Rijn for the medical part. On the other hand, I am in close contact with the Troika Wiebes, Hoekstra and Koolmees for the whole economic and social package. So I also see that I do nothing else. It has to be at this stage, but some things are going on. There are legal and social reasons why you can't shut everything down completely. The question then is, of course, how do we properly segregate that in traffic with the Chamber. There's constant consultation about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u103	However, there are a lot of issues on which you can say: we are not going to take a decision on this now. I understand that some things go through in a general sense. But do you agree in principle with me that it is appropriate now for the government not to take any or as few decisions as possible that have an impact on society, because the Chamber does not meet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u104	But I can't always do that. There are of course all kinds of...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u105	But in principle?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u106	Basically, we're trying to... We don't have time for other things at all. Everyone, the whole cabinet is in the stand of course: fighting the virus. But whether we are talking about Urgenda, pensions, the elaboration of the pension agreement, nitrogen or Albania, European decision-making will also continue. You can't always shut that down completely. I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u107	Maybe in abundance. We have asked the Cabinet to draw up a list of proposals and legislation requiring urgent treatment and legislative proposals that may be possible in the longer term. In the end, that is decided in the Chamber as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u108	Koolmees and Schouten are working hard on this within the cabinet, in close consultation with colleagues. That should be here by now, or it'll be here very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u109	This week, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u110	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u111	Another question about the approach taken. Yesterday we were very briefed by Mr Van Dissel and Mr Gommers. I assume the Minister knows the charts as well. We saw that until 23 March, sometime around 3, 4 April, the approach would lead to a shortage of ic capacity; hence, it has been adapted. When was it clear to the Prime Minister that this approach would not lead to the desired effect? What were the variables that worked out differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u112	There's no answer to that. The Minister of Health is so full of questions about capabilities, personal protective equipment and the ic. But make no mistake. It's not just the ic. It's also times three, times four for the regular hospital beds because of corona. So it is much more than just the ic, but the ic is of course very pregnant because of the ventilation equipment. He's about to go into that. But this question cannot be answered in a general sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u113	I'm really gonna repeat it. Again, an approach has been adopted. This approach was widely supported and provided for a flattening, flatting the curve. Yesterday it was reported that it was apparent that the approach would lead at some point to a shortage of ic capacity. That is why it was said on 23 March: we are going to take a number of further measures. My question to the Prime Minister is quite clear. When did the Prime Minister know that this approach would not lead to the desired effect and what were the variables that otherwise worked out?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u114	I don't understand the question, honestly. There is a whole package of measures to ensure that corona does not spread in a way that affects the elderly and the vulnerable. the care overloaded. You can't just get it all out of the way, so you have to check it to the maximum. That is the strategy we follow on the basis of all the expert advice. In there, you're constantly steering the hospital capacity, and we still are. You take all the measures that have to ensure that the case eventually flattens. I think yesterday RIVM showed a very careful first green blade here and there that things seem to work. I'm very careful to take over, because I'm not expert enough and because I don't believe it until it's real and there are a lot of green blades of grass. The RIVM has more insight into this from the modeling of course and now actually has data on the basis of which they say: we expect a higher probability of flattening. But again, we continue to plan and prepare as if it were not yet so. We know that sometimes it can take two weeks for a corona contamination to be really noticeable. In a lot of cases, people stay home. In many cases nothing else happens but indeed heavy flu. The people who get very seriously ill go to the hospital, often with a few days' delay. If they're in the hospital, there's a few days' delay before they go to the ICUs. So there's always a delay, also a delay between the steps contamination, getting sick, to the hospital, to the ic. According to all models, the need for hospital capacity is expected to increase widely and specifically in the coming days due to corona. We knew that, too. We're working hard on that. If all the measures do what we expect, and again, the first green blades of grass were there yesterday, but we continue to plan as if they were not there, then that should also be noticeable in the coming days.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u115	Then there's your fifth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u116	Yes, the fifth question, because I don't get a clear answer. What has been the basis for these further measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u117	Well, further measures... On Monday we did not take any new measures. On Monday we said: listen, because of the testing policy it is important to give an additional indication to society that you will not only stay at home in case of flu symptoms, but that the whole family will stay at home if there is trouble and/or fever. If one of those members of the family has a function in a vital sector such as health care, police, fire brigades, ambulances, etc., then that person will go to work, unless that person has distress and fever problems. Two. On Monday, we announced a whole package to maintain the measures taken much more strictly. That's what we're seeing at the events we were just talking about. This is due to the competence of security regions to close beaches and holiday parks under special circumstances. That has been necessary partly on the occasion of this weekend. The question that was also asked by the Party for Animals was whether we should not have done so already Saturday. Well, of course, here you rely on the advice of the OMT. We released the alert of "hold distance" to all phone calls in the Netherlands on Sunday. It was received by 13 million people. Based on the insights of the weekend, we made the decisions we made on Monday, on the basis of the scientific advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u118	Nevertheless, I would like to mention that point of possible emergency legislation or measures. I saw a message from the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State that urgent legislation has been announced on the issue of tenants and house expulsions. My question is simply whether it would be wrong, if there were a certain emergency law on a sub-area, to look as wide as possible so that we could deal with it as a Chamber at once, if necessary. This may concern the administration of justice or other parts and time limits.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u119	That's what we're gonna try. The point is, of course, that a lot of existing legislation has special, rapid procedures in cases of crisis. That is the existing legislation. That's actually your first circle. We're working in there now. This includes, for example, the Public Health Act, which gives the Minister of Health a great deal of opportunity to issue guidance, guidance and guidelines, for example on flights from Spain that are no longer allowed to go to the Netherlands and all that sort of thing. That is also the basis under the whole emergency regulation that has been in place since Monday. This may not be enough and specific emergency legislation may still be needed. What Mr Van der Staaij is suggesting is to cluster as much as possible. Let me take that suggestion. I can't promise that it always works, because sometimes it's gonna have to be very fast, but I get the suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u120	On the point raised by Mr Baudet. I find his solution to explain everything controversial, not correct, but we have seen a few times come across that the cabinet seems to be looser in dealing with the Chamber. Can the Prime Minister promise that this is perhaps even more important than in the normal situation.... the Chamber will be informed on time, for example when it comes to European decision-making, and that the Chamber will be able to find something of it, by written consultation or, if necessary, by tabling a motion? We still have to discuss how to do that physically. It is, of course, very important that the cabinet does not take decisions without the Chamber having an opportunity to say something about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u121	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u122	The question of how to obtain protective equipment will be put to the Minister of Health in a moment. I do think that the Prime Minister, who is now done with his first term, should say something about that. He was visiting one of the hospitals in the fireplaces in Brabant last week, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u123	That's where the health minister was, not me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u124	Oh, I thought you were there too. You were yesterday or the day before yesterday...?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u125	I was at Erasmus MC yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u126	At least you've met people in health care who work with this. I also think that the Dutch Prime Minister should say that it is unacceptable that all those people in the care, which we all cherish here, from whatever party we are, should now often work, from home care to disability care, from neighbourhood care to hospital care, without protective equipment. That they get sick, that they get corona themselves. That they don't even know that at first and that they're infecting other people again. If we really respect those people, then we must ensure that they are given protection. I'm not asking the Prime Minister how he's gonna do that. I'll ask the other minister in a moment. I ask the Prime Minister: do you not think it is a disgrace and unacceptable that these people should now do their job without masks and other protective equipment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u127	Above all, I think we should do everything in our power to ensure that this stuff is made available. I can give all kinds of political qualifications here, but that concerns me from a later point of view. I don't think we need to convince each other that you want there to be enough protective equipment, for everyone who needs it, that you want there to be enough ventilation equipment. I can assure Mr Wilders one thing. Over the last few days and over the last few weeks, we have been working on nothing but this subject, European-wide. Testing is a European problem, a global problem in part, but certainly also a European problem. There has been a tremendous amount of work on protective equipment. There's a whole team at VWS just on those personal protective equipment. You can see now that the current of those things is starting to get going. That's incredibly important. I totally agree with Wilders. I could use some really heavy words here, but I think someone in a nursing home or in the ggz or in a hospital wants that stuff to get there. We're working on that. I think that is more important than all of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u128	These are not political qualifications. This is human work. This is human work! There are now thousands, perhaps tens of thousands of people who go to the elderly in the nursing homes, who go to the disabled in the care of the disabled, who go to the people at home in the care of the home, who work in the hospitals, who take risks and who now get sick, who get sick because there are simply no mouth caps for them. I've had e-mails. We'll have them all... from people who say, Mr. Wilders, we're coughing and tasting, and I'm told by my boss that if the people have corona, I still have to go there without a mouth cap. You can't, Mr. Prime Minister! So I'm not asking for big political words. I ask you to speak now, because those people are watching television now, if they have all the time you think it is unacceptable, every day it takes longer, that they should do their job without protective equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u129	I think they should be able to count on Hugo de Jonge, Martin van Rijn and I to do nothing but make sure that this stuff is there. Fortunately, there has been a lot of improvement in the last few days. We're starting to see the power coming on. Hugo de Jonge will tell you more about that in a moment. That's what I want to tell the people who are going through this. That seems relevant to me. I could use some very heavy words here, but what will I do to help those in home care who would like to have that mouth cap now and perhaps not have access to it now? That is not just a Dutch problem. That is a European problem. The whole of the European Union is in the process of increasing production and ensuring that distribution is started. There were problems between European countries where stocks of these items were not carried out in Europe. That was, of course, scandalous and unacceptable. The Netherlands had little or no own production of such resources. We're building all that up. So that's being worked on incredibly hard. I think that's what people need to belong to. I totally agree with Wilders. You want everyone just to be maximum protected, protected, able to do their job. That is what we must achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u130	I believe that the Prime Minister is at the end of his reply, but I had not yet heard an answer to my first-term question as to what this European solidarity would look like. The Prime Minister has also stressed a number of times its importance that, because the virus does not comply with the borders, you also need Europe to come up with these solutions. After this debate, the Prime Minister will hold a video conference with his fellow Heads of Government. Then my question would be: how can the Netherlands help other European countries in the field of public health and economic support, and what help do we expect from other countries to cope with the crisis? On what points should we perhaps also give the European Commission a little more powers to manage this crisis properly at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u131	There's a few layers in there. One is that not all countries base their policies entirely on scientific advice. There are also countries that do so much more politically. Those are just differences in culture. It is also sometimes that countries simply do not have central organisations like RIVM. There is European cooperation between national RIVMs, but it is not perfect because healthcare is not a European competence. So that means that we spend a great deal of time coordinating scientific information as much as possible, and that these organisations do so among themselves, also through European frameworks, in order to at least agree on what we do and what we do not know and on what we base the policy on. That's awfully important. I was just talking to Mr Wilders about personal protective equipment. It is, of course, unacceptable for countries where there is production to say: their own people first. If there is production in a particular country, I understand very well that people are taking a good look at the situation there, but it cannot be true that you are blocking lorries with personal protective equipment at the border so that they cannot drive through. Fortunately, this is happening much less now or is almost gone. It's been worked awfully hard and on the phone. We haven't done much other than pull out that kind of idiotry. What is the meaning of a European Union if we are already unable to divide mouth caps? Then there's the economic component. The flexibility offered by the Stability and Growth Pact has been fully released. The flexibility contained in the European budget has been fully released. The ECB launched a huge package last week. We can find anything we want. I'm not commenting on it. It's here. In any case, it has reduced the spreads on a number of government bonds. What we are discussing today is how we can continue to use the European budget for this kind of thing. Here and there the thoughts of Eurobonds live. I really do not see what they are going to do to solve this crisis. So we are not in favour of that, but a whole group of countries is not in favour of that and does not see what that would contribute. Of course, we are looking at exactly how to use the ESM for this if necessary. But you can only do that once or twice, because then it's also empty. So you have to do it at the right time. Fortunately, you also see consensus growing in Europe on how to use such instruments. Of course, a number of countries that are now heavily affected have already experienced imbalances in the economy before this crisis. Of course, you're not going to complain about that now, because you have to help the countries now, I understand that, but you want these countries to be able to cope with it as much as possible for the longer term in the event of a subsequent crisis. The Netherlands is currently able to borrow 65 billion at almost no interest. That's what you're actually giving all the countries. But once again, there is no point in saying: you should have and should have. I understand that, but you can't just leave it out. However, you must ensure that you maintain the logic that all countries must ultimately have shock-resistant economies in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u132	I would also like to ask the Prime Minister about these protective equipment. I understand that we are about to hear from Minister De Jonge what the cabinet is doing to get those protective equipment as quickly as possible. However, I think it is really important that the Prime Minister should also make a statement on this, not only because those caregivers now have to take the lead in the fight against the corona virus with risks to their own health, and that may be the reason why I am most moved by the fact that their own health is at stake, but also because of their vulnerable target group. That also makes the question relevant to the Prime Minister, because this question raises the question of how we can stop and defeat the virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u133	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u134	If caregivers go out unprotected, and that happens as we speak, then that does not contribute to stopping the virus at all. Every hour and every day, caregivers go out with insufficient protection, including corona patients. I have already said it in my own term: for that reason, I really think that we should pledge here today as a Chamber that we will not allow another day to pass when we send people into the field unprotected. I hope the Prime Minister will agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u135	But I don't want to sell tubers for lemons either. I believe that Mrs Marijnissen and I agree with each other for a thousand percent. I agree with her whole argument. It is crucial that everyone has access to protective equipment in order to be able to do their job safely. You can stay corona-free yourself, but you can't spread corona either. I am very impressed with her by the people in the care who sometimes do their job with too little personal protective equipment in these very difficult circumstances. Having said that, it is not the case that this whole business is suddenly filled with protective equipment. That requires practically all the actions we are doing. I sincerely believe I wouldn't know what more we can come up with than we already do. That's what's gonna get that power going now. In recent weeks, and especially last week, Hugo de Jonge, Bruno Bruins and now Martin van Rijn have been working on personal protective equipment for some time. I'll help you wherever I can. If I am asked this question, it is right. It's something that's always at the top of the list for me, along with the ventilators and the test capacity. It's those three things every time. Of these three, personal protective equipment seems to be moving fastest. That supply chain's starting to kick in right now. I totally agree with that, but I do not want to give the impression that it will be completely resolved tomorrow. I'm afraid that's not the case. I can't promise that here, because I can't fuck these things here right now. We have to make them real and import them. This is all happening on a large scale.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u136	You made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u137	There is no doubt that by saying this, we would disagree on this urgency. We're in complete agreement on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u138	Thank you for agreeing on the urgency, but I think that the caregivers have so little use for that at the moment. The intentions and the beautiful words are fantastic, but I think people are looking for a guarantee that they can do their job safely. The raw reality now is that we just send caregivers into the field every day. The least we can do is make sure they can do their job safely. We can do anything. We have proposed that these things should be advanced at companies that may still have them, in chemistry, in painters, in training institutes or in other places; I do not care. We're turning our hands blue for the caregivers and we agreed here last week that they'll all get a bonus. That is fantastic and they deserve it, but they also deserve the Prime Minister saying today: we are going to solve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u139	Yeah, but I also think I shouldn't be selling bullshit in a crisis. I can guarantee we'll do everything we can. There's a whole team on it at VWS and everything's being looked at. De Jonge will thus address the pros and cons of a claim. It also has disadvantages. You should also be careful that it doesn't backfire. He'll go into that in a minute. So we do all these things. Suppose I would say 'I guarantee that everyone will have enough equipment from tomorrow', when we know that there are shortages throughout Europe. Look at the discussion in England, Germany and everywhere about personal protective equipment, testing capacity and ventilators, and that it is therefore a hell of a job that everyone is working hard to get it done, then I must also guarantee it. I can now guarantee that we will do everything in our power and that I agree with Mrs Marijnissen that this is an absolute top priority. This is what we are constantly working on: test material, personal protective equipment and lung machines.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u140	I have a question about working at home. There is still a great deal of uncertainty for a lot of people. The advice is to work at home as much as possible. It is clear, of course, that in certain professions it is not possible to work at home. But there are also many people who state that their employer simply wants them to come to the office. There are also more and more media reports about this. Their employer forces them to work in the office, but those people are afraid they're gonna get infected. Where can these people read their rights and where can people report if the employer does not comply with the advice given by RIVM?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u141	I'll answer that question in second term, otherwise I'm going to improvise now, even if I think I have the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u142	So here's what you'll get back to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u143	Yes. I would like to answer the other two questions very briefly, because I am not quite sure if I am standing here myself. A question was asked about a one-stop shop for questions from civil society organisations. That was a question from Mr Segers. If they report to the public telephone information point, they will consider how to help them further. So for them too, a first entrance is the information point public telephone. From there it is then led further to where it should go. We see that the umbrella organisations are also in the process of informing their people. The other question was that of Mr Baudet on public transport. That image will be recognized. For me, it was in that fierce news, but the police recognize the image that Mr Baudet sketched. The police are increasingly detecting incidents in public space, but also in public transport, including with young people. The police intervene in this kind of incident. An emergency regulation now also empowers the boas who supervise public transport to intervene. So this is what we're acting on. Thanks for the signal, but it was known to the police with the same intensity and there is an act on it. Then the question remains about people who want to work at home because they are concerned. I or Mr De Jonge will answer that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u144	I didn't want to ask for it at first, but now it's coming back. Yesterday there was one emergency regulation in force here in South Holland, not yet. The Prime Minister has just said that the police are acting against young people who, for example, behave badly in public space. So that emergency regulation is not yet in force everywhere, even more so, but in one place in the country; that was last night's stand. Can the police intervene, enforce and also pass fines?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u145	I think the police can just maintain when young people don't behave, so if they start spitting or causing trouble. That does not require these emergency regulations. As regards the specific emergency regulation relating to the Monday package, it is fully completed today and implemented by all regions as soon as possible. Everyone is also going to implement the same emergency regulation as regards the commandments. As regards the need to act in special circumstances, such as the holiday parks and so on, it can still be looked at regionally. But as far as the things that need to be done are concerned, they do. But I can assume that the police do not need this emergency regulation to act against young people who cause nuisance on the train? That can simply be dealt with. I will double-check that and ask Mr De Jonge to take that with me in second term. I'd be surprised if you could just kick shit on the train and then we'd need an emergency regulation to block it. We live in a strange country and perhaps Mr. Klaver has discovered something I didn't know. Mr De Jonge will comment on that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u146	Thank you. Then we'll just wait a minute. I shall now give the floor to the Minister for Health, who is always brief and concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u147	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps you should coach me a little bit today, as Mr Bosma always does, as some sort of short-sightedness coach. Mr. Chairman. I start with the layout of the blocks in which I want to answer my questions. I'll start with national coordination later. Then the beds and testing. Then I come to the personal protective equipment, the vulnerable groups, education and another block of varia. Before I start, I would like to make a few preliminary remarks. The first-term introductions by the various group chairmen were not only very impressive, but also very recognizable stories. That draws the bizarre picture of the situation or the time we're in. Who could have thought a few months ago that Mr Krol's statement that the pinnacle of humanity is to keep our distance would be very recognizable to everyone? Or the situation Mr Van der Staaij outlined, that it is no longer possible for an older man to hold the hand of his dementing wife? For everyone this is because of the stories we get, a very recognizable feature of the personal situation in which people are in. That draws the bizarre part of time. They are totally bizarre performances, but at the same time recognizable. The story of Mrs. Marijnissen, that you have to choose who goes to a funeral or not, you have to imagine. We couldn't have imagined all that a few months ago. And that's the time we're in. It is also a time when everyone rightly speaks with great gratitude about all the care workers we can count on, of which we see how they stand in the front line. I am happy to deal with this later, because I agree with everything that has been said about it. A third comment. The Netherlands is counting on us, says Mr Segers. That's how everyone experiences it, I think. My colleague Bruno Bruins felt the same way. It was a week ago in this place that we were all terrified when Bruno Bruins could not continue the debate. Bruno has given everything to guide the Netherlands through this crisis over the past few weeks. I have great admiration and great respect for that. I hope he recovers quickly. I think it's exactly as he pointed out earlier: let's pay a little attention to each other at this time; we here, as we work with each other, we in the cabinet, we in the department. Really impressive how incredibly hard all those departments are being worked on and certainly at the VWS ministry. Day and night there's the light on. Day and night, people work through that at home. There, double shifts are made as if it were nothing; really very, very impressive. A little eye on each other and that also brings me to the answer of your questions, because we have to look out for each other in the Netherlands. Watching each other is also at the heart of our approach, namely to ensure that we protect our most vulnerable people, protect our vulnerable older people and ensure that care remains able to cope with this huge increase in the number of patients. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with national coordination. I agree with what has been said. Last week, we saw in Brabant that the expulsion of patients was starting to get stuck. It was necessary to evict patients, but that didn't go fast enough, that went hard, that had to be leaned way too much. That's not the way it's supposed to work. For that reason, last week we had an intrusive conversation with the people in Brabant, everyone involved. Work was incredibly hard, but it didn't work. That was the reason we offered military support in Brabant to help with that logistics operation. That worked out, and that gave us a little air. More than 200 patients have now been posted elsewhere in the country. That gave a little air in the hospitals there, and you'll see right away. I was there on Saturday, and you'll see. We have also concluded that things are not going well by themselves, so there must be national coordination or a national coordination centre. This was also agreed by the inspector-general and the chairman of the National Network of Acute Care, Ernst Kuipers. Last Monday, the construction of a national coordination centre was started, also with the help and support of the Defense Department. That national coordination centre is concerned with patient distribution and coordination of transport, but it can also deal with other issues. I think that's close. This has to do with the fact that we not only have ic capacity to realize or have patients to move, but also have other bed capacity to realize. That too is Brabant's lesson. Some of the patients end up on the ic, but a much larger part doesn't come on the ic. That's a factor three to four, the Prime Minister said. It's starting to look more like a factor 4. Then we know that not only the ic capacity is crucial but also the non-ic capacity. You won't be able to realize that in every regional hospital. That probably means relocating localities. In addition to national coordination, we have also asked the Director of Public Health to give an idea of the need to increase hospital capacity. We expect to get that picture of another type of care capacity in hospitals today or tomorrow. Based on that, we're looking at where extra localities need to be built. The military can help with that, too. In addition, in every region, Defence supports acute care in logistics and in the implementation of planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u148	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u149	Are you still here, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u150	No, I'm fine. All questions relating to ic capacity at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u151	I'll do Ic capacity in the next block. This is just national coordination. On the basis of this overview, we will determine what further support is needed in the region. In short, national coordination, yes, certainly. This is not always a question of new or different powers. Nor is it always a matter of bringing a code of conduct under your arm, into the region, to make sure you get it done. It's often a matter of just getting the phone. The first question is: I see things aren't going well, can I help you? If it doesn't work out, the second question is: I see it's not going well, I'm here to help you. Then it's not really a question anymore. That's how we're gonna do it for the next few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u152	Now I want to know how you build up your speech, so that Members of Parliament...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u153	This was about national coordination. I wanted to go to the beds now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u154	What did you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u155	I wanted to go to the beds now. This was national coordination as far as I was concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u156	And what else do you have?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u157	That's what I just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u158	I see you're going through that a little bit, but that's okay. Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u159	I'm sticking very tight to my own iron order, Mr. Chairman. That is 1. national coordination, 2. beds, 3. tests, 4. personal protective equipment, 5. vulnerable groups, 6. education and 7. varia.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u160	Then I would suggest that we do the subject of beds now. After that, the MPs will have every opportunity to intervene. A few MPs don't have that many interruptions anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u161	Fine. The beds. One of the most crucial anchors in our approach is to ensure that the care can handle it, to ensure that care stays in the legs and to ensure that the bed capacity is in order. That is exciting, said Mr Gommers at the hearing yesterday. I'll share that with him. Of course it's exciting. Whether it will succeed will depend on the effectiveness of the measures. RIVM said a number of things about this yesterday. Yes, we do see that the reproductive factor is decreasing. That's important. Yes, we do see that the number of new recordings in hospitals is flattening. That's important, too. But, as the Prime Minister just said, those are the first slices of green grass. We're not going to conclude that it's spring. We're going to plan for heavy weather. That is what we are doing, although of course we hope that the effectiveness of the measures means that it will not be the red curve from the overview in the presentation of the RIVM, but a lower, flattened curve. Of course we hope so. Still, we're planning for the heavy weather. Two. Of course it becomes exciting in the planning of capacity. We know that it is expected that based on the red line, the ic capacity for corona patients would demand about 1,100 beds around 1 April, with a peak of about 1,700 beds in May. That's the red line. Even though we hope it will not be the red line, you have to take that into account. About the number of beds we have, yesterday I indicated that the ic capacity is currently being expanded to about 1,500 beds. Of these, 575 are needed for regular emergency care. With that, there are about 925 available for corona patients. On top of that, the Department of Defense has made some 40 ventilators available. The independent clinics have made some seventy devices available. We have now ordered several thousand devices abroad. We are also working with industry to set up our own production line of appliances in the Netherlands. That development is moving fast. Next week, the first prototype will be clinically tested. We have now placed an order for 500 of these devices at the company DEMCON, in a consortium with other companies in the Netherlands. In short, we will make every effort in the near future to ensure sufficient bed capacity. In addition, the medical world itself looks at what is possible. Last night, the NVIC, the Dutch Association for Intensive Care, published a manual to help two patients on one ventilator in an emergency. That's not ideal. You want to try to stop it. But if you have to, it's nice that you can. It's already being done abroad at the moment. The NVIC sent information about this to its members yesterday. In short, we work with man and power and do everything possible to ensure sufficient ic-capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u162	And this answers all the first-term questions on this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u163	No, more questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u164	Then I'd answer that, too. You will have the floor in a moment, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u165	Okay. I'll just keep browsing. Mr Krol has asked: will it not be that age limits will eventually apply? I understand that question very well. That is why we are working with man and power on sufficient ic-capacity. That, of course, is why Gommers said here in the hearing yesterday: I find it exciting over the next few weeks. It's exactly for that reason. Obviously, it is not up to a cabinet to set age limits. You referred to a motion, which I believe has been supported by the House. Of course, it is not up to a cabinet to set age limits. I do know that the NVIC itself is in the process of doing so. Yesterday, there was also a report on the use of a manual, a professional directive: what if it comes to that? I think that's the domain of medical professionals to prepare that type of medical-ethical decisions. We are preparing for the worst that could happen. Medical professionals do the same, of course, in which they make decisions in a weighted way and respect survival, not age. That's all in line you'd like to see, and all of us. But once again, all our efforts are aimed at preventing this. Two on one machine is not ideal, but it also helps to prevent that situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u166	Good. That's it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u167	I guess I've had most of the questions with this, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u168	I shall go first to Mrs Marijnissen, then to Mr Klaver, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u169	I do not think the Minister will answer the key question here today. We did hear Gommers from the hospitals at the hearing yesterday. His story was very clear: on April 1st, next week, 1,600 ic-beds are needed. He was very concerned about whether that could be arranged and said: it must be arranged by the end of the day. So that was yesterday. So the question that I think needs to be answered here is: is it settled and are there 1,600 ic-beds on 1 April?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u170	That was a specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u171	1,600 is a confusing figure, because this includes regular beds for emergency care. The 1,100 I just mentioned are the 1,100 corona beds that RIVM also takes into account in planning. In the red curve of the planning of the RIVM it is about 1,100 beds around April 1st and a peak of 1,700 beds around the end of May. The question of whether this will be the case by the end of May is, of course, the most uncertain, because it depends entirely on the effectiveness of the measures. Next week's 1,100 beds would be exclusive of the beds needed for regular emergency care. So it only depends on what regular emergency care will be needed. That depends on the number of heart attacks and car accidents. So everything is connected. If you sell the 1,100 beds from around April 1st against the scaling up of capacity to 1,500 beds for the total ic capacity, then we have 925 corona beds left. In addition, we have the 40 DOD ventilators, there are the devices of the independent clinics and we have ordered several thousand devices, which you should not suspect for a moment next week and you will eventually have the option of two on one device. In short, if we put everything on top of everything... the sausage case would indeed be that next week 1,100 beds are needed for corona... I think we're going to make it, but it's exciting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u172	This is unbelievable, isn't it? The hospital man, Mr Gommers, was very clear yesterday. He said it would take 1,600 on April 1st. Of course, this is largely for corona and also for regular emergency care. But we can't say here in the Netherlands: boys, next week no car accidents or even no heart failure? Of course it will continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u173	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u174	With your permission, I rely on the expert who says that 1,600 ic-beds will be needed next week. But we are not getting any guarantees here today that it has been settled, whereas yesterday's call was very clear, namely that it should have been settled yesterday. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u175	No misunderstanding: the order is given to scale up to the maximum number of beds. That's what we're after. That is precisely what the national coordination centre is doing. The order to scale up to the maximum number of beds is thus given. But I'm gonna be honest with you about the numbers as they are. Let me outline to you what options are actually available for the coming period, underlining and illustrating what Gommers said, namely that it is indeed exciting, but also that we are doing everything we can to ensure that we have as much ic capacity as possible. If we failed to do so, then what the NVIC itself brought out yesterday, and what is already being done in other countries, namely two on one device, is also a possibility in an extreme emergency. But that's not what we're counting on. We make sure that we do the best we can to have those beds realized in the shortest possible time. The order has been given. The orders have been placed. Everything, everything, everything has been prepared to maximize that ic capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u176	It is your fifth question, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u177	That's right, and I didn't plan to, but I still hear the Minister saying here that it's going to be exciting. After the call that came out of the hospitals so clearly yesterday and after the deadline that it should be settled, which was set yesterday, we had all hoped to hear in this debate today that it was regularly. But what we're told is, yes, it's exciting. It's exciting for everyone in the Netherlands right now. Everyone's worried about family, about friends. Are you getting sick? Aren't you gonna get sick? Can I still do my job safely? But then we come back to this point: at least we have to make sure that we do what we can to ensure that the materials are there and that there are enough ic-beds?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u178	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u179	But today we're still told it's gonna be exciting. That's impossible, isn't it? We can't break up here today and wait and see how things turn out. So I would like to know from the Minister who is ultimately responsible for this in the coming days. Because I hear all kinds of coordination teams and crisis teams are being rigged up. DOD's involved, too. But is the Minister of Health ultimately responsible? Is that the Secretary of Defense? Are those the regional hospitals? Is that the Prime Minister? Who's gonna cut the finals in the next few days?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u180	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u181	The Minister, indeed! I do. Of course, I'll do that with Bruno Bruins, who's in charge of medical care. Oh, excuse me, Mr. Chairman. Let me rephrase: I do that with colleague Van Rijn, of course. So you do not have to care about any coordination structure. You may address us. We are in a position to do so. But of course we cannot break iron with our hands. I would like to emphasise the following. Look, we have to be honest with each other. I can of course say: "Yes, but you also heard what RIVM said yesterday?" After all, the number of new hospitalisations is flattering. That's important. We could also say: 'Yes, but you have also heard that the ROAZ President has said that they think they are going to make it in Brabant'. There too, the number of new hospitalisations is decreasing. But that's not what we're doing. We're deliberately not doing that. We do, of course, see the few rays of sunshine in the sky, but we also say what Mr Van der Staaij says, namely that we do see them against an extremely black background. That is why we are preparing ourselves for the heavy weather that may be coming. This means that we are simply preparing for that steep red line of the RIVM, despite the fact that we naturally hope that that line flattens slightly. That's what we're planning. That is why we are really going to limit the maximum amount of capacity that is possible in terms of the maximum amount of capacity. Everything is focused on this, both in the purchase of equipment and in other places in the country to transport hospitals of other equipment, and in the making of new equipment as well as in the start-up of a production line. Everything, everything, everything is aimed at providing enough Ice Beds. And if that doesn't work with the number of ventilators, according to the NVIC, it's even possible to nurse two patients on one device. Of course, this cannot always be done, and it must be done under a number of conditions: it must be good care, the inspection will monitor and so on. But under a number of conditions it is possible to nurse two patients on one device. In short, everything, but everything is really meant to make sure we're going to make it. That's the honest story, and that's how I have to tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u182	Sometimes the honest story isn't enough. This is the reality: scaling up faster than this is not going to work in the Netherlands. But there is indeed more capacity available in neighbouring countries. Look at Germany. Look at Belgium. I know about all kinds of regional initiatives. But I want to know what the Minister is doing to ensure that beds are available in those places, even next week. Because I don't think there is anyone in the Netherlands who demands that those beds should be in hospital X or Y or that those beds should necessarily be in the Netherlands, if those people can be helped, even across the border. What does the Minister do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u183	We are also talking to Germany, to see if there would be overflowing capacity available at the time when there is really a shortage here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u184	Then Mr Van der Staaij. Oh, sorry. Mr. Clover?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u185	I believe that the impatience I taste with Mr Marijnissen and myself is in the following. "We're talking about it with Germany," we hear. It's not like this is happening all of a sudden. This was also the subject of last week's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u186	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u187	And the minister says we're waiting for the moment when there are real deficits. What we're trying to do to each other is get ahead of those deficits. That means you should be moving people from those intensive cares abroad by now, so we can keep the space here. What I would like to ask the Minister is this. I want a more detailed answer. What's going on? Who's talking to? At what level is this taking place in Germany? What possibilities are there? Because it's always said that we're in agreement. "We are in consultation" is not enough. I want that to be more concrete. And if the Minister can't do that now, I'd like to hear it through a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u188	I like doing that in a letter. Look, I'm deliberately reluctant to tell you who we're talking to at what time with what content. Usually it doesn't help much for the result if you start speculating freely about where it could possibly lead, with whom you all have discussions about it and what you're talking about in that consultation. There's contact with Germany. That's one. Two. This also applies, of course, to all other ways in which we try to get extra capacity to the Netherlands. The current occupation on the ic is 644. Then I'm talking about yesterday's score, end of day. Of course, that number will increase again today, but that means that at the moment there is really enough capacity for the patients. Mr Gommers' concern and qualification is exciting in the coming weeks. I understand that, too. That's what I'm sharing. That is why everything is aimed at providing more capacity in the coming weeks. If we think even further, you hope that you also got production facilities off the ground in the Netherlands. Here too, we are, truly in the fastest way I could think of, working with the industry that is capable of doing so, in order to start a new production line. In addition, devices have been ordered. The first prototypes run as well next week from the band. In short, everywhere, but really everywhere, we press any button that could help speed up the increase in ic-capacity in the Netherlands. That's exactly what it takes now. In the meantime, Mrs Marijnissen is right to ask me. I would like to know whether we are ready and whether we can reassure Mr Gommers. In fact, that was the question she asked. Then I feel obliged to answer this as honestly as possible, with the figures on which there is certainty now, and not with the possible ideas we are still working on and which do not yet lead to a certain extra place. So those are the numbers I just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u189	There is a man and power working to increase capacity in the hospitals for the corona patients. But of course there are also a lot of patients who do not end up going to the hospital. My question is this. What about the decision-making structure, if that is going to be much higher in the future? Is there also the possibility of going ahead with this and being able to say more directionally who is going to do what?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u190	That is a very fair question. When I was just talking about national coordination, I mentioned that the Directors of Public Health were commissioned by predecessor Bruins two weeks ago to identify locations that could be additional care locations. For example, it is about empty wings of nursing homes. Then it's about emergency locations in the sense of tent-like emergency hospitals. Then it's about care hotels that can be furnished. Then it is about the possible use of hotel facilities. The first care hotel is now open in Limburg. We have also made this a map which can also be used in the rest of the country. On the basis of this question to the Directors of Public Health, we want to see what would be needed. Where do we start? Where is the need to build and carry? Defense is available to support that. On the basis of this question, I see what role should be played by national coordination. But I do not miss the opportunity to set up national coordination. I think that is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u191	Good to hear, because at those Brabant hospitals we saw that there was a distribution plan, but that it took some time when it really had to happen. It's been learned so that we can move on faster, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u192	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u193	I would like to comment on coordination. Yesterday, we heard Mr Gommers, who very strongly stressed the need for an operation to be designed with a military approach and with military precision. I was shocked that he had to underline that necessity. He's on the core team to help fight this crisis. He has a crucial function. If he underlines that necessity, it doesn't worry me any less. Where does his heart cry come from? Why is it still necessary to say that, even though we've been on the road for a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u194	I think from the observations of his colleagues from Brabant last weekend. For example, last week a Brabant hospital tried to transfer patients, but a number of hospitals were not only receptive to this. That might be the background, but that's guessing for me. Gommers has a point that needs to be coordinated at national level. Just because I think Gommers has a point there, last week, on the basis of the observations in Brabant, we first ensured that coordination in Brabant. That aired in Brabant. We said at the time: now it has to be done in Rotterdam. The construction started on Monday and the operation is today. Even our soldiers had never done it so quickly. That is also what seems to be possible in the Netherlands at the moment. The academic hospital world, let me say gracefully, is also one of the places of residence, but it is now also seen that there is an inevitable need to leave those places of residence for what they are and to consider cooperation more important than one's own place of residence. I believe that Gommers has contributed greatly to the sense of urgency among his colleagues. The operation we started from Rotterdam for the whole country does exactly what is needed now, and that is much more administrative, much more rural, giving much clearer guidance to patient relocations, patient distribution and hence capacity building of emergency hospitals if they were needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u195	We also heard Mr Gommers' oppressive reply when he was asked what happens when the border is reached. We need this coordination and it is now being taken up. Thank you for that. That must indeed be done with a management style that we are not quite used to in this country, but it is crisis, so it is urgently needed. But there's gonna be a line somewhere. When he was asked about it, it was very oppressive that he said: I don't know. Are there emergency scenarios, are there scenarios behind which... the minister just said something about two patients on one machine. That's kind of like an emergency scenario. Have any scenarios been developed for when it becomes very exciting at the end of May, beginning of June?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u196	I think we're in an emergency scenario. Of the regular 1,150 ic-beds, an average of 350 are structurally empty in the Netherlands. That has everything to do with the way we organized our care, but the normal average situation is therefore: 1,150 beds of which 350 are empty. Beds are purchased and so on. We are now talking about a situation of 1,500, 1,600 ic-beds in total, so more than one and a half times the capacity. And we look at, exploit all the possibilities that are conceivable in scaling it even further. That is the most highly scaled-up emergency scenario that is conceivable at all. Meanwhile, from the medical domain, from the professional domain, they say that, if all beds are occupied and there are still new patients to go to the ic, you can put two on one ventilator. I'd rather not, but it could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u197	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u198	That's another emergency scaling up. There's no plan you could think of that we haven't just implemented right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u199	My final question on this point. Last night I read a message from a doctor who works at the University Medical Center in Amsterdam. He said, "We've converted our bedroom into an ic, we've got the equipment, but we need codes, licenses, from Philips now." I thought that would be a good question for the debate. This morning I read that it's settled: Philips gave it to me. So you also see creativity in the workplace, a heartwarming commitment of a company like Philips to say: need breaks laws; we give those licenses. In this kind of emergency, does the Minister have the will, the perseverance, to take the phone, to call Philips or other manufacturers, to address anything that is necessary, to do whatever is possible with willingness on the job floor?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u200	Whatever it takes. Anything we need, we'll do it. Everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u201	The response to the ic capacity is not going well. We're gonna need to get it right. 15 March, in response to questions, the cabinet indicated that it was possible to scale to 1,500 beds within a few days. March 18th, Minister Bruins said he could do that in a day. March 20th, the cabinet indicated that we could do it in a few days and that we could go to 2,000 beds. I want the clear guarantee here: that was the question that Mrs Marijnissen also asked: that 1,500 has now been settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u202	Yes, that 1,500 is arranged or is arranged, as we speak. There's no limit to scaling it in no time to that 1,500. I saw that 2,000, too. That was based on an earlier ruling, I understand, from the NVIC. If you look very closely at beds and ventilation equipment, that 2,000 at the moment is not easy to realize. That really depends on a number of devices that aren't there yet, which aren't there yet. With that, the 2,000 is not easy to realize. The scaling up to the 1,500 and the additional devices that come with it, which leads you towards the 1,600, that's what's possible right now. These are the latest figures, as we received yesterday from the Dutch Coordination Centre.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u203	For a moment, I thought the Minister said, "Yes, that's settled." But then he said, as far as we know. We need to know by now. Yesterday morning, Gommers was very clear: the next week it will be exciting, because then those 1,600 beds are needed. The cabinet indicated on three previous occasions that this was a matter of days. Those three occasions are longer than a few days behind us. From the Chamber it has been called upon to take those decisions at that time. I want clarity: yes, the peak capacity that Gommers talked about yesterday and which is needed for next week, there is. I understand you need to work on that 2,000 or that 2,200.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u204	We're doing what I just told you to do. When it comes to the figures, the 1,500 beds are the realized capacity. The difference you indicate with the previous answers is that it has been said: within a few days it is possible to scale up to 1,500. That has everything to do with phasing out elective care, planned care, with which those 1,500 beds can be released very quickly in the short term. The equipment is there, the beds are there, the people are there et cetera. As far as these people are concerned, it is quite another question to have sufficiently trained people to do so. Those 1,500 beds can indeed be realized within no time and that capacity is now also free. The number of corona patients now is 644. At the moment there are over 300 places available on the ic. I have indicated what actions we are taking with regard to the further construction towards the 2,000, but I cannot say that they are there. And I can't say they'll be there in a week. I'm just saying things I can do. I will say that we are doing everything we can to ensure that they are there within a week, in no time, within the fastest possible period. If we can do it in a day, we'll do it in a day. I'm not gonna say things that I'm not sure I can live up to. We now have thousands of devices in order. They are produced abroad. I'm not happy until they're somewhere in the AMC or the UMC in an ic room. Only then will we be done. Every day at the end of the afternoon, at the beginning of the evening, we are informed by the national coordination centre: how many places are currently occupied, how much open capacity is there and how much has been created today? We'll be informed about that every day. Mr Van Rijn has really been working on it 24 hours a day since his swearing-in and actually before that. So we're doing everything we can to make sure we realize that capacity. We can't go any harder than this. If it doesn't work at all, then two on one ventilator is also a possibility. There are examples from abroad. That's the beauty of the statement the NVIC made yesterday. You'd rather not, but that's also a possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u205	I will not ask a follow-up question now, but I do not think the answer is as clear as I would like it to be. The intentions and the actions are now clear. The cabinet has indicated that it could be done within a day or a few days. I would like to hear in writing this debate that the necessary peak capacity is now in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u206	I assume the Minister will return to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u207	I would like to put a question as a follow-up to Mr Segers' question. Yesterday, in his emergency call, Mr Gommers explicitly referred to the lack of urgency or willingness of hospitals in the north to cooperate. The Minister replied to it in his reply. He indicated that this realization would be there by now. Suppose, in the coming days, it appears that a hospital does not want to cooperate sufficiently or takes too long to create problems, how is the military direction given to make this possible or to enforce it immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u208	The direction to enforce this is at the national coordination center. We have agreed with the Defense Department that any possibility to enforce coordination through military deployment will be exploited. The ROAZs, the regional consultation acute care, are currently supported with three soldiers per ROAZ. They started this week to be the regional counterpart of the national coordination centre. This is also how military efforts are being scaled up at the moment. There's no limit to that. When it comes to the will of other hospitals, I'm a little more nuanced. Last weekend, Brabant needed very hard beds. Then it was the UMCG, in Groningen, that said: come on, we have beds. Most Brabant patients went there. At this time, you have to be careful to talk to others that they want to have a lack of commitment. That's why I'm nuanced. But I also agree that a maximum urgency is needed to get where we need to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u209	I understand the Minister wants to be nuanced. At the same time, during the technical briefing, Mr Gommers actually made two distress calls. The first was about the peak capacity referred to by previous questioners. He really indicated that he saw that some hospitals weren't urgent enough. The minister says he'll see this now. My question is about the situation that the next one turns out that a hospital does not want to cooperate sufficiently. What's that? How can you force that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u210	By the appointment of the Inspector General. The Inspector-General may provide extraordinary guidance. In the light of health legislation, the inspector general has a rather extensive, almost endless toolbox. A great deal has been added to this in the summation of all the debates in recent years. He has all kinds of tools to ensure that reality becomes what we want it to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u211	I shall continue with the questions put by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Asscher. I think they are the crux of this debate. How do we ensure that we have enough ic-beds in the Netherlands to absorb the peak in the coming weeks? How do we ensure that people working outside hospitals have sufficient protective equipment to provide care in nursing homes, nursing homes and through home care? In the debates with the former coordinating minister in the field of corona and also the debate with this minister, I hear too often that it is getting exciting. It is good to be honest about that, by the way. I also hear that everything is done to prevent it from getting really exciting. I believe that the Ministry of Health and all the other parties will do everything in their power to regulate the ic capacity and also to keep the care out of hospitals. But the answers are always lacking in concrete dates on which it must be regulated. This makes it very difficult for us as a Chamber to assess whether we have enough of the restrictive measures in society to slow down the spread of the virus. If these data are too close in the future and we cannot guarantee that this capacity is regulated in healthcare, we may need to take other measures to reduce the spread of the virus. I would like to ask the Minister once more to make an attempt to provide us with concrete dates on which capacity is in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u212	That's what I'm gonna do. There is a very logical explanation for why it is so difficult to give those data. Those data aren't a matter of pressing the button. We are, by the way, realizing that it is a push of a button, because that is what it has to be. This can also be done if all hospitals in the Netherlands use exactly the same system. That's just an example. You usually have to meet for that for three years, but now we're gonna ram it through in a couple of days. We do that from the national coordination center. Until then, an inventory round along the various administration systems is indeed needed to find out how many beds have been cleared and how many beds have been occupied by corona patients. That's what you're gonna add up to. For example, these figures came from the NVIC last week. In short, you ask extremely logical questions. Those are exactly the questions we have, of course. Only the answers are not so easy to give, at least not to give automated. That makes me answer as I answer and Bruno Bruins answered for me as he replied. The answer to the question of whether we are currently scaling up to the maximum is yes. What is there to realize towards those 1,100 beds around April 1st, the worst case scenario of the RIVM? This concerns the growth of the total number of ic-beds to 1,500. That's why everything was set in motion. On average, 575 would be available for car accidents and heart attacks, the regular emergency care. That leaves 925 beds for corona patients on the ic. That's gonna be pushed up with the DOD devices and the devices from the independent clinics. In an emergency, we switch to two-to-one. That's what you're up against. I understand very well that you are asking for the real-time numbers. Every evening we get the real-time numbers, at least as real-time as possible, from the national coordination centre. Tonight the new numbers are being given about the increase in the number of patients on the ic and the number of places that are now available and created.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u213	I think it's a shocking answer. The simple question of several colleagues is: are there 1,600 ic-beds next week with ventilators? In normal Dutch: are there next Monday, there will be Wednesday next week, are there enough beds next Friday on the ic's with ventilation equipment? On that simple question, the Minister cannot say that these beds are there without them or without them. This means that next week we will run the risk of getting a code black in the Netherlands, that doctors will have to choose which people will or will not be helped. Those are people who would normally be helped. This means that the Minister did not start to put the ic capacity in order in time, in terms of ventilation equipment. I'll give you another chance, Mr. Secretary. It really needs to be clear now. All colleagues have asked for it three times. Can you guarantee that next Monday, next Wednesday and next Friday there will be sufficient capacity for both the corona patients and the other patients on the ic in terms of ic-beds and ventilation equipment, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u214	I shall begin with the false assumption that there would be such a situation next week. I think that we should really be careful about this, I say in the direction of Mr Wilders. It's really unnecessary to paint this ghost image. It is wrong that next week there would be a choice of who is and who is not on the ice. In all the answers I have just given, I have given the numbers as they are now known. I think it is my job to do that honestly, to do that correctly, to do that as precisely as possible. Of course, a simple yes or no is the easiest thing to do, but I have to do justice to reality. That reality is complex. That reality is that there is a virus raging around the world and that everyone is looking, that all countries are looking for the same ventilation equipment as the Netherlands is looking for. This means that all orders are now ordered by thousands of devices, which are insecure until the moment they are on the ic where you want them. That means that I have to be honest about what has been arranged and be honest about what can be said next week. Then there is no situation of choosing "who may or may not be on the ic" because in the end there is always the possibility to work with two on one device. In any case, there is the number of 925 beds. There goes the plus on top of the defense devices and the plus on top of the independent clinics, and then you're there. But we're not done with that, because there will be another week after next week. For that week, too, we want to stand up. In short, we are doing everything we can to achieve a scenario of bleak weather. We hope it won't come, but we'll prepare for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u215	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u216	A very long answer, but the conclusion remains that this Minister of Health cannot say yes to my question, a very simple question: will there be Monday next week, will there be Wednesday next week and will there be enough ice beds and ventilation equipment ready next Friday? He needs a lot of gibberish and says with all of them ifs and buts: yes, but that code black doesn't apply, because people can still be on a ventilator together. All far from ideal, it could go terribly wrong. You should see that leaflet from the Dutch Association for Intensive Care. It has a number of advantages, of course, but there is such a list of disadvantages in the leaflet they distributed yesterday. My point is that we have a minister here, we have a government here that started scaling up too late and recognised it too late. This Minister is afraid to say that next week, Monday, Wednesday and Friday, the appliances will be there for the people who need an ICU with breathing equipment. Then the Netherlands will know what to expect. I am deliberately, truly and sincerely blaming you because you should have started this earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u217	I would like to leave Mr Wilders' evaluative remarks for what they are. I am committed to sticking to the facts and to being honest in the direction of your Chamber. I also believe that you, too, are honest about the implications that this could have. Yeah, it's not ideal. Two on one device is not ideal. So we'll do everything we can to provide enough equipment. We'll do everything we can. Van Rijn is working on it day and night. I'm working on it myself day and night. We're doing everything we can, but we can't promise what we don't really know for sure. What I know for sure is that we're doing everything we can. I'm sure of it. Whatever I'm sure of... Imagine if the worst scenario actually happens and the number of ICU patients increases faster than our ability to create more ICU beds, then there is the possibility of two on one device. That's not ideal. No one's saying that either. But it is an example also tested abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u218	I suggest that you move on, because you still have a few topics to discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u219	Then we'll go to the tests. Let me briefly say that I agree with everyone who has said that we need to test much more. This also includes the honest story that we do not have enough test capacity at the moment, but we need more. That is why there is also a need for national coordination. That is why I commissioned the NVMM's Task Force Diagnostics to make a sharp analysis of the question "what are we really lacking in, in what period do we really have a shortage of this and in what way can we provide for that shortage" to achieve sufficient capacity by exploring both the procurement and production possibilities. That means we're trying to get everything we can to get at the national purchasing center. In addition, we have appointed a special envoy to help us deal with the corona crisis on many points, but at least on this point, namely to build up own production in the Netherlands as quickly as possible. I am very pleased that Feike Sijbesma has declared himself available to commit to this. It's a very big name in this world. He's really going to help us, I'm sure at the speed with which we can build this production facility in the Netherlands, because we need more testing capacity. The task force should also help us to distribute available capacity between the labs and to comply with national RIVM testing guidelines. The central purchasing takes place by the Landelijk Consortium Auxiliaries. We must therefore make every effort to achieve this test capacity in the Netherlands as soon as possible. Much has been said about Roche and about any measures such as claiming or making compulsory licences that could help in doing so. The first thing you could say about this business is that it is far too dependent on one company. Almost all test capacity in the Netherlands depends on Roche, but actually it plays worldwide. Roche's had production problems. Roche has increased his production considerably, but it is not enough. In the meantime Roche indicates that it can be delivered again because the production is running again, but it is not enough and it is too vulnerable. So we need to reduce our dependence on one manufacturer. That would be a great help. Making us build our own test capacity in the Netherlands would be a great help. These are extraordinary times. Especially at this time, I think that patents and everything that has to do with them cannot be the last word in this discussion. But to go straight to the instrument of a compulsory licence? Last week, I understood, there was also a law on claims in the debate. We saw that the suggestion that there would be a claim law immediately meant that all kinds of orders around mouth caps etc. were canceled and that parties withdrew, because the possibility is that if your party is on Dutch soil, the Dutch government says: come here. I am in no way reluctant to use an instrument that works, but I am reluctant to use an instrument that could have a negative effect. We're gonna build up our own test capacity, as much as we can. In addition, we need Roche's recipe. There's contact with Roche. How are we going to achieve that? I would ask you to leave the room to the cabinet in what variant. In any case, I read and hear in your contributions the encouragement not to shy away from it. I very much agree with that encouragement. If that required legislation, if it required the use of a compulsory licence, an instrument of EZK, I would not necessarily oppose it. But I think the fastest way is just the phone. We are now trying to go that fastest way. If that doesn't work, we'll switch to a different set of instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u220	Did you answer all the questions that have been asked about the testing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u221	No, I don't think so. Do you want me to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u222	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u223	The PVV and the SP have asked why we're not going to test everyone. Eventually, I'll bet on more tests. At present, the test capacity is insufficient. We need more testing capacity. This applies both to the molecular tests that are now being carried out, but this will certainly apply to the serological tests, the blood tests, to see if antibodies have been built up. They will ultimately help to apply the measures we have now proposed as precisely as possible. In my view, that was Mr Baudet's speech. You need these serological tests to minimise the damage that we take, because you can demonstrate as quickly as possible through those serological tests: I've had it, but I've built up antibodies and I can get back to work. You don't have to be in a family quarantine, for example. In short, we need those tests. In addition, there are all kinds of variants of quick tests on the market. There are large quantities available in a lot of variants, from very unreliable to quite reliable. How reliable is that then, how applicable and in what situations? We're having RIVM investigate that right now. I hope to have an outcome next week or perhaps a week later. Once there is an outcome that reassures us about the applicability of those rapid tests, we will obtain them in large assignments. Because we need them. What exactly is the shortage, asked Mr Veldman. So we have to be very economical with reagents, with extraction fluids. We have to be very careful with the plastics. We need to be very resource efficient with materials, such as the swabs. In fact, we have too little of all parts of the production process. Especially a number of liquids, that is Roche's, and reagents are the most inadequate at the moment. Is it an option to recover tests? I've actually responded to that a little bit. If it's necessary, we have to do it. But if you can do it on the phone, it's gonna go faster. That, I think, has given me the most important questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u224	I have here a list of Members of Parliament: Mr Klaver, Mr Baudet, Mr Asscher, Mr Heerma and Mr Veldman. Then I'll go to Mr. Clover. It was just there first. Then I looked him a little away. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u225	The world is in great crisis. There's one company that has the prescription to run tests. They just don't have enough capacity. They're gonna sit on that prescription. They don't share it, while our own pharmacies and laboratories could run tests with that prescription themselves. The Minister says we'll try with a phone call. So, what's the status of the conversation with Roche? Can we assume that the recipe will be with our pharmacists tonight, so they can make it themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u226	This is a bit of a similar conversation we just had. There are conversations with Roche. It doesn't help to share the content of those conversations with you here, but know that we're doing everything we can to get that recipe. We need that recipe to produce that stuff and then increase that test capacity, and we need the test capacity to make the fight against the virus more effective. In short, we are doing everything we can to do exactly what you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u227	Mr. Chairman. I raise my voice. That's not against this minister. That's against this company! The fact that we need to ask at all to release these kinds of resources, such a recipe, in order to keep societies safe worldwide, is truly a disgrace. If your profits are more important than public health, that's unacceptable. I also really think that that company is going to say something as soon as possible, today! That recipe must be shared with us, with all the countries of the world. If they do not, I believe that this compulsory licence should indeed be granted. In 2005, this was extensively examined by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. That was about MSD Organon. It has shown that this is very feasible. I would very much like to get the Minister, today, on paper what that route looks like and how we can use this instrument, because it really cannot be that this company refuses to give up its recipe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u228	I think I have two things to do. The first thing I have to do is go through the route we're going through right now, and that's to make sure we get the recipe of the stuff, because we need it. The second thing I have to do is to examine the instrument that exists for this purpose for applicability in this situation. I have to do both of those things, but I think we should hope and count on it to succeed in that first way. That's why I'm not in on the qualifications for this company for a while. This is a company that we just need this time and the next few days. Let's just wait and see the results of the conversation before we link qualifications to that in the direction of this company. But I think that Mr Klaver's and mine objectives are the same: we need to get these things, because we need to increase our testing capacity in the fight against this virus. We're just doing that in a normal way right now, with a phone. If you can't do it with a phone, I'm very willing to use whatever it takes. That is also what we need to investigate. We must also examine these instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u229	Last question, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u230	I would very much like to be informed by the Minister tomorrow by letter about what is actually going on, because we do not have time to wait. But the Minister's response shows something else, namely how rotten and depraved is actually the whole system of the pharmaceutical industry. When a health minister has to say at the height of the crisis here in the Lower House "I have to watch out for my words when I talk about such a company, because we still need them very much" and we are dependent on a private party, that worries me greatly. It reminds me again that once this crisis is over, we have to solve this big problem with these pharmaceutical companies with these patents.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u231	I should like to explain this a little more in detail. Look, we should not have a very ideological debate here about the space that the market has been given in healthcare. I really like that debate, but it just takes too much time for today. Indeed, we will have to feed that again later. If you look at the dependence of testing capacity on one company in the Netherlands at all, there is much to be said about that, but that is not just this one company to blame, of course. Those choices have been made in the past. If we say that we never want to have anything to do with a company in the pharmaceutical world at all, you don't say that, then we've ended up completely on the other end of the spectrum. In this case, there is a company where almost all test capacity in the Netherlands uses the equipment produced there. We're talking to that company. Then I find jumping to the conclusion and connecting all kinds of qualifications to that company simply not appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u232	Okay, that changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u233	That's why we're doing it with a phone. If it's not possible with a phone, we'll do it in all the other ways it could possibly work. Of course we're looking at it. Of course we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u234	You have said this a few times. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u235	The figures on the amount of tests available are not clear to us. Also not the number of tests carried out between 27 February and 6 to 9 March. Those are the first two weeks, which are incredibly decisive. People who now die from corona got infected. We don't know how many tests were done back then. We don't know how many applications have been made. We also don't know how many tests are available now. The RIVM has said that it only wants to make that information available if the Chamber so requests. I would therefore like to put this question to you. I hope I speak on behalf of others here in the Chamber. Can you instruct RIVM to make all the information available on how many tests have been done since 27 February, so from when this started to play, and also how many tests are available at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u236	That is a specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u237	That's a very specific question, but I'm really going to check this out, because RIVM will have had a reason why it didn't just mention the number, apparently. I think it's gonna take a lot of digging. But there's something else that makes me hesitate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u238	But will you come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u239	Yes, I would, but there is something else that makes me hesitate to answer this question. In the beginning there has been contact research as the GGD always does. There has been an individual case test, in which you do test and contact research and then take the quarantine measure if it turns out that the test is positive. So that's a completely different way of testing. Because the circulation of the virus in Brabant is now as it is, that way of testing is simply not sustainable anymore. Of course, we've also had a whole different test practice. So the question is whether the answer to the question as you put it could lead to any conclusion at all. This simply has to do with what choices you make in the test policy. The fact that we are now making the choice in the test policy as it is now simply has everything to do with the scarcity that there is, point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u240	That's clear. I understand that, too. I also understand your attitude towards Roche. I agree with Mr Klaver that we would like to report in the very short term on what that discussion is about. I would also like to explain why this discussion has not taken place before. We could have done that last week. It is not new information that that company has a semi-monopoly on these tests. But it's just the past that matters to me. Why can't we get that information? So I'm gonna get a reaction to that. Two. You say there are several ways of testing. The classic test is being abandoned. That's all at your service. But it's always said there's a shortage of tests. Why can't we get an absolute number? Why can't we hear how many tests there are, how many tests are being produced, what is the build-up capacity now, that sort of thing? That's very relevant to us, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u241	I'd like to explain that, but I'll do it in next week's letter, otherwise I'll have to call all those people in the ministry back from the front to make letters like this. We make one letter a week, prior to the debate. So I'm doing this. I am trying to give this explanation in next week's letter, prior to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u242	One more time, finally. For the sake of clarity, the RIVM, Van Dissel, has indicated that this information is in principle there, but that it is only at the request of the Chamber. So do you agree with our request?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u243	Well, I said I'd call the RIVM about what the background to that answer was, and I'm just gonna do it. You'll get the answer in the letter we're about to send next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u244	Fine. I had Mr Asscher on my list.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u245	In his reply, the Minister gives the impression that using the telephone is a whole new thing, while we have been working on that test capacity for a while. So I'm assuming he's spoken to the suppliers of scarce resources for our test capacity before. So I also assume that this is going to produce results. So I want to have a Chamber ruling in which the Minister is instructed to use all the means, if necessary a compulsory licence, so that he can obtain clarity from the company today, there can be tested and we can extend the policy as currently used in the north of the Netherlands to the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u246	There are a few things that are going to get mixed up. The use in the north of the country requires some nuance. As a result of the news in De Groene Amsterdammer, I have just called the UMCG. What is being done there is hardly anything different from the test policy as it exists nationally. What is different there is the situation of using a different type of material than that of this one manufacturer alone. As a result, there are other stock options than if Roche were the only one to be used. But it's not like there's a whole different test practice going on in the north of the country right now. By the way, I have to say something about that. Where the UMCG nuanced the statements of one of its medical specialists, I myself have to nuance the statement I made about this. I have said myself that it is not possible for you to solo in this way. I paraphrase myself, and it's always tricky in this house. I have said that every man for himself is not going to work in this approach. That is not really what is going on when I look at the test policy of the UMCG. So let me straighten that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u247	It's fine that the Minister takes this back. It's also good to know he's already used his phone, at least to call UMCG. What matters to me is that we can test and protect the general practitioners, and that we can increase the safety of the people who do this work, as they do now in the north of the country. I'd like to leave the test policy to the experts. What I find is that there is a lack of capacity, that one of the keys is in the hands of the Roche company, that you have been in contact with before and that we therefore want to know today, if necessary using a compulsory licence. I have not given the company any qualification, but I have given it the situation we find ourselves in. I'd like to get a confirmation on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u248	Yeah, but first about the general practitioners. There is now a directive testing, taking into account a lack of stock. This directive is translated into the various sectors and therefore applies to general practitioners. There is simply a directive on testing, even now, for general practitioners. But if there were fewer limits to the possibilities for the test, you could test more. That's exactly what you'd like. Eventually you would want even more, also for vital professions other than care. Of course, care comes first, but other vital professions should also make use of it. In short, I think we are on the same page. I don't know if today is going to be able to shed any light on that. If it helps, then I won't fail to do it this way either, but I'm not pinning myself on today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u249	Perhaps you could answer that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u250	I'm pinning myself on the most effective outcome of that. That is what we want. You can pin me to that and you can hold me to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u251	The Minister states that the Cabinet also believes that there should be more testing capacity soon. The task force has been set up for this purpose or entrusted with that task and the envoy has been asked to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u252	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u253	The Minister also states that he wants to do it in that order. Does the Minister agree that this should lead to results quickly, in the short term? Is the Minister prepared to consider in that process what legal measures, including possibly a compulsory licence, can be used to put pressure on these companies so that it leads to results?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u254	Yeah, absolutely. I'd rather do it in that order. Yeah, so we have that task force. Now that task force at Roche isn't gonna get the recipe off, I think, but that envoy can do it. That is also the question: take care of your own production facility in the Netherlands. First of all, you need the recipe for your own production facility. I do think it's a good idea to do that. When I hear your Chamber like this, I think I should follow that route and in the meantime prepare the legal instruments for the moment when it does not go itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u255	Can the Minister indicate how much time he thinks can be taken for that first track? This must lead to results quickly. That is what I am putting my second question to. The Minister indicated that he expects the rapid tests to be tested for reliability within a week. Does the Minister want to say that he is going to make a commitment to this and that we will see it in next week's letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u256	That's two questions. To the last question, the answer is yes. I'm gonna try to get that in that letter next week if I can. I'm gonna do everything I can for that. That means I'm going to ask RIVM to pay attention to that as a matter of urgency. I would like to come back to that first question in second place, because I have to check how much time I need to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u257	It is nice to hear that the Minister keeps his head cool and stays sober by saying that sometimes a phone call can work very well. I think we all share the concern that there should be sufficient material available in time so that we can also test it. I also understand the call from this Chamber to look at far-reaching legal measures, including compulsory licences. Well, of course, it's always the case that when you get to work and you have the instrument box with you, you have to get the right instrument. Sometimes an instrument can lead to an opposite effect, so you're actually further away from home. I would like to have the Minister's promise that once he addresses the legal instrument box, he will guarantee that he will use the instrument that will ultimately help us forward and not take the instruments out of emotion, which may put us at a disadvantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u258	I very much share what Mr Veldman is saying here. We just have to do what works. If a phone call works better than a law book, then we need to get a phone call; really.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u259	It's good to hear that more tests are being carried out. It is understandable, of course, that you will not test intensively if there are too few tests. But I had asked a question about the situation in which there are enough tests, so if there are millions of tests. Is it possible that we will then proceed with the addition of a weapon to the arsenal, namely the weapon that was used so successfully in Taiwan and Hong Kong, which is intensive testing and then isolating infected people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u260	Actually, that looks like the situation we had. The standard policy of the GGD I almost wanted to say VNG is always first testing, then doing contact research and then quarantine or medication or whatever. That's what we do with all kinds of infectious disease control. I remember that from the time I was alderman. I always got those memos on my desk showing what disease had been detected somewhere and how the contact investigation had been done. You know, in a big city, you get to see something. Why didn't you do it now? Because the amount in Brabant became so large and the circulation in Brabant was so widespread that contact research really didn't make any sense anymore. You could no longer ask who they had all spoken and whether they had been in Italy. No, they were just carnivals, so to speak. There was no further contact investigation. That just wasn't good to do anymore. That's why we've switched to another form of testing. And yes, that also has to do with the lack of availability of capacity. A Singaporean approach cannot be achieved with the current spread of the virus and with the current lack of availability of test material. We just have an amended RIVM directive because stocks are limited. If we take care of that, we'll keep it for a while. That has led me to the conclusion that we need to have our own test capacity and that we need to make our own stuff. We shouldn't depend on one company. That's one. Two is that, until then, we must do something'sustainable', stick to the RIVM directive and ensure that it is translated as closely as possible into the various professions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u261	That, of course, gives hope. You're obviously on top of it. But the old protocol, of course, still does not go as far as the protocols they used in Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore. Are you prepared to set up the Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore protocols if there is sufficient test material and test capacity?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u262	That's very fast for me, but I know what you mean. You want us to test more, so you can target your measures much more precisely on those who are actually infected. At least that would be my idea. That way you can focus your quarantine-like measures on it, so that they are as little disastrous as possible for the economy, social life and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u263	And now an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u264	So I share that background, but before I announce a Singaporean model here, I want to do it in the order that we do everything we can first to work on more testing capacity in the Netherlands through our own production and then see how we can distribute it as fairly as possible. That is part of the task force's mission set up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u265	That is of course very nice and I am pleased with the answer. What needs to be added is, of course, that you can also test to establish that someone does not have it. That is also very important. Now there are families where one person has a snot nose and fever and everyone has to stay home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u266	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u267	But if it's established that no one has it, then there's no problem. That's good news, too. You could do that with the Taiwanese model.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u268	Or that someone has already had it; that is also good news. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u269	I realize very well that we have to operate in a time of great uncertainty. We saw graphs yesterday that look like this. There are several variables that we don't know how it's gonna work out. Some of those lines are really dramatic over the ic-capacity. I wonder what assumptions are being made now. I understand that the Cabinet is making every effort to test and protect materials, but what assumptions does the Cabinet make when we look at these lines? Does the Cabinet assume that the tests and the protective materials will be taken care of this week? What does that mean for the chance that we're going to exceed ic capacity?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u270	That's two questions. The test capacity is based not on a maximum scenario but on maximum speed to achieve it in the Netherlands. I think that is important, given the observations made by all of you, that we have become too dependent on a company and that we as that company are unable to deliver, despite a greatly increased production, too dependent. That's one. Two: I think it's a good thing that you mention that ic-capacity and take care of the states of Professor Van Dissel yesterday. In the meantime, I contacted Martin van Rijn, who spoke with Gommers. He confirms that as of 1 April can be switched to 1,600 and the IGJ, the inspection will monitor this. That's 1,037 for corona and 575 regular rush. That has just been confirmed through Gommers. Mr Asscher asked to confirm this, and this has been confirmed. We do not take into account in the states of RIVM what Van Dissel said yesterday, that the R is beginning to go towards 1 or perhaps even through 1. That's not what we're considering. When planning ic capacity, we also do not take into account the statement that it is likely to move towards that green line. That's not what we're considering. In the planning we take into account the red line, which will go quite steep in the coming weeks, in that sheet of the RIVM, so be prepared for the sausage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u271	First Mrs Ouwehand and then I will go to Mr Segers and you will have the floor, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u272	One more question. I imagine myself like this and when things are different, I do hear it from the Minister of Health that in those scenarios you assume that at some point those tests and those protective materials are there, so that people who are going to work in care cannot infect their clients and vice versa. Actually, I'd like to know what we're assuming. I understand you're not sure you're gonna make it, but what's the cabinet going to do? Based on that, I think you'll get a closer look at if there's another emergency scenario needed. Then you will see on time whether other or additional measures are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u273	We're gonna take the scenario as a maximum check. In addition, we have two major anchor points. One anchor point is the capacity of the care, of ic- or non-ic-beds. That's an important anchor point. On the other hand, an important anchor point is the protection of vulnerable people. We have these two goals in our approach. That's what we're assuming. If you look at the steepness of the line in the darkest scenario, I've just indicated, when it comes to the ic-capacity,...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u274	That has just been extensively changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u275	...that we do everything possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u276	Then Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u277	Finally. I almost forgot to mention that it is a fine message that has been confirmed that 1,600 ic-beds will be available next week. Thank you to all those who have taken care of that. But it's still not an answer to my question. In those scenarios, I assume you're making an assumption about the maximum test capacity we currently have and about the protective materials that have been regulated. Such an assumption should be underneath. If there is, I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u278	I'll be on protective equipment in a minute and whatever works there. I have just gone into the test capacity in detail. This is another question, which is about scenario planning. What we do in scenario planning is take into account heavy weather, the heaviest weather that RIVM puts in its models. We take this heavy weather into account. That's what we're planning. This was the subject of national coordination. That's what emergency hospitals are about. That's what the thousands of ventilators we're ordering are about for the ic. There's not an even more bleak scenario you could prepare for, because that would mean that I still had some ideas to get more ic-beds. The answer is that there are no such ideas. Otherwise, I would have had them and put them into effect by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u279	All right, I'll go see Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u280	In short, we're doing everything we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u281	Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u282	This is my last interruption, so I hope for a very clear commitment. It's about testing. We all have the echo of the World Health Organization in our head: testing, testing, testing. Why? You're good at targeting your policy. You know exactly how big the pandemic is, where the fireplaces are and how to quarantine people. A large number of self-tests have now been purchased in the United Kingdom. The minister just said he's having RIVM tested to see if it meets the standards, whether it's high quality enough. There's a serological test that shows if you've had it or not, if you've built immunity. I would find it really a waste of energy, time and human power if all these tests were to be tested for quality in each European country. If we need Europe for something, then it is with countries that have the same standards to take the job out of our hands. If the United Kingdom looks at whether that test is good enough, if Germany does it on another test and France on another test, then we can benefit from that knowledge. Could I have the undertaking that we will contact the United Kingdom and, as soon as information is on the table, bring it here immediately and make that test available to the Dutch population?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u283	Sure. I also do not rule out the fact that RIVM already has contact with that, because that has a lot of contact with England. Let's definitely hang out together if we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u284	However, I would like to return to Roche's performance on the provision of equipment. I think I remember that when we had problems with Air France-KLM, the Minister of Finance took out EUR 700 or 750 million to buy a seat at the board table. That went pretty fast. Now it's about public health, and now the Minister says he wants to make a phone call. I'd like to know from the Minister when he first made that call. Are there other possibilities, for example through our pension funds, which may have shares in this company and which can also find something to put pressure on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u285	Of course, there have been several calls, because that also runs through the laboratories that use them. That task force was set up by Bruins a week ago. We've given the further instructions as of this morning, when I signed that letter. There have been several contacts, but I don't know exactly when they were made. Roche produces all over the world and has a production problem all over the world, so the Netherlands won't be the only country on the phone. Are there any other ways of influencing it? Yes, I did not ask a special envoy for nothing to build up Dutch production facility as soon as possible. Mr Sijbesma is a life-size name in this world. Of course, that should help to do what it takes to ensure that we have a good entrance to a company that has such a big position in the world. We are doing everything we can to ensure that we can build production facilities as soon as possible. That's what I can say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u286	Then I would like to call on you to deal with the following subjects more quickly. There's been a lot of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u287	Yes, I understand, Mr. Chairman. With regard to personal protective equipment, 50PLUS asks whether there is sufficient attention for the care of the neighbourhood and for home care in its distribution. Yes, given the scarcity, it's agreed how the distribution should run. What type of care treatment do you need which type of protective equipment? No exception has been made to different sectors. The distribution criteria apply to all areas of care. What I do hear, and you will hear of course, is that the distribution via the ROAZ's for an organisation for elderly care or vvt is not at all a common entrance to choose. So that takes a while before that gets going, I can see that and I'm working on that. We have clarified where you need to be and who you need to call, and we have also given clarity to the ROAZ coordinators by saying: if you have a vvt setting banging on your door, open up and hand over that stuff. We have also said to the vvt sector, the elderly care sector: if you do not get through, give us a signal so that we can call the ROAZ that it is really the intention. In short, we've prepared everything to get there. I sometimes hear a single signal that it is not working properly. And we have to be honest: the power's coming on, but we're not there yet. But that power's gonna get started. I think it's good to say that. A nationwide consortium of resources has been set up, which is constantly working with 60, 70 buyers of the joint hospitals, all together on one exhibition floor, with of course one and a half meters away, to fish in all those orders. I don't know about you, but I think you've also received hundreds of apps and e-mails from people with a good idea. The sad thing about that is that most of those ideas don't seem to be a good idea, but we can't afford to miss a good idea, so everything is being checked out. Those are now thousands of leads that have been checked out by that purchasing center. There really is working day and night. This has led to a fairly steady flow of incoming equipment, with 4.2 million FFP2 masks so far, 2.2 million surgical masks, all kinds of other means, such as glasses and gloves, 130,000 liters of disinfectants. In addition, we have received a lot of gifts from large companies. That's what happens. I think we are on the road with that, have taken a number of steps forward, but I am not going to promise that this will put the deficit behind us. Because that's not the case. So we'll do everything we can to get everything we can. The complexity of these FFP2 masks is that the only truly large-scale production is currently taking place in China. So the whole world is focused on China in this respect. And yes, we've been able to set up some very nice air bridges. Part of the orders that have now been delivered, like the very first really big order last Saturday, is the first batch of a million-dollar order, which is going to get us up to 20 million dollars towards May. That's how big those orders are by now. But it's very hard work to get everything in, and then work really hard to distribute everything neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u288	And now for the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u289	This was an answer to Mr Krol's question. The second was addressed to Mr Asscher. Maybe I should've mentioned that. Moreover, Mr Van der Staaij had asked the same question, in other words. Mr Jetten had also asked the same question, so this is the case. Mr Klaver says: is the self-production of protective equipment an option? The answer is: yes, that is an option, only never in the numbers that China is getting now. It's gonna be a long time before you get there. Looking at the numbers that are now needed in an average hospital, that's a hell of a lot. But we also work there with a consortium. For example, there's a company that gets its production capacity from China to the Netherlands, with machine and all. It's beautiful, of course. That type of example we are seeing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u290	The Minister says it's starting to get going now. At the same time, all of us in care for the elderly and at home, but also very specifically in disability care, are getting signals that it has not yet started. Is the Minister prepared to address in detail next week's letter the question of whether it has actually started in the field of care for the elderly, home care and disability?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u291	Yeah, sure. There's another discussion underneath that too. Given the cut-off made by the RIVM a fairly strict directive. Not everyone is enthusiastic about this fairly strict directive on which type of care operation requires any type of protective equipment. That discussion is still underneath it. But I will give you more precise insight into next week's letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u292	Good. The next topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u293	This concerns the protection of vulnerable groups. That's just where I'm going with the questions. What guidelines are there for an infection in a nursing home? That was a question from Mr Krol. The association of specialists in the care of the elderly, Verenso, has drawn up a directive for this purpose. A patient is being nursed in isolation. If there are two positively tested patients in a nursing home, from that moment on, cohort care takes place in a separated corridor within the nursing home where patients are nursed if necessary. Anyway, all hygiene measures are applied there. Do the nursing homes have enough space and capacity for human contact? Of course, on the advice of Verenso, we have had to take the very difficult measure of stopping visitors. No one wants to take that measure, but we did see that it was really necessary, given a number of outbreaks in particular in Brabant and Limburg. Visiting is not going to happen. That is simply not possible, except in the palliative phase, because we must of course make an exception; it cannot be that you cannot say goodbye to each other. It's very heavy and difficult. That is one of the measures. This means that care cannot be provided now, unless there is a care volunteer who is needed to keep care in a nursing home going at all. The same rules apply to care workers. If volunteers are needed for basic care, that's possible. But we can't have visitors. Nevertheless, I always say: limit the visit, but keep in touch. For that you see a lot of beautiful possibilities with image bubbles and so on. Luckily, I can do that. Mr Van der Staaij asks: how can we help lonely vulnerable people? There's an incredible amount of action going on. We are trying to link all kinds of initiatives where we can, because there are a lot of initiatives and platforms that are trying to bring supply and demand together. There is a very large church initiative, not only, which Mr Segers referred to. There is also another initiative, NLvooreach other, a very nice platform. We try to help them with everything they do, because it is incredibly important that you try to combine all that social initiative to help vulnerable lonely people right now. Mr Krol asked what we are all doing for extra measures for carers. It's about clear communication. MantelzorgNL has extended the opening hours of the Mantelzorgingline. Municipalities are working to broaden the availability of grace care. I think this is very important. We are working very hard on the ic-capacity and non-ic-bed capacity in hospitals or emergency hospitals, but in addition we will also have to provide enough care hotels with each other, so enough space for the people who live at home but who can't do that now because they get sick for example and cannot take care of themselves. So we're working on that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u294	I guess that answers all the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u295	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u296	Okay! Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u297	A quick question. The Minister lists the fine initiatives. Indeed, #not only is a very nice network and there are other platforms. Could the Minister, for all these organisations, also help to strengthen communication to the citizens? 'Cause of course, that's all very well to look for. We still have a lot of people who don't know exactly what possibilities there are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u298	I'm going to tell you in the letter next week what we're all doing on that point. That's a hell of a lot. It's all written out for me, but if I'm gonna mention all that, I think the chairman is gonna get rough with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u299	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u300	So I'm gonna put it in next week's letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u301	And you're heading for a roundup now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u302	Yes. I have a few more education questions and some other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u303	But I see Mrs. Marijnissen. Your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u304	I have a question about stopping home care in many places. The SP gets a lot of messages from all kinds of places in the country that this happens. Given what the Minister himself said, namely that there is the sad situation that many elderly people are sitting alone at the moment, that the family cannot visit and that care is difficult, is it not unacceptable that home care should go away? We have received e-mails and phone calls from people who haven't showered for a long time because home care is just not coming anymore. How's the Minister gonna fix this? Especially in this situation, where a great deal has already been lost for our elderly people, it seems to me that the necessary home care needs to be maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u305	I very much agree with Mrs Marijnissen, precisely because you want to keep your finger on the wrist at home. I'm getting those signals, too. I understand the background to that is just disease. The disease rates are high, either because people are anxious to work or because people are actually sick. With flu-like symptoms that look like corona symptoms, it is better not to go to work, especially if there is a real fever. That's also the instruction to care. In short, I also see the high absenteeism rate. I'm working with congregations on this. I thought I wrote that in last night's letter, too. A plan for vulnerable people at home. For the elderly, but I want similar groups to be dealt with in the same way, first of all we organize that at home the finger is kept on the wrist. In addition, these care hotels are also available, if there is a recording on a temporary bed. That must be properly matched in the triage and in the matching. So that's what we need to organize. So I really want to see these three things in an approach for vulnerable people at home. I'm working on that right now. As soon as I can tell you more about that, I'll let you know. I hope we can do that next week. I very much agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u306	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u307	Then there are the questions of education, Mr President, also on behalf of Mr Slob. How do we help schools and families who do not have good facilities at home to do home education, distance learning, in a good way? That's a question from D66. Well, the school has taken on its own of course the first responsibility to look for that type of initiative. They also design that education from home. I have two teenagers. At the moment they both have a very different variant of home education. They are getting a bit tired of it. We have the Youth Education Fund. That provides 900 laptops and tablets this week. Then we have the Leergeld Foundation, which provides devices to students. Then 2.5 million has been made available nationally to the purchasing cooperative SIVON, to buy as many laptops and tablets as possible. If school boards cannot reach a solution after consultation with municipalities and other local parties, they can apply to SIVON. The provisional schedule is that they can apply until Thursday 26 March, 3 p.m. Of course, that could be today. Yeah, that's right. SIVON intends to assess the applications on Friday 27 March. Furthermore, there is all kinds of detailed information here that I cannot read from our President. Mr. Chairman. Mr Baudet asked: how are we going to design the school exams, and how can that be digital? The schools are currently busy taking the final school exams. They can do this physically at school, subject to the directive. They can also opt for a form of scrutiny in which they do so remotely. Some schools do, too. The form of assessment that is appropriate varies from one subject to another. That's judged by the school. Schools make their own assessment. Mr Slob is working with the school field on a good beating/pocket scheme, a good legal design. As soon as possible, he will return to it in the direction of your Chamber. The VVD asks: where can schools and students go for questions about the exams? The Ministry has daily contact with all education sectors. They have that again with their supporters. A lot of information runs through those channels. If schools have additional questions, they can contact the Exam Window, the regular contact point for questions about exams. Students can ask questions to the LAKS, or to their school, of course. On national government.nl/exams questions and answers can be found about the exams in secondary education. All schools also receive information about the exams via the Board for Keys and Exams. Together with the Exam Window, the inspection, the VO Board, LAKS and the platform for exam secretaries, we inventory all the questions that arise at the moment. We will provide them with an answer as soon as possible. A number of other questions, Mr President. The first question is from Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. She says, "I'm worried about some kids at home. When they're in school, they're kept in sufficient view. If they're at home, they won't." My own wife is a school social worker. She does indeed have a day job right now to call after all the children to ask: "How are you? Are you okay? Find me if it doesn't go well." That's happening from school social workers at the moment. It is also indicated from Safe Home: we stay ready. If you call 0800-2000, you'll just get Safe Home. Safe home is just doing its job. But I do agree with you very much that I think we need to communicate more about this, because we see that the domestic violence is spreading. It's not that crazy in this time of year. In short, this is what I like to do. Thank you for this encouragement. I'd like to get on with it. Then I have a question here about vaccine development. A number of groups have asked for this, in my view the VVD and the CDA. I thought Mr Heerma asked about it. Mr Wilders has also asked for it. People asked about vaccine development: why is it so complicated, and why are environmental rules in the way of the speed of development? De Telegraaf indeed indicates that strict environmental rules make the Netherlands unattractive for testing a new corona vaccine. Speed is crucial, but whether these vaccines are tested in the Netherlands or in England, the rate of development of the vaccine in itself does not matter. It is a pity for the Netherlands if companies choose to do the development elsewhere. I am also pleased that the Ministry of IenW has shortened clinical investigation procedures from 120 days to 56 days in general and especially for corona to 28 days. This is probably the fastest way forward in Europe. Can pharmacies make medicines themselves? That was Jesse Klaver's question. Yes, under conditions, pharmacists can prepare medicines themselves. This must be done within the framework of the law, so in principle it can only be done for patients of their own. But of course this is a different time, so we really need to see if that can't be wider. What is involved in pharmacists is that they must, of course, be able to obtain sufficient raw materials. This is, of course, problematic, especially now that India has closed the export borders, because that is where many of our raw materials come from. By the way, Mr Van Rijn communicated to you this morning about the central control over the availability of corona-related medicines. Together with the CBG and IGJ, he keeps his finger on the wrist when it comes to the availability of medicines used on the ic. The shortage of other medicinal products, through the Working Party on Drug Deficits, is also closely monitored. That letter went to the Chamber this morning, but it could have been last night. Finally, a question from Mr Jetten: Germany invests a lot in research; do we? In many European countries, money is being released at national level, including from us. Examples are Germany, Spain, Denmark and France. There is a need for greater coordination. That is why the European Commission is working on coordination and scaling up through different calls. From Horizon 2020, it amounts to 47.5 million. Seventeen projects have been launched. Dutch parties received 7.5 million of these. Innovative Medicines Initiative accounted for 45 million. The pharmaceutical industry is also expected to make 45 million available. This amounts to a total of 90 million. European countries consider the following things important. One. The use of society, science and business. Two. Not a heavy call, but a quick procedure. Three. Various types of research are important: vaccination, epidemiology, artificial intelligence, big data and so on. Also think about sharing knowledge through open science. On top of that, the Netherlands' commitment is a contribution of 10 million from VWS and from OCW through the NWO there is also a contribution of 10 million for corona research.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u308	Are you with this...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u309	Das war es!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u310	Okay. Mr. Jetten?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u311	Even with the two times 10 million that the Minister now mentions, I believe that the Netherlands still spends about six times less money on scientific research than the countries mentioned by the Minister himself. I would therefore ask him, in next week's letter, to have the Minister for Medical Care and the Minister of OCW discuss in greater detail how we can release additional resources. They are often Dutch research groups at Dutch universities, and Dutch companies, which can raise a lot of that money, not only from the Netherlands, but also from Europe. Finally, Mr President. Mr Klaver's question was also about the raw materials of the medicines. Perhaps the Minister could comment on that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u312	I think I've gone into that. I said I was going very fast. But raw materials are a problem. That's always playing. If pharmacists can make it themselves, that's nice. But if they don't have raw materials themselves, it's a problem at all. In addition, of course, the shortage of raw materials by the lockdown of India and parts of China, which I have just referred to, will be involved in the Working Party on Drug Deficits.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u313	Thank you. I think you're done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u314	I think so too, Mr. Chairman. I get the feeling you're in a hurry or something!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u315	No, but you've spoken for almost two hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u316	I'd say I've never been this short!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u317	Well... I see that Mr Azarkan wishes to ask another question. You can't do that anymore. You've been through your interruptions. You can take it with you in your second term. I shall now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Veldman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u318	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answer by both directors. It is good to hear from the Minister of Health that he does not randomly choose an instrument or just the hardest instrument in terms of legal measures, but also looks at the effect of an instrument. We've known for several months that IenW is investigating. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a vaccine against the new coronavirus is being developed in the Netherlands, which is likely to be tested in the United Kingdom and the United States due to strict Dutch environmental rules;]] [[noting that pharmaceutical companies are required to apply for an environmental permit through the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State for clinical testing, this is a time-consuming procedure, thereby blocking the rate of development of vaccines;]] [[noting that, in comparison with other European countries, the Dutch application of European environmental legislation ensures that clinical research into advanced vaccines, e.g. cell and gene therapies, does not start or is delayed;]] [[considers that the complex Dutch rules are dated and do not meet the requirements of this time;]] [[believes that research carried out in the Netherlands should also be completed in the Netherlands so that the Dutch can take full advantage of it;]] [[calls on the Government to accelerate the procedures for clinical trials as a matter of urgency so that new medical treatments and technologies, such as the vaccine against the new coronavirus, can be developed and tested more rapidly in the Netherlands, and to inform the Court in early April,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Veldman, Mr Jetten, Mr Segers, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Krol, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Wilders and Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-180]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u319	Mr President, we already had the text, so that's okay. If we had to register it listening, it would have been harder. My question concerns one of the concerns that is also taking place at this time of crisis, namely that the crisis is being used to distribute all kinds of powers and to exclude rules. I have the impression that this motion does a little bit of that. I ask the VVD why they do not specifically focus their request on testing the corona vaccine. The cabinet has already said something about this. Why does she choose to say with her motion with one stroke of pens: the Dutch rules for protecting the environment are dated and do not comply with this time? Then you do what we are warned about: this crisis is being abused to put aside all kinds of laws and rules that had a good reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u320	This is a discussion that's been going on for months. The Chamber discussed it earlier with the then responsible State Secretary Van Veldhoven. It's not gonna work. The researchers in the Netherlands simply indicate: we can and want things, but for those clinical investigations we then have to go abroad because the Netherlands has stricter rules. This crisis, in which our own researchers really want to work on working on a vaccine, shows that those rules are just not of our time. So now is the time to join what other countries in Europe are doing: a level playing field, the same rules, and therefore to delete our rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u321	Thank you, Mr. Veldman. No, Mrs. Ouwehand, not another interruption. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u322	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister of Health has agreed to have 1,600 beds on the ICU on Monday. We'll see if that's true. It is not just about Monday, of course, but also about after that. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Wilders/Asscher motion was adopted on 12 March last, which calls on the government to use all means and to do everything possible to achieve sufficient ic capacity;]] [[points out that it is unacceptable that the ic capacity is still not in order;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that ic capacity is increased in such a way as to avoid shortages and give them the greatest urgency,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Wilders, Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Krol, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Azarkan, Mr Baudet and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-181]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u323	Then there's a motion on the protective equipment. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a huge lack of protective equipment, such as mouth caps, for people working in care, both in hospital care and in home care, community care, nursing care and other care facilities;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that sufficient protective equipment is available to each healthcare worker within one week at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Wilders, Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Krol, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Azarkan, Mr Baudet and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29295-182]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u324	Madam President. Finally, a motion on testing policy. The UMCG in Groningen has already done this for employees. I think all the employees in the care deserve that. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the UMCG implemented an amended testing policy last week, whereby care workers who have mild corona complaints or who have roommates with such complaints are tested standard for the coronavirus;]] [[calls on the Government to establish the test policy used in Groningen for the whole of the Netherlands as soon as the number of test kits available permits,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Wilders, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Krol, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Azarkan, Mr Baudet and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-183]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u325	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Cabinet for the first-term response and the commitments on ic capacity, on a letter next week that explicitly addresses the state of play with the rapid test, and on protective equipment in home care, care for the elderly and disability care. Given the first-term debate on the availability of sufficient tests in the Netherlands and the pressure put on them by various means, I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that frequent testing is of great importance for the effective control of the coronavirus;]] [[Whereas there is now a shortage of test material;]] [[noting that the Task Force has been instructed to ensure sufficient testing capacity through procurement and production and the distribution of available capacity;]] [[Whereas a special envoy has been appointed to carry out the production of tests in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that this results in the short term and to consider the use of further legal measures towards the private sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Klaver, Mr Veldman, Mr Jetten, Mr Segers, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Wilders, Mr Krol, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Azarkan, Mr Baudet, Mr Van Haga and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-184]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u326	Mr President, thank you to the cabinet for the comprehensive first-term response. Thank you for the recognition that communication needs to be improved on a permanent basis and for the commitments on ic capacity, on the possibility of investing more in scientific research and on the special attention given to the cultural sector and events that are now in uncertainty due to this uncertainty about 6 April and 1 June. Together with colleagues Veldman and Heerma I have tabled two motions on the development of vaccines and the availability of sufficient tests. This year we celebrate 75 years of freedom in the greatest freedom our country has ever known since the war. This time we do so without shelters or raids, but with enough food in the supermarkets. What we need to do with each other now is to keep enough distance from each other for each other. We can do that, can't we? I wish the cabinet, all the people in the ministries and in the care very much strength and success to further reduce the spread of the virus in the coming weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u327	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u328	Mr President, thank you. I want to make two points. Firstly, the medicine and the lack of it for the coming period. The Nederlandse Vereniging van Ziekenhuisapothekers has done research among its members. Then we see that for about two weeks there are drugs in stock. I would like to stress that it is of the utmost importance that we open the hunt for all the raw materials that are needed and not just for ready-made products. The same applies to pharmaceutical recipes if they do not have sufficient production capacity. We need to be able to make this ourselves. These are essential medicines to help people suffering from corona and who need to be treated in intensive care. It is also a question of palliative sedation. I'd like to pay great attention to this. I have a motion. I like to read it to you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several healthcare providers are at risk of experiencing acute liquidity problems as a result of the corona crisis;]] [[considers that the continuity of care such as mental health care and community care is of great importance to all Dutch people;]] [[Whereas healthcare offices and municipalities reimburse additional costs for healthcare providers, including costs for protective devices and costs due to higher absenteeism;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that healthcare providers do not end up in acute liquidity problems and to make concrete arrangements with health insurers to prevent this, for example by maintaining turnover and fees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Klaver, Mr Krol, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Segers, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Jetten, Mr Azarkan, Mr Veldman, Mr Wilders and Mr Asscher.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-185]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u329	Two motions, Mr. Chairman. So I'm gonna start fast. One is about stopping home care and one is about the protective equipment for caregivers. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that caregivers in hospital care, disability care, care for the elderly and care of people at home need protective equipment to be able to work safely;]] [[noting that caregivers still have insufficient protective equipment at the moment, which prevents them from doing their job safely;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to ensure that caregivers are able to work safely, at least immediately using all the possibilities of producing these protective equipment in its own country;]] [[calls on the government also to use it for care as soon as possible in other sectors of the Netherlands where protection equipment is still on the shelf,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are healthcare providers who reduce or stop household care or community care due to the coronavirus;]] [[declares that it is undesirable for caring people to be deprived of necessary care;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that care providers continue to provide necessary care taking into account the health of healthcare providers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Hijink, Mr Asscher, Mr Krol, Mr Klaver and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-186]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen and Mr Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-187]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u330	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answers. I am glad that Feike Sijbesma is here to help, I am glad that Martin van Rijn is here to help, I am glad that so many people are coming back from retirement to help fight this terrible crisis. I wish the Cabinet every success in the coming weeks and days. It is important to make it clear that we also need the companies now. Many set a good example. The companies that don't need a little help. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas more RIVM testing results in a more efficient approach to preventing the spread of the Covid-19 virus;]] [[Whereas insufficient lysis buffer is available in laboratories and manufacturer Roche does not want to make the prescription available;]] [[calls on the Government to use all means, including, if necessary, a compulsory licence, with a view to protecting public health, and to inform the Court accordingly of the manner in which it is designed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Krol, Mr Azarkan, Mr Wilders and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-188]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u331	Thank you, Madam President. Also thank the messengers for all their hard work today and, of course, thanks to the cabinet members for their response to the issue of communication, ic capacity and testing capacity. I have co-signed motions which give further encouragement on these three points. I myself have the next motion on a group that was not mentioned in the letter, namely the homeless and homeless. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of homeless people in the Netherlands has risen to nearly 40,000;]] [[Whereas the establishment of sufficient places for reception, accommodation and quarantine units for this group is important for the protection of the health of this vulnerable group and this is also important to enable that group to follow the rules to prevent the spread of the coronavirus;]] [[calls on the Government to take the lead and to make every effort to reach, in consultation with municipalities and civil society organisations such as the Salvation Army, early agreement on the achievement of adequate reception and quarantine facilities and the placement of homeless people,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Jetten, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher, Mr Veldman, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Klaver, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Wilders, Mr Krol, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Van Haga and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-189]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u332	For the sake of clarity: if the cabinet takes the lead and enters into consultation, that can of course also cost some money. It will not be entirely free, but I encourage good consultation to be there for that vulnerable group as well. Finally, Madam President, a word of thanks and encouragement for people in care, people who are now taking responsibility in all kinds of places and certainly also the cabinet: wisdom and strength, especially if this takes longer than we now hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u333	Thank you, Mr Segers. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u334	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to the crisis ministers and their support, all working hard to overcome this crisis. It is good to hear that next week's ic-capacity seems to be certain for what is needed there. That's a relief. There are still concerns about testing and protection materials. I don't have any motions of my own. I have co-signed several motions from colleagues. I would like to inform the Cabinet that if we are all putting civil constitutional freedoms into effect in order to overcome this crisis, the Animal Party will support that, but it is far-reaching: the freedom of assembly has been suspended, the freedom of demonstration has been shut down. If Roche doesn't release that recipe: demand that recipe! Mr. Chairman. Once again, the Prime Minister has not responded to the Party's plea for the Animals not only to take virologists seriously now, as we ask them "please help us" but also to take their warnings seriously. The risks we run from the outbreak of such a pandemic are not such that we can think that this happens once every 30 years. Marion Koopmans and her research group have concluded that between 2009 and 2015, on average, such zoonoses occur once a year, including Q fever, including MERS, including Schmallenberg. So ask the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the Ministry of Foreign Trade now, at this time, to reduce that risk as well. Not the crisis ministries; they have other things to do, but these ministers really must ensure that this does not happen again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u335	You really don't have any motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u336	I don't have a motion. Thank you to all my fellow Members who have made all kinds of good proposals that I was allowed to co-sign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u337	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u338	Thank you, Madam President. Two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the doors of nursing homes have been closed to family and other visitors as a result of the corona crisis;]] [[Whereas people with dementia are in strong need of continuity, regularity and predictability;]] [[Whereas employees experience a considerable workload and carers can reduce this workload;]] [[calls on the Government to reconsider the role of (a limited group of) carers in nursing homes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government provides much important information on the measures taken as a result of the corona crisis;]] [[Whereas it is vital that all residents understand this information;]] [[Whereas the language used on websites and during press conferences is not, or only partially, understood by many people;]] [[calls on the Government to make the most of its efforts to make all communications as simple as possible in language,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-190]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Krol, Mr Jetten, Mr Azarkan, Mr Van Haga, Mr Wilders, Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Segers, Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Veldman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-191]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u339	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the rulers for their response and for their commitments. I'd like to make one more motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the corona virus not only spreads in the Netherlands, but also affects (development) countries which do not have a high-quality health care system and a stable food supply;]] [[Whereas the impact of a large-scale outbreak of the corona virus could therefore be much greater in those countries;]] [[calls on the Government to seek to maintain and, where possible, extend existing aid and support to these countries in the current circumstances, in particular as regards health care and food supply,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Segers, Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-192]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u340	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the rulers for the answer. In my first term I talked about a clear approach, decisive leadership and unambiguous communication. I asked a question about the approach that has not been answered. It referred to the fact that, following the measures taken by 23 March, at some point the ic capacity would be too low. My question was: when did the cabinet know that and what variables were wrong? Besides, I have a motion. It's about people wanting to be buried in a place where they have eternal grave rest. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the travel and transport restrictions resulting from the corona crisis have led, among other things, to the fact that people may not be buried in another country;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control,]] [[calls on the Government to provide appropriate support to relatives of deceased persons wishing to be buried abroad and unable to do so due to the corona crisis;]] [[also calls on the government to engage in talks with congregations in order to establish, in the short term, locations where to bury with eternal grave rest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-193]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u341	Finally, I wish the Cabinet, as well as all healthcare providers, a great deal of strength and wisdom in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u342	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. Mr Baudet has the floor on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u343	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you to the government for the answers to my questions. Most of it has been answered clearly. I think we can move on. I have only one motion, also in the light of what I announced in my first term, on the contentious declaration of subjects which cannot now be steered by the Chamber because the Chamber does not meet. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in order to control the corona virus, all meetings in the country will in any event be cancelled until 1 June 2020;]] [[noting that in principle the Court is only debating the coronavirus;]] [[noting that the government continues to take many irreversible politically sensitive decisions;]] [[Whereas the control function of the Chamber is severely restricted by not being able to debate government decisions already taken or planned;]] [[Whereas it is highly undesirable for the government to take politically sensitive decisions, without the Chamber being able to control the government in the best possible way;]] [[Whereas the Court may decide to declare politically sensitive matters controversial and may call on the Government not to take, in principle, irreversible decisions on those matters;]] [[points out that, at the earliest opportunity, each Committee of the European Parliament shall draw up a list of politically sensitive subjects so that the Court may vote on a list of subjects at the earliest opportunity and thus declare them controversial,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet, Mr Wilders and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-194]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u344	I share Mr Baudet's concern, but I have asked the cabinet and I have been given the undertaking that the proposed decisions and decisions will be submitted to the Chamber and that the Chamber will be able to comment on them. Then we need to see how we do it in these times when we don't meet physically. The cabinet has promised that it will do even better than usual to make sure that the Chamber can say something about it, always. So why is this motion necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u345	Because it's not about the Chamber being able to say anything about it and then it's up to us to decide how. We now have the situation that we don't meet in a meeting unless we change that situation. As long as the situation is like this, you don't have to make any decisions. You have to shut it down to the maximum. I understand that there are current cases that have to go through for legal or economic reasons. It always is. This is also the case after an election before a new government has been formed. Of course, you never shut down the whole country. No one's arguing that either. But we do say, boys, everything... Take such a situation as with the nitrogen measures or the 200 million to Dutch houses off the gas again. Those are the things you think we can discuss in two months or three months, when we get back together in a normal way. Take Albania and name it all. The farmers can't demonstrate now. Surely it is reasonable to postpone the democratic decision-making process? I really don't understand how you can be against this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u346	Of course, it is important for Parliament to be able to do its job and control the government for the implementation of policies and laws and regulations. That is why we have agreed with each other that any group we wish to discuss can submit subjects to the group chairmen' meeting so that we can still have a debate on this subject. I would actually ask Mr Baudet to take part in the group chairmen' meeting next time. Then I would like to hear the list of subjects that Mr Baudet wants to discuss and then we will organise it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u347	Which group chairmen didn't I attend? I was there yesterday. But of course Jetten almost made another point that Baudet wasn't there. Oh, too bad, missed! Try again next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u348	Mr President, I apologize. I did not hear Mr Baudet in the group chairmen' meeting yesterday, but fortunately he was able to listen. But again my question...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u349	My microphone was broken and I discussed it with Mrs. Arib. I gave my input in writing to the group chairmen' meeting. It's okay with me. But stop capturing cheap flying: you weren't there, you weren't there. That trick has been applied a hundred times now, a hundred times not funny. The first time it was fun, then it wasn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u350	I'm gonna get you both...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u351	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u352	No, Mr. Jetten. We had a good debate and it went well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u353	A point of order. I take back my remark from just now. Mr Baudet was there and I should not have said that. But my question is still very serious. If there are issues he considers so important that Parliament should discuss them, I understand. But on that we made an agreement with each other that we would recite it and then we would meet if we had to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u354	I really think that's something else. It's not a rebuttal of the motion. In a back room with your phone on Skype, discussing something with the group chairmen is really something other than discussing a subject here in front of the nation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u355	But, Mr. Baudet, the Chamber has an influence on that. That's kind of important to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u356	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u357	In the end, the Court decides which subjects are and which are not discussed. We are also doing this on the basis of proposals for legislation and so on. I just noticed. I think it's a misunderstanding. Thank you. I thought it was going very well. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u358	Thank you, Mr President. Many thanks for the commitment and the response. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that Sanquin blood bank is launching a study to collect blood plasma from cured corona patients, examining whether the antibodies found therein help to reduce corona symptoms in other patients, in particular from the risk groups such as the elderly and people with underlying health problems;]] [[noting that Sanquin states that successful research results may prevent recordings on ic and even hospitalisations;]] [[noting, however, that Sanquin indicates that blood plasma from cured corona patients is scarce and will take time to collect sufficiently;]] [[whereas the GGD approaches cured corona patients who have been cured for two weeks with the demand to donate blood plasma, but not all corona patients are in the picture due to lack of tests at the GGD;]] [[calls on the government to consult with Sanquin and discuss how a general call to cured corona patients to donate blood plasma can support the Sanquin study,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Krol, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Haga, Mr Ouwehand and Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-195]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u359	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the Netherlands there is no policy of testing everyone for the coronavirus;]] [[Whereas the method of "testing and isolation" has produced very good results in countries such as Taiwan and Hong Kong;]] [[calls on the government to examine whether the fight against the coronavirus can be optimised by adjusting its policy, with intensive testing and isolation becoming an important part of the various corona measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-196]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u360	Mr. Chairman. I would ask for sufficient time to go over the motions before the votes. We were thinking of a 15-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u361	But that's after the minister. That's fine. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u362	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u363	Mr. Chairman. On the motion in part No. 180 I shall leave the judgment to the Court, with reference to the first term. At the motion in part No. 181 I would like to make a number of comments. I read here the request to the government to ensure that ic capacity is increased in such a way that there are no shortages. All of them, but also all of them, are committed to this. In that sense, I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. I see this motion as an endeavor. I would ask the authors of the motion to look again at the qualification 'it is unacceptable that the ic capacity is still not in order', given that we have done everything we can to implement the motion that has been tabled before, and that, as Mr Gommers has just confirmed, we have capacity at the moment and next week. This may mean that you could look again at the qualification in the piece "pronounced'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u364	That's the motion in part No. 181.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u365	Then, having said that, I leave the judgment to the Chamber. From the motion in part No. 182 I can only say that I will do my utmost and that I will do my best, but I cannot guarantee that every healthcare worker is provided with. That's not how it works. I will do everything I can to ensure that there are sufficient protective equipment, but there is a real requirement for results in this. I find it complicated to say yes to that, because I think I should be honest. What I can't guarantee, I'm not gonna guarantee. That is why I would advise against this motion, but I naturally share the need to do everything possible to ensure that there are sufficient means of protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u366	As far as I am concerned, this too should have been dealt with yesterday. Perhaps we can let the Minister make a judgment of the Chamber by turning 'at the latest one week' into 'at the shortest possible time'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u367	The Wilders c.s. motion. (, No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a huge lack of protective equipment, such as mouth caps, for people working in care, both in hospital care and in home care, care, nursing care, nursing care and other care facilities;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that sufficient protective equipment is available to every care professional in the shortest possible time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] She gets no, was no. 182 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u368	If I have made it clear that it takes the utmost effort to do everything that is necessary, then I can indeed leave the judgment to the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u369	The motion in part No. 183 I'm going to dissuade. Not because I do not agree that we should increase the test capacity, but because the motion suggests that there is a very different test policy in Groningen than in the rest of the Netherlands. What we need to do is get as many tests as possible to the Netherlands. With this commitment we are very much in agreement in all possible ways, as explained in the first term....... but there is no "Groningse test style." There is a RIVM directive and we must abide by it. So I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 184. I would like to leave that to the Chamber. In view of the list of signatories, that is also quite sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u370	Yeah, the whole room's underneath.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u371	Exactly. My fine political feeling told me that it was wise to do so. Then the motion to part No. 185. I would also like to leave the judgment to the Chamber, referring to what was in the letter yesterday and which will also be left in the next letter. We are fully engaged in ensuring that care institutions do not get into financial problems right now, because they do have something else to worry about. Then the motion to part No. 186. I'll leave that to the Chamber. Several initiatives are under way to start production in the Netherlands. This may not be a solution in the short term, but it is necessary in the longer term. So I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. This also applies to making every effort as soon as possible to use all protective equipment available in the Netherlands for the care. So here, too, the judgment of the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 187. I would also like to leave the judgement to the Chamber. I will come back to this in more detail in next week's letter, because I think it should be part of a more thorough approach at all to how vulnerable people can be supported at home while keeping a finger on the wrist, but I have just indicated that. So I'll leave this to the Chamber. At the motion in part No. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: It's about the "by-by-by-by-by messages." I do what I can and what works. If "per-circle" means that a solution gets further away instead of closer to what you obviously don't want, then I'm still waiting with the "per-circle." So yes, I'll get on with it and I'll let you know at the shortest possible time. That's how I read this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u372	And then it's judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u373	Then it's up to the Chamber to decide. Also on the motion on item No. 189 I leave the judgment to the Chamber. This seems to me to be a good task for Mr Blokhuis to work with the municipalities. I think I know he's already working on that. I apologise for not answering your first-term question. Then the motion to part No. 190: "Rethink the use of carers'. I can't do that for the sake of security. Verenso but also the RIVM are really very clear. And ActiZ is also very clear on that basis: don't do it, no matter how painful it is. We really need to hang on to those measures in the nursing home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u374	Mr Krol, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u375	I owe you six more, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u376	No, they don't count anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u377	I understand the problem the Minister has, but those carers can be very important. That is why I would like to reformulate the motion and would like to say: ask the government to discuss with RIVM again what this role of carers in nursing homes might be like. 'Cause they're so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u378	I'm not gonna do it because I'm gonna create uncertainty, and I don't want to. But I do think that those carers are very important, so I will do so next week to inform you how we can actually put all these good examples of keeping contact between carers and people in the nursing home in full sunlight, so that other nursing homes learn from it. I'd like to make that commitment, but I'm not going to recommend this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u379	I don't know what the exact text is or is, but we all feel the same point. Could the Minister at least look again at how this works in practice? Are there certain custom solutions in particular cases? And what lessons does he take from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u380	That's what I want to do. I have just promised that to Mr Krol. But then it's about good examples. On the directive itself, I do not want to leave any ambiguity, because it is so painful for a lot of people to have to do it this way now. I do not want them to take advantage of this motion or what we say about it. Many people are looking into it. I am really afraid that we will have to continue with this measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u381	Good. Then the motion to part No. 191 by Mr Krol, too. There are also a lot of MPs underneath.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u382	Yes, they are asked to do "communications in as simple a language as possible." Of course, we're gonna try that every time. We very much agree with that, so I leave the judgment to the Chamber. As regards the motion on item No. 192 on aid to developing countries, let us judge the Chamber. The commitment of the Netherlands is, of course, unchanged on that point, so we also leave the judgement to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 193 by Mr Azarkan on the creation of sites. We really leave this to congregations. We've got so much central to do and control. I think that this is really a subject to leave to municipalities, because I think that they can shape it in a very appropriate way. So I would advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 194 on intensive testing. I think we've said enough about that with each other. We're on the same track, I think. That does not mean that we will immediately turn the Netherlands into a kind of Singapore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u383	What number is this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u384	194, I thought. No?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u385	It's Mr. Baudet's. I hear from the audience: 'that does not need to be judged'. Oh, the motion in part No. 194 "speaks out." That's right. I can't believe you're still so sharp!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u386	Oh, I'm sorry. Boy, I'm mixing up all those clerks. I can see it. I can see it. I can see it. I don't have to judge that. That was a motion in your own direction. Then the motion to part No. 195 to enter into consultation with Sanquin................................................................................................................... I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber on that. It was the motion in part No. 196 that was about the tests. I would like to understand myself together with RIVM with Taiwan, Hong Kong and other good examples of intensive testing policy. Of course, we can only apply this if we have more possibilities ourselves, but I think we are on the same track there. So if I can understand the motion in that way, I'll leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u387	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u388	Then I have a few more questions to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u389	But before you continue, Mr Krol first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u390	I am going to make it easy for the Minister on the motion in part No. 190. I understand that the Minister is constantly consulting with RIVM on this matter. I'll hold the motion until those calls.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u391	At the request of Mr Krol, I propose his motion (25295, No. 190). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u392	Just a few more questions, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u393	Yeah, just a few more questions. A question has been left by Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen from the Prime Minister's first term. Can an employer force an employee to come to work? We call on employers to allow workers to work at home as much as possible until 6 April. In addition, the call for the employer to spread the working hours of workers as flexibly as possible. An employer can't just ignore the cabinet's appeal. If it is really necessary for an employee to appear at work, then an employer must be able to support it. An employer must also take maximum precautions to prevent contamination in the workplace. What can an employee do if an employee has to come to work, but does not provide the employer with a proper justification for the need or does not take the necessary precautions? Then an employee can lodge a complaint with the Inspection SZW, whether or not together with the or or with the trade union. Furthermore, good consultation is always the best. This also applies here, of course. Then there was a question from Mrs Ouwehand about zoonoses. I think it's okay if I pick that up with my colleague Schouten. I will come back to that at the next minute. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u394	Yes, thank you. Mr. Azarkan. One question, apparently, about the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u395	No, I'm not. I asked the Prime Minister three times in my first term, and I saw that Mr De Jonge actually wanted to answer that question. That didn't work either. My question was following yesterday's briefing. Measures were taken until 23 March. At some point, it was found that these measures would not lead to the flattening expected. Around April 3 there would be a shortage of ic-beds. When was that found? What other variables have unpacked?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u396	The way we've chosen to work is that we let the RIVM and the Outbreak Management Team be leading. They advise and we decide, but on the basis of their advice. The anchor points in our approach have always been: can the care cope and do we protect our vulnerable people sufficiently? We've always had those two anchor points. With these two anchor points in our hand, we have always looked at how the graphs of the RIVM run. Indeed, we have seen at a number of times that we had to switch. At all these moments there was an advice from the Outbreak Management Team and we have informed you: this was the advice and these have been our measures. How we have reached decision-making is, therefore, as transparent as it can be, and it has always been in the direction of your Chamber. This is the opinion and this is the decision. Our anchor point has always been the advice of the Outbreak Management Team. We have always focused on these two important goals: can our care be handled and do we protect our vulnerable elderly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u397	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u398	No, I'm sorry, Mr. Azarkan. Thank you. That concludes this debate. There is another comment on something in the letter, but I am committed to correcting it. It is a government ruling on the meeting of the States-General. There's 100 members there, but it's 150.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u399	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u400	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-26-tweedekamer-3.u401	There is a need for a short suspension of 20 minutes before we vote, I understand.
