ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the third incidental supplementary budget on the employment and economic emergency package. A warm welcome to both ministers. Oh, yeah, she's almost Minister. A warm welcome to the Minister and the Secretary of State, who is almost Minister. The speaking time is known to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u2	I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS notes that in the second emergency package a temporary bridge for flexible labour is limited to three months: March, April and May. We call for this group, which is deeply affected by the corona crisis, which is predominantly young and in the construction of their social life, not to be diverted to assistance. This puts heavy pressure on their income security and only increases their distance from the labour market. Don't let that happen. Mr. Chairman. We have also had a lot of letters about corporate takeover and the right to the NOW. Has a good solution now been found for the many problems? I would like to hear a response from the Minister. We ask the Minister again: explain to us why it is fair that an independent entrepreneur under the AOW-age does not have a capital test via the Tozo for special assistance, and a ditto entrepreneur over the AOW-age, who has to claim the AIO for this. Mr. Chairman. Then the partner test at the Tozo. A lot has been said about it. It really should be deleted. A lot of people get in the way of this. The first sounds of abuse are already coming. We all knew that in advance. Can the Minister say something more now? What happens if the inspection finds out? Mr. Chairman. The first blows to workers and businesses have been met with impressive emergency measures. Does the Minister agree with 50PLUS that these very expensive packages can only be really effective in combination with an extraordinary effort to intensively personally accompany people from work to work? Or by retraining them into jobs and sectors of opportunity, in order to prevent people from becoming long-term unemployed and giving us high social security costs? Then you help the economic transition due to corona. A deltaplan work is needed for this, as proposed by OVAL for example. Is the Minister prepared to put his shoulders underneath? An incentive subsidy, as the Netherlands learns by, is welcome, but totally insufficient. This crisis is not the time to leave investment in retraining and further training to private parties. Companies cannot invest heavily in this now. As in the previous crisis, do not let time be wasted in introducing massive flanking labour market policies. Take direction now, our urgent appeal to this minister and the cabinet. I'd like a response. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Like children at their birthday, most people eagerly looked forward to May 11th and June 1st. Kids are thrilled to see their master again. You can reserve at your favorite pizzeria again. Grandma's finally getting a visitor again. For many, the new normal is also difficult to maintain. Kids want to give the teacher a hug anyway. Can you or can you not meet more than two people at the pub? And is a present for Grandma safe? Mr. Chairman. As much as the new normal is challenging, we must not forget what the old normal meant to many people. In the old normal there were also children at home, not to protect public health, but because there were not enough teachers for the class. In the old normal way a lot of people couldn't eat out, because a hot meal was already a luxury at the end of the month. In the old normal, some elderly people were already lonely, because the people in the care went under the high workload. Mr. Chairman. Many people have longed for another normal, a better normal, for example people with insecure jobs. The cleaners who got fired last year didn't have a safety net to fall back on. There were no aid packages for the self-employed. There was no protection if something happened to you. Also before the crisis, one in nine children grew up in poverty. Even before the crisis, 30s were forced to live in the attic with their parents. Even before the crisis, our planet became more polluted and exhausted every day. The crisis shows how badly a new economy is needed. Back in the day, VVDs used to tell you to fix the roof while the sun was shining. That was an argument to cut back, even if the treasury grew. Now we're hit by a hurricane. Are we really going to do something to combat poverty? Are we going to offer more security to self-employed people? Are we going to make sure that flex people are put into permanent employment and that companies are going to pay fair taxes on profits and pollution? A lot of people are wondering, how are things going later? I'm asking the Cabinet to come up with a vision on this. 'Cause we're applauding for the heroes, but the wages aren't going up. The filler stands up for day and day, but the minimum wage does not rise. We see how quickly self-employed people can lose their income, but we do not offer better protection. We give all children a carefree youth, but the cabinet says it's fine if poverty increases, because work would pay more. We have all missed the outdoor air, but the tax on CO is also being postponed. I don't want to talk us down, but I'd like to call on the Cabinet to use this crisis to work on a better normal. We can do that in the short term. Let us give people security and protect jobs and income. I therefore have a few questions for the cabinet ahead of the time after 1 October and the discussion with the social partners this summer. One. We need to strengthen the safety net for flex workers, who need it so badly. Platform workers are now out of business. FNV shows that these are just temporary workers. Is the Minister prepared to adapt TOFA so that these platform workers, such as Temper, are also entitled to this safety net? Two. For many people who were fired in early March, the WW is now over. These are thousands of people. Is the Minister prepared to extend the WW? And what is the perspective for all those people who are now on welfare or who are now excluded from it? Three. We are now seeing old habits on the part of larger employers. People want security now and not companies that abuse the rules. Will the Minister amend the regulation to prevent mass redundancies? Four. After this corona crisis, we need to get to a new economy, the better normal. This does not mean infinite flex and provide jobs for people who are longer on the sidelines. Is the Minister prepared, in line with Borstlap, to limit the number of flex workers per company? Germany has already set an example. And will the Minister involve the fine initiative in Groningen with basic jobs in the work agenda with trade unions and employers? Five. Is the Minister prepared to pay for training for people in welfare and the WW, so that people can actually get back to work quickly? Six. Young entrepreneurs under 21 years of age who are there.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I find that unfair. Like all adults, they also have to pay the rent, the groceries and the tax in full. That is why we have an amendment. Does the Cabinet want to take over this? Mr. Chairman. This crisis also offers opportunities. I didn't think of that myself, but someone smart once said that. That used to be a right-wing argument to cut back. This time let it be an inspiration for a better normal. Now that society is becoming more vulnerable, the need to provide people with new security is even greater. For the Labour Party, security of existence is for everyone the solid ground under the feet of all people The Netherlands. It's priority number one, two and three. For that solid ground beneath the feet offers people the perspective to look beyond today's day and to look at the people around them with a wider, open and positive look. It will do our society good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u6	Thank you. The chair is cleaned first. In a moment Mrs Tielen will be speaking on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u7	Mr. Chairman. A tray with a stick of 1.5 meters as a handle. Plexiglass bulkheads between checkouts. New opening hours. Tapes to empty seats or stickers on empty seats. Entrepreneurs and organisations show themselves from their creative side, adapt and return to business. Let me pay a big compliment to all those entrepreneurs from this place. The Netherlands needs this kind of creativity, strength and adaptability to work out the crisis, despite the virus. In fact, the Netherlands needs everyone to reinvigorate the economy. The government also takes its responsibility to get out of the crisis and stimulate the economy. The VVD supports that. The first phase was acute. With a huge bazooka, an unfocused, gigantic support package has been kicked out of the ground, which is quite feasible and reasonably verifiable. For 2.5 million people, this is a welcome support in the maintenance of their jobs or a concession in their income. The first phase seems to be effective, but was not yet completed. My question to the Minister is: what is the state of affairs with regard to the 'administratively poignant cases': companies which were not eligible for an adjustment in legal form or wage declaration number, but were part of the NOW's intention. How many companies have still received an award? How many have been rejected again and what are the reasons for that? I'd like an explanation. In the meantime, some of the companies that were acutely closed in March have been re-opened. Hairdressers cut again, cafes serve again and buses run again. We are in a new, second phase, asking for new solutions. But some sectors and sub-sectors are actually still in that first phase, without any prospects of activity. The travel agencies are working their way around with rebooking and their turnover is only just getting back on track. The trade fairs see opportunities go up in smoke because they are considered events. The bus drivers cannot understand why they can take a different number of passengers by public transport bus than for a trip. When does the Minister expect these companies to have a second phase? Does the Minister consider that the current second package is sufficiently in line with these companies? The VVD supports this support package and expects this package to contribute to the maintenance of employment and to help people keep their heads above water. Can the Minister indicate how many jobs he expects to keep in the air with this package? When does he think it will be sufficiently effective? Mr. Chairman. Of course, we all want to get out of this crisis. We all want the economy to recover, the number of unemployed to fall and the number of jobs to increase. We all want perspective and confidence in the future. This second package of aid contributes to this, but more is needed. I therefore have a number of questions to the Minister about the follow-up, about sectors that are still ahead and about training and reintegration. First of all, I would like to hear from this Minister how he looks at a possible follow-up. How does the cabinet proceed after the end of this package in September? When will companies be clear about this? Is it also being considered whether more targeted measures might be possible? I'd like a response from the Minister. Some sectors are not affected by the crisis at the moment, because there is a long pipeline between assignment and execution; think of construction and technology. I believe that's what we call late-cyclical, to stay in the jargon. To what extent are these sectors taken into account in the reflections on a follow-up? Can the Minister indicate how the government also contributes to keeping these companies going? The previous crisis showed that a large number of construction workers and technicians left the sector and never returned. This has affected not only the sector, but the whole of the Netherlands. The VVD thinks we should learn from these kinds of findings. Does the Minister agree and, if so, what is he going to do about it? Then we automatically come to reintegration and education. Can the Minister explain more about the use and effectiveness of the NLWorks platform? What about the platform NL learns through? What does the Minister expect when it comes to users and their effectiveness? As far as the VVD is concerned, it has always been important, but now more than ever, that people who lose their jobs or their jobs are already heading for new work, even if new work can be better found in another sector or new professional skills are needed. How are things with the reintegration of UWV and municipalities now? How quickly does guidance on reintegration and retraining start? How much faster or less fast is that than before this crisis? Do all workers have access to training? Mrs Van Brenk has already mentioned this or does it really matter whether you are a social worker, a social worker or a social worker? I think it's time to break those bulkheads. Is it not also time to arrange with the social partners for R & D funds to be released for all labour and potential labour in the deficit sectors in particular? I think it is time for a breakthrough in what we call lifelong development, which I keep calling lifelong learning. Not 37 jars and arrangements, but an approach that is clear and forward-looking for all people and businesses. Mr. Chairman. The phrase "never washed a good crisis" has never been quoted as often as it has been in recent months. Let this crisis be the breakthrough in the field of a lifetime. Does the Minister agree with me? When can I see his proposals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u8	Thank you. I see Mr Öztürk at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u9	The VVD, the entrepreneurial party, wants education; a lifelong learning, a wonderful story. Last time we tabled a motion to support student entrepreneurs, who are entrepreneurs but also learn, from the Tozo scheme. The current cabinet in which you participate and provide support simply drops student entrepreneurs. About the student entrepreneur who wants to learn and undertake, we have tabled a motion, but you drop him. You then keep a story about learning and entrepreneurship, yet you drop them. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u10	Mr Öztürk is throwing a group of people into one pile: all those student entrepreneurs we all drop. That's not true. There are students who have an enterprise in addition to their studies. Some of these companies are not doing well. By the way, a lot ofzzp'ers, also student-zzp'ers, go on and on. Sometimes they do even better than before the start of the crisis. We have chosen to allow the Tozo to apply to people who really need it, who see their entire income fall away. We ensure that they are not tested for their assets, that they do not take into account the viability of their business and that they receive compensation. Students are not covered by these criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u11	So you're dropping them. You say: we have chosen people who need it. But a student entrepreneur needs it. You send the student entrepreneur to DUO: go borrow money. Anyone can borrow money. At the moment when a student entrepreneur wants to mean something to society, you drop him directly. You come up with all kinds of arguments, but eventually you drop them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u12	I don't see it that way, and that's what I hear from those student entrepreneurs. They say: we just have to make sure that our little business runs again and that we get our studies; that is our main challenge. They feel less abandoned than you seem to suggest here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u13	Thank you. Anything additional? Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u14	Since this is a matter of legislation, I also have another question. The VVD is talking about September. What's gonna happen after September? What you hear in society is that the present cabinet will satisfy everyone until March, after which there will be a new cabinet that will take tough measures. Hundreds of thousands of people will become unemployed. Isn't it hard for the voter? The current cabinet gives loans, gives money and makes people a bit happy, but next year March, April or May the new cabinet will make people suffer even more. Do you not think that the cabinet should clarify the period ahead?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u15	I ask the Minister what happens after September. I agree with Mr Öztürk that if you are an entrepreneur and have no idea yet how to keep your business in the air, keep it going, how to keep the jobs, you should have some perspective. For some companies this is already a bit so, but for some not yet. So I am also very curious what we will do after September. I think the most important task this year is to ensure that those jobs are preserved, that people stay at work and that we can continue to move forward to ensure that our economy recovers. The outlook is bleak. I've seen all the CPB bills, too, and I didn't see one of them that I thought would make things a bit of a mess. So we need everyone in the Netherlands to move forward. I think that's the assignment to this cabinet now. As far as I am concerned, the cabinet meets that, but I am also curious about what the cabinet does after September.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u16	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u17	I am pleased to hear that the VVD spokesperson also says that we need to clarify now. It cannot be that the present Members of Parliament leave a legacy for another cabinet, which then takes tough measures. People need clarity now. I think it is a good thing that we get the cabinet to clarify before the elections how things will be in the coming years, because I think that we will have tough measures after March or April, after the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u18	No one can predict the future. Mr Öztürk suggests a bit as if you can make a picture of what it looks like in June 2021 and what it looks like in March 2022. We all know that's not true. No matter how hard you try, things can happen that make it completely different. Perhaps this year we have seen this more than ever in recent history. However, I believe that both the government and the parties should make clear what, as far as they are concerned, are the criteria for that future. For the VVD that is, of course, that we need everyone to ensure that the economy can move forward. So work, work, work; I think that's the motto of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u19	That is in itself the motto of the Labour Party, perhaps in a different way, but we are going to see that. We just talked about the student entrepreneurs. I would like to talk about the entrepreneurs under 21 who do not study but run a full enterprise and meet the hours limit. We have tabled an amendment to admit this group, a relatively small group, to the Tozo. How's Mrs. Tielen from the VVD in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u20	What I find very complicated is that this is going to be technical very quickly. I feel sympathy for what Mr Gijs van Dijk says. When you're 19 and you've had a pretty thriving venture that goes away, you suddenly get a completely different concession than when you were 21. I find that weird somewhere, too. At the same time, we in the Netherlands have a number of agreements about how we set up our social security at all. The age limit of 21 is one thing, because parents also play a role in this. So I hear what Mr Gijs van Dijk is saying, and at the same time my answer is that I am not going to do something for a group in which I feel a lot of involvement and where I really think it is weird, which means that you are going to dig down the whole set of agreements that we have built carefully and democratically in the Netherlands over the past few decades.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u21	Certainly, that is not our intention either, but all aid measures are temporary and quite exceptional. Exceptional measures are needed in exceptional times. So this could be one. It's only a couple of millions. That's not so bad in a billion-dollar package. So again the appeal: shall we jointly, the VVD and the Labour Party, as before, arrange this for this group?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u22	Mr. Van Dijk is trying to untie something in my heart. Of course, that's very charming and I admit that I'm always sensitive to that. At the same time, again: I'm not so excited about pulling a thread somewhere and digging out a whole foundation. There is a pitfall at this time, which I also belong to Mr Van Dijk: there are so many billions already; then the few million will not matter. A few million per Dutchman is still quite a bit of money, which we all need right now to move forward with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u23	Mrs Tielen of the VVD makes a huge plea for good learning, developing a lifetime or whatever we call it. However, we see that the cabinet and thus the Chamber in total now make 25 billion available for social aid packages, with a total of 50 million going to retraining and continuing to learn. Doesn't Mrs Tielen of the VVD think this is a bit of a flimsy, while the task is so enormous?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u24	This is where exactly what I said is happening. I always think: one, two, three... a lot. So a lot of billion and a lot of million. 50 million, I can't quite imagine what that looks like. Mr Smeulders is of course partly right: it seems very little. However, behind this 50 million ECU, and I think that is what the Minister has to do, and what I am going to look at very critically, is something huge, and I have just mentioned it: 37 jars with even more billions of euros in training costs, which must be freed from that. In my opinion, it is the duty of the Minister to make sure that with the 50 million he gives a trigger, a "what do you call it" in Dutch, to release those billions; a flywheel. That's the minister's job. And that is why I have asked a number of questions about the platforms that are there and about the R&D funds that are behind it. I'd like to see that happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u25	Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u26	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Look, I think we all agree that we need more money, that we're probably not gonna make it with that 50 million. At least I hope so, because that would be incredible. The question is whether that 50 million is enough for the first step, if you hear it say UWV this week: we actually need 500 million, if we want to do it right. If we see all kinds of other initiatives coming out, isn't 50 million just too little? That is why our proposal: add 100 million. That may not be enough, but I find that very difficult to estimate. Only then will we know that the Minister can move forward in any way, and that he can come back when more is needed. Does the VVD agree with us that 50 million is actually just too low a starting amount on such an incredibly important file?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u27	I can't judge that because I don't know exactly what the Minister is going to say, but I'm going to release the 50 million. So if Mr Smeulders says: if it turns out that more is needed... And indeed, in my view, we share, and I think that will be Chamber-wide, that if people stay on the job, they will indeed become labour-fit in other sectors, which need money. I can see that. I also see a lot of billions lying on all kinds of boards and in all kinds of jars. They need to get loose. Turns out, in a month or two, three, the minister says "50 million seems too little, and see what I can do with 100 or 150 million," then I'd really like to look at that. Ultimately, it is not about spending money; it is about creating effect. And I want to see what the Minister can do with the 50 million. I think he should just get to work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u28	Thank you. I shall now give the floor, after the chair has been cleaned again and then it is clear to the viewers at home that everything is neatly disinfected again to Mr Smeulders on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's an incredibly exciting time for a lot of people. A lot of people wonder if they still have a job, now, in a few months, in a year. And it is certain that we are facing a really big economic blow; all the planning agencies, all the consultants, make that very clear. So a lot of people are probably gonna see a real fall in income. And what we, as GroenLinks, really hate about is that this is probably going to affect people who are already vulnerable: often people with a lower income; people with an uncertain contract; self-employed people, who had a very high risk of poverty even before this period. And that's why we're happy, let me start by saying that the cabinet has rigged up support packages to make sure that people don't just have a huge income drop in one go. It is also a good thing that we speak about this as a House of Representatives. In our view, the big question for today's debate is: what will happen to the period after 1 October, what will the package look like? For my group, it is incredibly important for the Chamber to be properly involved. And I would also ask the rulers to say so. Will the Chamber have the opportunity, before these new packages of aid come, to discuss it, and to give and direct the cabinet a number of directions? When are we gonna hear about the emergency package? Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks does have some ideas about what a next round should look like. I'd be happy to give it to the rulers now. The first point we would like to draw attention to concerns the sectors which are likely to remain silent as a result of the corona measures. It may well be that there will be a press conference today saying that there is more to be done, but it is simply that a number of sectors are still incredibly burdened by the measures imposed by the cabinet and by the government, with all the good intentions that we support. Can the cabinet reflect on that? Is it willing, for example, to continue the NOW, but perhaps in a slightly different form? Is that an option? Is it not also a real option to re-introduce part-time work, to make it attractive again? During the previous economic crisis, we saw that the part-time WW, for example, made a real difference for companies such as ASML, from the so beloved Brainport region, because it allowed it to keep research teams together and to invest in knowledge and innovation. In the end, it maintained a great deal of employment at the time and made sure that there was much more employment after that. Is the cabinet prepared to do so? If you've been looking at how to keep people in employment, the next question is what you're going to do with those people who are unfortunately going to lose their jobs, because that's probably going to happen, no matter what we do as a government. In our eyes, in the eyes of GroenLinks, we must create a very strong safety net for those people. That is really necessary, we think, especially for young people, because we see that they take the first blows. Young people often have little to fall back on, because they still have relatively little power. As far as we're concerned, we start with extending the WW, because the WW is a very nice income-dependent measure, so you can avoid going back into income at once incredibly much. We know that the cabinet has previously indicated that the extension of the WW is complicated, also in terms of implementation. I think I read in letters that it takes a few months to prepare that. My appeal will then be that I would perhaps like to table a motion to begin now, because then we will know that we will probably be able to do so in October. Can the Minister respond to that? Then you have the step: what are you going to do with people who are not entitled to WW and who are not entitled to WW if we extend it by six months, something that we are very much in favour of? In our view, you should continue the Tozo and the TOFA and perhaps turn it into a more generic scheme, a kind of crisis income. In our view, contrary to what the cabinet thinks, there should be no partner test andzzp'ers will be entitled to benefit individually. Is the Cabinet prepared to look at such an arrangement? And perhaps more specifically, is the Cabinet prepared to continue the Tozo after October? GroenLinks is an incredibly strong supporter of this. I honestly do not know whether the cabinet intends to do so, so I would very much like to hear it. Maybe I'll ask some of my colleagues later. Maybe we'll come up with a proposal for it. Then there is a point that is already going on, the TOFA, the flex worker scheme. A while ago, I think we indicated to Parliament that we really need to have such a flex worker arrangement. He's here by now. She's a little hairy, if I'm being very honest, because the amount you're getting is pretty low. But what really surprised me was that it only applied for the first three months of the crisis. From this week on, you can register, but it's only for the first three months of the crisis. It's been a few months. That's weird, isn't it? Why, for example, are we still going through the regulation forzzp'ers and are we now setting up a whole new system to give flex workers something for just the first three months of the crisis? I don't understand that very well. GroenLinks has tabled an amendment to it. I would very much like to hear the Minister's response to this. Mr. Chairman. Then my final point, retraining. That's what the interrupting debate with Mrs Tielen was actually about. I believe that everyone in this Chamber recognizes the usefulness of this. It always strikes me in the debates we have on this, that they are actually the least exciting debates of all, because then there is much less political opposition between the left and the right, between labour and capital or between workers and employers. Everyone sees the importance of this, but I find it striking that so little is happening on that file. In the meantime, the cabinet has made 25 billion available to help companies andzzp'ers, but of this 25 billion, 50 million are available for retraining. I find that an incredibly low amount, looking at the task we are facing now. That is why I have a number of specific questions for the government. Shouldn't we be making a lot more money available for learning jobs? Is the Minister prepared, for example, to extend the grant scheme for practical learning and extend it to, for example, HBO? Should we not ensure that everyone who is going to train in a deficit sector gets a scholarship? Is the Minister prepared to increase the funds for the R&D funds where necessary? How are we finally gonna settle this? News hour had a very good broadcast last week about.................................................................................................................................................................................................. Because we know that there are sectors that are likely to shrink and that there are sectors where there have been huge staff shortages for years, often sectors in the public sector, such as care, education, police and defence. Please, let's get people working in those sectors. Is the cabinet willing to give municipalities, UWV and trade unions extra money in order to jointly guide people to the right training paths? I think the UWV has indicated this week that it takes 500 million. How does the cabinet feel about that? In concrete terms, what does the cabinet think of our amendment to make available not 50 million but 150 million at this stage so that a great deal of energy can be put on this dossier? My final question is addressed to the Secretary of State. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that training should not be an exclusion criterion for a benefit in these special times? If we all say that we want people to retrain and invest in themselves and develop, I find it very hard to tell people that they shouldn't do that from a benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u30	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Palland on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has chosen and is able to extend the emergency package. Not for three months, but for four months. This will keep the economy going, support entrepreneurs and preserve jobs and income security for hundreds of thousands of workers. The CDA welcomes this and is also grateful that this can be done to this extent. When discussing the first package we already indicated: one size doesn't fit all. The first emergency package was announced and implemented very quickly but it did not suit everyone. It is good to experience that the cabinet had an open ear and eye and has for the signals from society and that adjustments have been made in package 1 and in the package before us. For example, the NOW has been improved at an early stage by adjusting the group criterion and in the follow-up package by a higher remuneration factor for employers' contributions. In addition, seasonal effects have been taken into account in parts, the Tovo for flex workers comes to execution and we welcome the new Nl learns through. Does that suit every entrepreneur and enterprise? The answer is a simple but frustrating no. Every day, we still receive various signals from entrepreneurs and workers or workers falling between shore and ship. It is the reality that we cannot help all of them, but that does not relieve us of the obligation to point out to the cabinet what it is crunching into. Therefore, the following questions. For companies that were taken over or started in February, recourse to the NOW is not possible, we read. Can no tailor-made work be done here, because most of the company's data, including turnover and staff, are simply known and can be backed up by audit reports? We have a technical follow-up question about the cost-plus companies. We receive reports, also from the NOB, the Dutch Order of Tax Advisors, that these companies, for example, whose production facility is located in the Netherlands, but the sales office is abroad, cannot rely on the NOW scheme, because their turnover and their costs are in the staff. Therefore, if they receive NOW support for their personnel costs, they do not have a demonstrable turnover loss. Several manufacturing companies may be in trouble. Is this problem and signal from the NOW known to the Minister? Does he see any opportunities to support this? Does the Minister intend to set up a committee of wise men for specific distressing cases? The NOW and TVL, the support scheme for SMEs, cannibalize each other in some measure. For the TVL, a relatively high threshold of 30% turnover loss is built in, but it can be just too high if the NOW is included. How does the Minister view this? Isn't this compromising the effectiveness of the TVL? I realize that the TVL is under Economic Affairs, but the NOW is under this minister again, so I'm going to bring it up here as well. The corona training package "NL learns by" seems to focus on online education and much less on the actual retraining of workers and entrepreneurs from surplus sectors to deficit sectors. How can we ensure that this measure is mainly provided to the vulnerable on the labour market, so that they really know about this scheme and take advantage of the advice that is being made available? How do we ensure that this becomes a multiplier for other schemes and develop initiatives around a lifetime? Can the Minister state what is going on with the abuse and improper use of the arrangements? Is it possible to check properly and effectively? Is the compensation for the child care contribution ensured that childcare organisations also pay their share, the part above the maximum hourly rate, to parents? In the Tozo scheme for self-employed people, we have repeatedly called for attention to be paid to the problems of entrepreneurs in the border regions. These are about 3,500 Dutch entrepreneurs who pay taxes here, but are not entitled to income support in either country. What is the state of implementation of the Van der Molen/Palland motion adopted to reach a solution before 1 July in consultation with neighbouring countries? Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group has recently spoken to many entrepreneurs through online sessions. Support measures are highly appreciated, but there is a particular need for clarity and perspective, including in support measures. Family businesses and manufacturing industry expect the big fall to come. The catering, events and culture sectors see that they are being hit hard for a long time. Where the effects of the corona crisis will continue to be felt for a long time, both emergency packages are of a temporary nature. So far, they have always included short-term calamity instruments. What is missing is a toolbox with ready-made economic instruments to mitigate shocks in the economy in the longer term, instruments such as part-time WW or measures to make workers more adaptable and enable them to adapt quickly to changing circumstances. How does the Minister view this? On 5 March, Mr Van den Berg and I tabled a motion on the preparation of such an economic toolbox. As far as we are concerned, it must now be implemented quickly, especially for those companies for which turnover losses have yet to come. Can the Minister answer that? Finally. The corona crisis is painfully putting its finger on the sore spots of our labour market. Among other things, flex workers and zzp'ers form vulnerable groups. If we are to strengthen their position sustainably, we must take the system forward and fundamentally reform the labour market. The CDA is therefore looking forward to the cabinet response to the Borstlap Committee's report on the reform of labour law and the establishment of our social system. Let the compulsory AOV for self-employed persons be a stepping stone for a basic scheme for employed persons. The urgency is there, more than ever.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u32	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u33	A point by Mrs Palland about thezzp'ers, who are getting into trouble. You can already see this in the second support package, for which that partner test has been introduced, which means that many of the nearly 1 millionzzp'ers are mercilessly caught. Because if your partner has an income, you're not entitled to anything. How does the CDA feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u34	That is indeed a considerable tightening-up of the regulation as it stands, but I think we have reached a new stage, as Mrs Tielen said. Some people can just get back to work. Entrepreneurs must also relate to the crisis. Of course, the emergency package is not designed to compensate everyone completely. It must lay a foundation, and that is what it does with this measure. For those who cannot rely on their partner's income, for example, the Tozo scheme is still available.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u35	In addition, Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u36	Yes, but that means that a significant group ofzzp'ers will now be hit hard. Take, for example, the arts and culture sector. I assume that the CDA also has a warm heart for this sector. That's where they're really screaming murder and fire, for good reason! They're asking for an emergency plan. The SP, GroenLinks and the PvdA have made a proposal to give additional support to the cultural sector. Is the CDA tempted to think with us about how we can support these people? 'Cause if they don't, they're gonna fall down like hell.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u37	A specific plan for the cultural sector has, of course, already been made available through Mrs Van Engelshoven. I see your body language, it is of course limited in size, but it must do something about this infrastructure for the cultural sector. Besides, I just indicated that this is a soil. It's a relapse option for those who don't have a partner with an income. Nobody gets happy about the crisis, everyone gets hit, including this sector, but there is provision for a soil. Therefore, these people do not need to be chased out of their homes and there is no power test, but a soil in income support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u38	I would like to go on about this, because this package now runs until 1 October. Does the CDA also think that the Tozo should be continued after 1 October forzzp'ers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u39	I'm a little hesitant about that. I have just stated in my contribution that entrepreneurs want perspective above all. They are very pleased with the emergency measures taken by the cabinet, at least that is what I hear back, but they want, above all, room for action, to relate to that one-and-a-half-metre measure where it still stands. A lot of sectors can get back to work. I refer to the contact professions and so on. We also see that a number of sectors are particularly affected for a long time. That doesn't apply to everyone. And we see that in a number of sectors there is still a lot to be done. I heard you talking about that, too. You spoke of the part-time WW. We need to think about that. That is why I am asking the cabinet about this. For specific sectors, in which the self-employed are active, we may need to put forward a follow-up package. I don't think it should necessarily be a generic extension of the Tozo. I think there should be a perspective. This concerns both the enterprise space: what can you do, how can you, if that virus remains among us for a long time, as an entrepreneur in that one-and-a-half-metre society? There we must offer an action perspective. In addition, there must be a safety net for those sectors which have been hit hard for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u40	Mr Smeulders, supplementary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u41	It's interesting, of course. We are also for tailor-made work by sector, but I really do wonder if you can filter outzzp'ers well, that onezzp'ers is eligible for it and the other is not. Maybe the CDA can tell us if that's possible in their eyes. Does the CDA agree with me that measures such as part-time WW are good measures, but that they do not do anything to help them? Does the CDA agree with me that it is precisely for thosezzp'ers that you should continue to arrange something separately and that a continuation of the Tozo, in whatever form, is actually the most obvious?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u42	It could be. I do not want to rule that out in advance, but I would point out that it is not an automatism either, because it is now a very generic, broad regulation. I actually put forward the comparison with the part-time WW in order to outline that, because we are going to have a long time to experience its effects, we have to do something about it. A part-time WW can be a good arrangement for this. Of course,zzp'ers cannot make use of this, but then we will have to think about how we can best support the people who are active in the affected sectors, even as self-employed entrepreneurs. That could be from a specific derivative of the Tozo. It may be that with turnover thresholds you can reach the truly affected. I can't quite see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u43	This debate is also a quest, because what to do after 1 October? That's what I hear Mrs Palland say. She's got a good story about that, too. This morning in the NRC there was a very moving and good piece about the initiative in Groningen for the basic jobs. Several cities are working on that. Isn't such an initiative for basic jobs, which I've heard the CDA about before, something we should include in that work agenda for the Cabinet? To see if that's something that offers perspective for people who have difficulty taking the step to regular jobs and who could do a basic job as a first step?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u44	As you know, we are indeed in favour of the basic job. We do differ a little bit about what such a basic job should look like. We think it is relevant that this should not be subsidised voluntary work, just to put it bluntly. It really has to be a stepping stone, getting rhythm back in a regular job, with a regular employer, where you get out of the WW again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u45	Let's get this straight. It is for us, too. It's about real work. Often the image of a basic job is that it is purely a grant job. No, a lot of work still needs to be done, if you look at how much work remains in the municipality. Only, what goes with that is that a government tries to boost that with public money and also tries to get people into regular work. So I guess we're not that different from each other there. Perhaps we can give it to the cabinet this summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u46	There are still two motions on the basic job, from your colleague Asscher and one from myself, so they are still hanging over the market. But the principle of a basic job is also mentioned in the WRR-report and in my opinion also in Borstlap. Oh, I think the Minister has even promised that he will come back to that when he responds to Borstlap. In a joint search for how we can shape that to get people back to normal working life, you will find us on your side.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u47	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga on behalf of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Also on behalf of the Forum for Democracy for the occasion. Mr. Chairman. In March, we didn't know much about the corona virus. And despite the fact that we were too late and that we had done things differently with the knowledge of today, all kinds of rigorous measures were taken at that time. The Netherlands locked up and the economy came to a standstill. Converts fell to zero and entrepreneurs saw their businesses enter the danger zone from one day to the next. In Dutch companies it became a bloodbath like never before. It is estimated that tens of thousands of companies are still going bankrupt because of the government's corona measures, not because of the corona virus but because of the restrictions imposed. In the meantime we are three months further and we know much more about the virus. We know that corona is far less contagious than previously thought, and we know that the transfer takes place mainly in-house via aerosols. We know that good ventilation is of great importance and we know that in the outdoors there is hardly any danger of contamination. We also know that corona is only dangerous for people of age in combination with all kinds of other conditions. But despite the fact that we now know so much more, this knowledge does not lead to an adaptation or relaxation. The cabinet continues to persist in the measures that have been rigged up in the time when we thought these measures were really necessary. My question is why? In particular, the cabinet perseveres in the bizarre one-and-a-half-metre society. Even the RIVM couldn't explain why we're doing this. But one thing is clear: it leads to a dystopian society in which many tens of thousands of companies will unnecessarily go bankrupt. We now know that this is totally unnecessary. The entrepreneurs, the SMEs, thezzp'ers, the catering industry, the shopkeepers, they all pay a huge price for wrong policies based on false assumptions. It is therefore perfectly understandable that the Royal Horeca Netherlands has suspended consultations with the Cabinet. The one-and-a-half-meter society is unnecessary, undesirable and leads to enormous damage. So please stop this. Can the Minister tell me why there is no rethinking of the one-and-a-half-metre society now that we have so much new information? Mr. Chairman. As I said earlier, the best support that Dutch industry can get is the immediate abolition of all corona measures. Of course, it is a good thing that a large support package has been put in place. I also understand that this Minister and, of course, the Secretary of State are working hard to implement all the regulations. Compliments for that, but the sad thing is that the reason has disappeared and that we have been swimming in a trap that this cabinet can't or doesn't want to leave anymore. Then we'll talk about the arrangements. Together with Mr Baudet, I have tabled a motion calling for generosity in defining the SBI codes that will eventually be covered by the TOGS regime. The motion was adopted Chamberwide and indeed a large number of SBI codes have been added. But why is it still so difficult? Do I really have to mention all kinds of SBI codes here, like the ones from ballooning? If the government decides that the ballooning, with SBI code 5110, has to ground the balloons because of corona, then it is not to be explained that this SBI code is not eligible for the TOGS or the NOW? SBI code 85599, homework guidance and tutoring, is not mentioned in the TOGS scheme, while the municipality has ordered closure from mid-March to mid-May. Can the Minister explain why homework guidance is not eligible for TOGS? Then there are many Kafkaesque examples of bureaucratic dramas that entrepreneurs must undergo. For example, if you convert your one-man business into an e.g., you get a new payroll tax number. Nowadays, it's called a pay-as-you-go number. Suppose you do that on March 15, 2020 and the Tax Office or the UWV will look at the wage bill in the reference period January or February 2020. Then they'll find that no pay has been paid on that new payroll tax number. No, thank you for the cuckoo! Of course not, because those wages are paid on the old payroll tax number of the same company. However, despite the fact that the company has not changed de facto, only the legal form has changed, these companies are not eligible for the NOW scheme and are potentially going bankrupt. Can the Minister explain to me why no customization is possible here? It is not about large numbers and everyone agrees that this apert is unreasonable. The same problem also applies to companies which have recently been merged or taken over. I am glad that Mrs Tielen and Mrs Palland have already mentioned this problem. I'm considering a motion on this point. Another sector that is dealt with very badly is the event industry. Entrepreneurs and suppliers see their life's work go up in smoke. Again, not by the corona virus, but by the measures of the cabinet. While we know that there is no contamination outside and that the one-and-a-half meter measure has proved useless, there is no prospect for this sector. I understand very well that this Minister and the Secretary of State are working very hard to pay all these billions of taxpayers' money to some of the victims of this cabinet's actions. But the solution is so simple. Ongoing insight shows that a large number of events can take place fine, outside without problems and inside with good ventilation. Why does the Minister not seek solutions in this direction, for example by using the tent industry? 90% of the tents are used at village parties and small events. It is precisely through the use of tents that ventilation is optimal, but because of the rigidity of the cabinet everything is forbidden and this whole sector goes on the bottle. Can the Minister look at this again, or at least check with his colleague from VWS how long this tunnel vision will last? Furthermore, there is no question of tailor-made work in relation to young entrepreneurs. It's been said before. The example is a twenty-year-old entrepreneur who is not eligible for the Tozo because he is not yet 21, while taking the same risks under the same conditions as his 21-year-old colleague. Bureaucracy at the top. What is the Minister going to do about this unfair situation? Finally, I would like to reiterate my support for the students who have lost their jobs because of the corona measures, but who are still excluded from any scheme. This completely ignores the fact that many students do indeed have a serious job, besides their studies. Why should they not simply be eligible for aid? It would be much easier if we were to use our minds and lift the corona measures immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u49	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u50	Mr Van Haga also spoke on behalf of Mr Baudet and Mr Hiddema, i.e. on behalf of Forum. A very good story, the outdoors, corona...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u52	... no contamination, all these measures must be removed, but it was last week or the week before that Forum and Mr Van Haga used a hugely exciting language when it came to the demonstration in Amsterdam? In retrospect, it turned out that only one person might have been infected. How can it be that on the one hand you are demanding a great deal of freedom for entrepreneurs, for your own supporters, while on the other hand there is something that you are using a lot of bad words for, say, even on Twitter?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u53	It's always nice to be interrupted by Mr Öztürk. I think we're the only two remaining entrepreneurs in the Chamber. That's good. We're fighting for the same cause. Sorry, there's another one. However, I assume that Mr Öztürk does not advocate a kind of lawless society, because ultimately: lex dura, sed lex. The law is harsh, but it's the law. So what I, and also Forum, have constantly argued for, is this. The cabinet naturally upholds the laws, or sets them. We make them and set them and then they are maintained. If we have a law then, of course, everyone has to abide by the law. This is without prejudice to the fact that the basis for these measures has completely disappeared. Of course, if there's a law, you can't allow a demonstration of 15,000 people all hugging each other somewhere in Amsterdam. But that is without prejudice to the fact that this has been proof of the fact that there is absolutely no point in having a law for outdoor meetings. I therefore strongly urge all of these measures to be lifted and simply to go back to good practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u54	That's politics, Mr President: on the one hand, you plead for something, but on the other hand, it doesn't suit you and you're going to speak hard words for your own supporters to tie your own supporters to you. That's exactly why a lot of people quit at some point. If you argue for more freedom, if you do not argue for one-and-a-half-metre society and if you argue for "nothing happens in outdoor recreation," then you should also be able to say about the demonstration in Amsterdam: it does not comply with the rules, but we as a Forum, we as Van Haga, think that these people should use the space to demonstrate. If you did, I think we could approach each other. Then I guess because a demonstration doesn't come out of you, we don't go in hard. No, then I think you can pursue an honest, transparent policy. Then you'll get more people behind it, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u55	I'm not just pleading for their own supporters. I am also in favour of Mr Öztürk's supporters. There are also a lot of entrepreneurs. Again, there's a law that says you have to keep that five feet. Then all that must be done and then there can be no demonstration. But of course, I'm not into those five feet. So I'm in favour of your supporters and my supporters getting rid of that 1.5-foot bullshit as soon as possible, so we can just do it again. Of course you can demonstrate to your heart's content.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u56	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Mulder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u57	Mr. Chairman. To avoid all kinds of misunderstandings, I'm not an entrepreneur. I was always a wage slave, but I was referring to my colleague Mr Van Aalst. That for the historiography. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is in severe economic weather. The number of workers continues to decline and our economy will shrink considerably this year. Thousands of workers are insecure about their job and income, or have already lost their job and income. Thousands of self-employed people are concerned about their assignments and income, or have already lost their jobs and income. We are currently looking at a social tragedy that is taking place before our eyes. All this happened under the first aid package. Then you would think that it would not be conceivable for a new support package to make it more difficult for the cabinet, by helping families who are already struggling to make ends meet, and by putting even more worries on them. That's exactly what this cabinet does, isn't it? In fact, the new aid package removes the dismissal penalty in the NOW. So companies will be able to fire workers without a fine. It's gonna be dramatic months. It is a wrong choice to reduce the promised support as the consequences of the crisis reach the common Dutchman. It is precisely now that we must give our full support. Mr. Chairman. The PVV has already proposed to give more support to the companies that are in trouble if they cannot fire people. Everything's better than being fired. I would therefore ask the cabinet once again to maintain the dismissal penalty as it was in the first aid package. The treatment of independent entrepreneurs must also be changed. For many self-employed people, the corona crisis means less or even no work at all. This automatically leads to less or no revenue at all. Those are big personal dramas. Those people can't help it. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, we all know Mr Wiebes of the VVD's view on self-employed workers. They didn't have to bitch, and he would have preferred to let them all go bankrupt, something with his own responsibility or something. Mr Wiebes was right to take back his words. But it looks like his ideas landed somewhere after all. That is a pity, because a further condition has suddenly been added to the current extension of the Tozo scheme, to the great shock of many self-employed workers. Because of this additional condition, the introduction of the partner test, hundreds of thousands of self-employed people will no longer be entitled to the Tozo, which was already not large enough. A cabinet with the VVD clearly doesn't care how independent entrepreneurs get into trouble. That's incomprehensible. Mr. Chairman. It is good that the cabinet has introduced the first support package. There was a need for it and there was also massive use of it. But it is incomprehensible that the second aid package will now make it so much more difficult for employees and the self-employed. It is precisely now that the government should unite its own people, rather than Africa and the European Union. Mr President, I will conclude. When the first aid package was presented, it was said that the point of departure was that the corona crisis would not put jobs, incomes and businesses at risk. Mr Koolmees also said literally: it is extremely important that people retain their jobs or their incomes. The PVV therefore wants to know from the Minister how he reconciles that statement of 17 March with the fact that he now gives companies the opportunity to fire many workers without penalty. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u58	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The first emergency package to maintain businesses and maintain jobs was widely supported in this Chamber and also in society. How different is that with this second package, in which the Rutte cabinet once again shows itself as the cabinet for multinationals and large companies. Flex workers had already been declared outlaw. There are now other workers andzzp'ers, because the door is opened to mass redundancies, or because they are no longer eligible for income support from one moment to the next, while the billions for multinationals such as KLM are flying out of the treasury. Mr. Chairman. I see the Secretary of State is also present. I would like to draw her and the Minister's attention to this revealing article: 'Planning agencies foresee strong growth in poverty in the Netherlands'. We talked about it last week. This is really not pretty. Poverty will increase by a quarter as a result of a structural reduction in assistance from 2011. That's excluding the corona crisis. He's gonna be fine. Read the article. Also read the portraits of the different people that are now covered. I would very much like a thorough response from the cabinet, because you also do not want poverty to increase by a quarter. I see the Minister nodding in agreement. I therefore expect an attack plan to counter this. The most obvious solution would be to stop the structural reduction in assistance by increasing the minimum wage. This is now linked to the benefits. Hey, another SP solution that makes the country better, another one. Mr. Chairman. Our biggest objection to the second emergency package is the termination of the dismissal penalty. This was necessary according to the Minister, who is being blackmailed by the big companies. Otherwise, they would not use the NOW and even more jobs would be lost. But what is now apparent from yesterday's Volkskrant's investigation? Booking will not benefit from the extended NOW scheme and other large companies, such as Tata Steel and the VDL Group, still have doubts, while using the NOW. So also the expiry of that dismissal fine does not make these companies cross the line. Then we might as well keep them, so I ask the Minister. After all, while another 10 billion in taxpayers' money is being allocated to businesses so that they can pay their wage costs, the Minister still allows them to put people on the street virtually unpunished. For the SP it is clear: if you as a company get up to 90% of the wage costs reimbursed with tax money, then you make sure that the employment level is maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u60	There's an interruption for you from Mrs. Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u61	I doubted for a moment, but Mr. Van Dijk is setting up such a wrong picture that I'm going to ask him exactly what he means. Mr. Van Dijk likes big words. They all like that with the SP: mass redundancies and large companies. Is Mr. Van Dijk aware that the vast majority of the NOW users I think more than 90% of the NOW users are companies with fewer than 25 employees? Is Mr. Van Dijk aware of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u62	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u63	Is Mr Van Dijk aware that all the rules of dismissal that we have carefully and democratically aligned in this country still apply to all those companies, whether they participate in the NOW or not? Is Mr. Van Dijk aware of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u64	Sure, but it doesn't matter. In the second aid package, the dismissal penalty was deliberately removed by the cabinet to give companies the opportunity to reform and to do all kinds of other things. But they are no longer being dealt with on the fact that they may be putting people on the streets massively. The SP is not happy with that, so we are considering a motion on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u65	Is the gentleman of the SP... Is Mr Van Dijk of the SP aware that we have indeed entered a new phase and that companies need to see how they can maintain employment as much as possible? All those who now have a job depend on such a company being able to continue to grow economically. Is Mr Van Dijk aware that companies should at least have the space to look at how they should adapt to the new situation and that they should at least have the space to make some adjustments to the workforce, subject to all the existing dismissal rules? There is still a reduction of 5%, partly due to the influence of the unions, if it is not done in consultation with the unions. I think we have a great deal of agreement to ensure that we can move forward in the economy and that as many jobs as possible can be preserved. It doesn't matter that Mr. Van Dijk makes such a caricature of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u66	It is very good to see how we are going to organise society in the future, what lessons we are going to learn and how we can say goodbye to some very wrong stimuli from the precorona era. But that does not mean that you have to unilaterally lay down the responsibility for and the consequences of this crisis on employees, and that is what happens by removing the dismissal penalty. I'd like to give that to the VVD lady. Mr. Chairman. A Chamber-wide motion by Mr Jetten of D66 called on the Minister to make a tough condition that companies using the extended NOW scheme should not pay dividends or bonuses or buy their own shares by 2020 and 2021. That is only right, as we found together with the rest of the Chamber. But now it appears that the Minister will only allow this to apply for 2020 and not for 2021, because the measures must be proportionate. The SP considers it very proportional to require this for 2020 and 2021 from companies that hold out for State aid. The vote on the request for an early vote will be taken at the end of the debate. Why doesn't the Minister carry out that clear assignment? Mr. Chairman. The income of about 2 million employees is complemented by the NOW. According to the Minister, training and retraining are very important, but then he only pays EUR 50 million for it. Then you're talking about a couple of tens per person. It is not even possible, in a manner of speaking, to obtain your veteran's degree, as we have calculated in the group. That $50 million is peanuts. Does the government share that opinion? Mr. Chairman. Self-employed entrepreneurs,zzp'ers, came from the first support package. While KLM or professional football clubs receive up to a ton of compensation for a pilot or a footballer,zzp'ers had to do it with a supplement up to welfare level. Now the extended Tozo adds a partner test, which means thatzzp'ers with a working partner are not entitled to anything at all. In three months' time, from a good income to assistance, many of the more than 1 millionzzp'ers are going to face major financial problems. Once again, we call on the Minister to drop that partner test. Mr. Chairman. Then we have the Temporary Bridging Scheme for Flexible Labour, the TOFA. Mr Smeulders was right to say that it is a bit shaky. You must have earned at least €400 in February, so many students are not eligible, and then you get up to €550 gross. This is not enough for the group that depends on this amount to provide livelihood. Why hasn't the Minister considered looking at actual income and meeting it by temporarily opening up the WW to this group, for example? Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis affects all of us and also our economy. It is precisely at this time that we must choose what is of value to society as a whole. That is possible if we come together to create a job plan for the future. In health care, in education and in the police, extra colleagues are needed. Does the government share that opinion? Mr. Chairman. Can these leaders also respond to the recovery plan for the cultural sector presented in de Volkskrant this morning? There are two important requirements in this regard. One: extend crisis aid. Two: set up an investment fund. That is the subject of debate with your colleague on Monday, but of course it is also up to the Ministry of Social Affairs. Finally, can the Minister outline all the outlines of the third aid package, which I understand he is considering?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u67	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis hits a lot of workers and a lot of companies hard and hard. With all the unprecedented support measures, the cabinet is also right, I think it has always been realistic that it would never succeed in taking away all that heavy impact altogether and putting together arrangements that would fit in such a short time. Mrs Palland rightly said the same thing. With that, there are all kinds of fringes on these support packages. It's annoying. We continue to emphasize them; I have a few of them as well. But the reality is that we will also see this severe crisis. We can already see that, because a lot of people used the NOW scheme, which allowed them to get paid and not be fired. We see that a lot of self-employed people have reported to the municipality for income support. But we also see the increase in the number of people who, for example, had to call on the WW and the assistance. This crisis will continue for a long time, so the coming months will be very difficult economically. Mr. Chairman. It is therefore also sensible for the cabinet to have put in place a second emergency package for jobs and businesses. That has the full support of the D66 Group. It is, of course, still waiting to see how the coming period is going to develop. I also saw earlier the debate on what we are going to do from October. My group has the same question. But I also find it very difficult to say something about that now. In all honesty, I have no idea what July looks like. I have no idea how much recourse to the NOW scheme is going to be, how many self-employed people are slowly but surely getting jobs and how many workers can get back to work. I know we probably won't be ready after 1 October. I am therefore asking the Cabinet to continue to do what is necessary, even after 1 October.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u69	We all don't have a glass ball, so it's very difficult for all of us to tell us exactly what has to happen after 1 October. However, as a Chamber, we can, of course, give a number of principles. I know D66 as a party that often defends independent entrepreneurs. We probably know that even after October there are independent entrepreneurs who are still struggling with the measures. Is D66 prepared to say that we should simply continue to help those self-employed entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u70	Yes, in events and culture, in sectors where you can see that we are still very far away from what it was like before the crisis, we need to think of ways to help those sectors and the people who work there. I find it very difficult to say whether that is the Tozo scheme, which you then extend, or whether you continue with generic support for the cultural sector. With the knowledge I have now, that seems to me to be a good reason. But again, three months is still a long way away. Let us above all hope that there will be no relapse. Luckily, it doesn't look like it. We're gonna have to keep doing whatever it takes. At the same time, we will have to ensure that it remains in balance with what is regulated for other people affected by the crisis, such as those in welfare or those with short-term WW benefits that end at some point. It's gonna be a balancing act. Self-employed but also companies and employees will continue to be able to count on D66 to do what is necessary. I can't say a sensible word about what the best way is right now. I'm very honest with you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u71	In addition, Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u72	It is hopeful that Mr Van Weyenberg says that D66 wants to do what is necessary. In our view, this crisis makes it very clear that we need a new social safety net with each other, in fact in line with the reports of the Borstlap Committee, which are pre-corona crisis. The corona crisis makes it clear that we need a safety net forzzp'ers, for example. That's why I'm so glad the cabinet came. I also hope that we can possibly arrange this together in a cabinet formation, but then it would be super, super, super unfortunate if we stopped with the arrangement that we now have because of the corona crisis in October because perhaps the crisis would get a little less bad? That can't happen, can it? Surely we must now offer the self-employed who are in uncertainty security for the next period?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u73	The question is how to minimise the impact in the best way possible. I can't see if that's this way or another. By the way, I am pleased with the somewhat regained attention for the self-employed at GroenLinks. I like that. I have heard from you in previous debates with your predecessors that there were, above all, far too many of them. I hope that with your contribution, which I appreciate, that will be a thing of the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u74	I see that Mr Öztürk wishes to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u75	Mr Van Weyenberg says: I do not know what will happen in three months' time. But D66 is the party the Prime Minister wants to deliver. She needs to know something more than what you're telling her right now. In addition, D66...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u76	We don't live in fairyland.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u77	Okay. D66 is also the party that says to stand up for education and for students. We've filed a motion to help student entrepreneurs. That's where I missed D66's support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u78	If I may ask Mr Öztürk for a little patience, I am going to ask questions about this point precisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u79	That's good, a number of questions, but do you have any direction that I can say you're approaching us?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u80	In fact, in the previous debate, I believe that Mr Azarkan, on behalf of DENK, asked about the support package, which has already been a few weeks ago, whether we could not do anything for students. Then the answer was: I would like to, but that does not fit in with the system of the Participation Act on which this is based, that it cannot. I'm using your interruption to say I'm keeping this question. I'd love to take care of it. The answer was that this did not fit in with the system of the Participation Act and that the Tozo was built on it, whether we like it or not. That reminds me a bit of the same debate we had earlier on the group between 18 and 21. So I repeat that question here today, because I would like to take care of it. The answer at the time was that this cannot be done. I'm deliberately asking for that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u81	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me also put the second question on the scheme for self-employed workers. Let me be honest: I have abdominal pain from how the partner test is re-entered. I am very pleased that the self-employed capital test is still inoperative. I also understand that the cabinet says this is going to take longer. Unfortunately, this has not been a very short crisis, where after a few months everything is back to the way it was before. We had all hoped that when this first package of aid came, but unfortunately that is not the reality. Then you have to do something with such an arrangement, also to make it fair to people with a ending WW benefit that lasted only three months or for people in the assistance, where the power test and the partner test apply. So it's really looking for balance, but at the point of the partner test I would very much have liked to take a middle course, for example by actually doing something about people with a high income. They now also receive this scheme, which they could apply for. The cabinet appealed for restraint. Many self-employed people have actually done so, but not everyone. I'm still looking for that middle road. Is it really not possible to do something in the middle, for example by assuming €1,050 if there is a partner with income, so by entering part of that partner test? We have already referred to this briefly, also in the previous debate on the support package. The Secretary of State wasn't there. So I would have liked to have explained this a little bit more: why can't this be done? Is this really completely impossible for municipalities? Did they really say that to this Secretary of State? No one was kept to the impossible, but I would have found an intermediate form appropriate. It's almost like a switch on or off, where there's no way in between. I would like to hear a really comprehensive explanation from the Secretary of State about this, because I personally would have liked it better. But the question is, of course, what can and what cannot be done. I also always have an eye that some things are not always possible at this time. We also have a lot of questions from municipalities and also from the UWV. Mr. Chairman. The third quest, of course, concerns the future. I really want to see how this is going to develop and we are going to talk about this even further, but I would ask for great attention from this cabinet, especially for those sectors that are still very far from what it was like in the past, especially for sectors where we know people are meeting there. That's what I call it. Those are parts of the catering industry, events, theatres and pop stages. It's a long way from where it used to be. How are we going to help these sectors in the future? I do not have the exact form yet, but my appeal to the cabinet is that we must remain open to this in the coming months. The same applies to the raffle edges around the NOW scheme. Mrs Palland mentioned the border entrepreneurs at the Tozo, but I still have a stomachache from the fact that people are suffering from payroll. Can the Minister say something about people who were in a payroll organization, about the workers there, who are now falling apart? I do not have the solution, but I think this is another sign that in that whole construction with those triangular relations we simply have to really change the laws, because this leads to outcomes that are not workable. I also said earlier, in the previous debate, that, in this corona crisis, we should not go to some sort of 'not now' attitude, whether it is about climate, labour market reform or investing in the future of the Netherlands. We need to speed this up right now. In this sense, I am really looking forward to the cabinet response to the Borstlap Committee's report. Yes, my group is in favour of such a system for all workers. I also see in this crisis a confirmation of how important that is, a painful confirmation. We already knew it; we felt the same way before the crisis, but the crisis shows this. But this has to be done in a way that people can work at the same time in the way they want to. I thank the Minister for the TOFA arrangement. It's abbreviations day, Mr. Chairman. Apologies for that. That's the flex worker scheme. That arrangement is far from perfect, but I think we have tried to take action for flex workers who fell between ship and ship with a united cooperation in this Chamber. I am looking at all my colleagues, perhaps a little extra to Mr Gijs van Dijk. They are now receiving a contribution of three months. It's not a big deal, but we made a deal. We had to convince the Minister, but I am glad that he finally fulfilled the wishes of the Chamber. I also welcome the fact that the UWV has quickly opened this arrangement. Mr. Chairman. I specifically ask whether we will also have very active progress reports in the coming months. To be honest, I am very curious to see to what extent sectors are getting back to work, self-employed people are getting back to work, workers are getting back to work, and the recourse to the NOW and the Tozo is getting worse for that reason. Of course, it would be good if that were to happen, but I find this very difficult to estimate. In my opinion, it would also be good if we kept our finger on the wrist very tight and if the cabinet were to inform us properly. Then, Mr President, we have a very nice report from Mr Roemer. I would like to thank him here for his report on labour migration, because I also think it is a very nice, practical report. It's trying to stay away from ideological debates. They're good for here. But in that he tried to look at: what helps now, with registration, with better protection, with how you deal with health insurance, for example. And I speak to a lot of people, from my party but also in the country, in municipalities where many migrant workers work, who see very practical ways in which they are useful, so I would like to call on the cabinet to really come up with an ambitious cabinet response. I would like to thank Mr Roemer and the people who did this to him for this inspiring report, which hopefully helps us to move forward again. Finally, I would like to say something about education. And I'm gonna finish, Mr. Chairman. During the previous debate, a motion was adopted by Mr Pieter Heerma and myself on the subject of education. And the 50 million, which, of course, is not enough, because these R&D funds need to be added. And the Minister also said: yes, I can put in more public money now, but that is not what is needed right now. But how is the development of NL learning going through and from the work agenda? Are you sure you can get those R&D funds out of here? 'Cause that's where it has to be, of course. And are we really going to do enough to really help people who have to go from work to work, who are losing their jobs and who are perhaps getting into welfare or into the WW, with retraining, with guidance? In my opinion, the lesson of the previous crisis was that we did not invest enough in retraining then, which meant that, when things got better and many people came out of the WW or the assistance, we had missed the opportunity to help them to retrain to sectors where deficits were growing very quickly. And I really hope we don't repeat that mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u83	Thank you. And an interruption by Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am glad that Mr Van Weyenberg himself has said that the 50 million is not enough. It cannot be explained that you are making an economic aid package for 25 billion in the area of Social Affairs and that you are doing 50 million for retraining, especially for a party like D66 who says she thinks education is so important. Can I then count on Mr Van Weyenberg's support for our amendment to increase that 50 million by at least 100 million to 150 million? That's what we're going to vote on. Is D66 going to support that proposal for extra money for education or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u85	Then let's be honest. In the previous debate, the Minister said that at the moment he had enough public funding for the 50 million. That was for now too, for the short term. After that, there's got to be more. I asked that question. I am not going to support that amendment, and do you know why not? I'd find that way too easy for all those R&D funds, because then the government's gonna blow up while the money's just sitting there in the pots. I want to take advantage of that. I did ask whether we really have enough for the guidance of people in the WW and the assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u86	Mr Smeulders, additional?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u87	Yes, Mr. Chairman, because now the monkey is coming out of the sleeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u88	I'll answer. That's nice, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u89	No, I appreciate your answer, but it is also clear that D66 will vote for education at an additional 100 million for education. And I also think that that money should come from the R&D funds. All we know is that these sectors have been invested, and it's probably gonna take a while before you get it from one sector to another. And then we're gonna go ahead and mess with the crisis. We shouldn't do that. But now your second remark: that there may also need to be extra money for guidance. That $100 million could be used for that, too. Yesterday, the UWV said there must be 500 million available for guidance. There is now a proposal to make 100 million extra available. Why don't you just support that? Why don't you make that hand-off to the opposition? We are also doing our best, we are also tabling amendments. We believe, not from political ideology but simply because we see that it is necessary, that this is now necessary. Why don't you support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u90	I think we've done the call about what needs to be done around the counseling. That's what's in the adopted chamber motion, by the way. So I'm assuming that's what the Minister's gonna do. But I really think that: there are hundreds of millions going into these R&D funds; we are finally going to spend them. And it doesn't have to go from one thing to another. I want them just to be used in those sectors that we now know may be less work, to help staff in that sector to retrain. The Minister's doing a good job on that. The Minister said in the previous debate: the 50 million, that is enough for me now. And the second it takes more, you expect the minister to report it here, and then we're gonna clear it as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u91	Mr. Chairman. The superb stairs, you might say. We have also tabled an amendment for much more money for training. Because we really believe in the call that has been made: people need to be escorted to other jobs. A delta plan has been proposed by OVO. You saw Mr. Thissen of the UWV there with an urgent plea story. Sure, there's money in these sector funds, but we can wait for that, or we can say we're taking the lead. Our plea is that this minister should take the lead. It is important that the government now becomes the driver of the economy, to ensure that people are guided to jobs of chance. I do not understand that D66 then does not support the motion of... If D66 does not want to support the motion of 50PLUS, then at least support that of GroenLinks. It's a little cheaper; I'll admit that. But at least I think there's money to go with it. Shouldn't D66 be open to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u92	I am also open to it if it is necessary, but I have heard the Minister say that he, together with the social partners, with the 50 million, has the confidence that he can do whatever is necessary. That's what I'm assuming. If it isn't, I want more money, too. I think it's a bit of a sport to do now... I'm just waiting to see if one of my colleagues in the opposition might be able to make an amendment with an even higher amount of money, just for fun. But money isn't free now. My group always makes money available for training. In fact, in the coalition agreement, we have already provided funds for personal guidance, precisely because we believe in it. I'm assuming that the minister, if he has to, will release money for guidance from the UWV. The amendment deals specifically with work-to-work paths. That is what the 50 million is for, together with the social partners' money. That is precisely what is meant as an incentive to get the money out of these sector funds. I hope, above all, that we do not talk about this for a very long time, as we have done in the past, and that we will soon find that it has not happened. It is precisely that the Minister is doing this together with the social partners that I find profitable. But the bar is high. I do not want to hear in six months that the money has not been spent, not from this minister, but also from the social partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u93	Thank you. In addition, Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u94	I do understand that D66 hears a cry of distress from the UWV and a compelling signal that money needs to be added, but that this money is not going to come. The 50 million is simply not enough. Then why is... this hasn't been said to deaf ears?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u95	The 50 million goes on, what's called the Netherlands is learning through, along with those R&D funds. I have already said to the cabinet, also in a motion with my colleague Pieter Heerma, that look at what we should do about the counselling of job seekers. I expect ambitious action on this, now and in the budget. I seem to have more confidence in this than you do, but as far as I am concerned, I have already given a clear mandate to the cabinet in this Chamber, which I believe you have supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u96	First of all, I fully agree with Mr Van Weyenberg that Mr Roemer's recommendations are excellent. I'm assuming the cabinet will take it in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u97	How surprising.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u98	But now my question. The Jetten motion is an excellent motion. Companies may apply for aid provided that they do not pay any bonus or dividend this year and next year. The cabinet is taking over the motion, for this year but not for next year. Does Mr Van Weyenberg regret that, too? Should we not insist, as a Chamber, that this should also be the case for next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u99	I was well through my speech, so I am glad that Mr Jasper van Dijk is still coming to make this point. I was hoping for him, so thank you for that. I am very pleased that the demand has now been added. I'm very happy about that. And indeed, this is also true if you pay out bonuses for 2020 in 2021. So it's a little hybrid that you take as a reference year. But with Mr Jasper van Dijk I would simply find it politically impossible, I say, if a company that has had a lot of support this year pays out bonuses next year. I read that the Minister says: if I put that in the terms of the regulation, it is not proportional. That's just how I interpreted it. I'm asking him to explain that. But even if it is not legally proportional in the scheme, I would like to make the following appeal again. As far as I'm concerned, every company is getting beaten up that, after it's got a lot of money this year for support to keep jobs, we're all gonna be supporting it with great love, and we're gonna start the bonus machine again next year. I wouldn't find that explainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u100	I think that's a very hopeful answer. Let us listen to the Minister and then see if further action is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u101	Let me turn to Mr Roemer's report. It's about the migrant workers. One of the sectors in which many migrant workers work and where there is, moreover, a major danger to the health of migrant workers is the slaughterhouses. There we see scenes that we wouldn't want to see, like people close to each other, putting people at risk. The report sets out a number of practical solutions, which I hope the cabinet will continue with. In Germany, they have taken a step further by addressing the cause. We've heard John Klein, FNV director, about that, too. One of the reasons why the situation in slaughterhouses is so bad is the high degree of flexible work. A lot of migrant workers work there temporarily. In Germany they now want to put a max on the number of flex spots in front of the abattoirs. Wouldn't that be a solution direction, a direction of thought that we could make the cabinet think about this summer with the social partners?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u102	The social partners can, of course, always agree with each other whether they want such a maximum, but the question here is, of course, whether you want to do something about it as a legislator. Last week there was a wide-ranging debate on this issue. The fact that things can't be the way they are now is something we can easily agree on. Mr Roemer's report offers a number of handles which would also help in the slaughterhouses. But to set a ceiling for a specific sector, I find it complicated, because I actually want to have a more fundamental discussion with Mr Gijs van Dijk on how to deal with it. I believe that the Borstlap Committee offers a very good starting point for this. You gotta do something about that freaked-out flex and all those triangle relationships. I am also very curious about the way in which all the proposals put forward by Mrs Palland and myself have been worked out; we have also adopted all kinds of motions as a Chamber on this point. It is also important that the recruitment of people is made more attractive again. Let us please keep in mind the balance sheet of the Borstlap Committee, because I see that the flex approach is mentioned by some more than the fact that we also have to do something to make it more possible for employers to offer people contracts for an indefinite period of time. So I find it complicated to do things very differently for a sector now, but if social partners want to do that together, I think that is an interesting path.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u103	In addition, Mr Gijs van Dijk. No? Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Öztürk, on behalf of the DENK Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u104	Mr. Chairman. Dutch people are having a hard time in this corona crisis. Entrepreneurs see their turnover decline and wonder if they're going to make it. People see their income drop and wonder if they can pay their bills at the end of the month. Unemployment is rising. The pain is felt everywhere by people who are already vulnerable: flex workers, call forces andzzp'ers. It is therefore a good thing that we are deciding today on a second aid package. It is a good thing that in crisis time we show solidarity and draw out billions to help Dutch people. It is good that the second aid package also includes training and retraining. It is a good thing that in return for aid companies are given an obligation to provide training for workers. But, Mr President, DENK continues to worry about whether the commitment has not been formulated too lightly. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. DENK is critical of the second support package, such as the partner test in the Temporary bridging scheme independent entrepreneurs, the Tozo. If your partner has an income above €1,500 you can whistle at your money. Ofzzp's with a partner who benefit from the current Tozo scheme 51% think that the benefit is already not enough to provide the livelihood. And with regard to the partner income test 82% indicates that it will not be enough to provide the living through this test. This causes pain in society. Pain of, for example, taxi drivers who have to pay their lease car, who have to pay expensive insurance premiums and who are left out of money because of these measures. Pain from many entrepreneurs in the country who need solidarity. Some 100,000 people are no longer eligible for aid under this measure. How much is poverty going to rise as a result of this measure? How many bankruptcies will there be? How much misery will entrepreneurs experience? Isn't it antisocial that we give millions, billions, of support money to multinationals, but that we take away our ownzzp'ers, who keep society and the economy running, their money? It amounts to EUR 500 million not to introduce the partner test. Can't we all wear that? DENK makes a final appeal to the government to refrain from introducing the partner test. If we set aside EUR 68 billion to boost society, to keep it running, to show solidarity, this could add half a billion more, to make sure that we do not leave these people in the cold. Mr. Chairman. The Tozo scheme is not enough for many entrepreneurs to survive. DENK receives many messages from entrepreneurs who indicate that €1,500 is insufficient to survive. I would like to ask the government whether it is not an option to make the amount of the Tozo benefit depend on the sector. Some sectors are just getting hit harder. Is it not right to examine this sector by sector and see if we can perhaps give some more to certain sectors? I am thinking, for example, of taxis, events and a number of other sectors. Should we not give special support to these sectors? That's the question. In addition, we have indicated earlier that it is not possible for student entrepreneurs to have access to the Tozo, but to be referred to DUO to borrow extra money. This can be done by anyone, by borrowing money, but it is important that we support these students, who have the courage to study and undertake and who thus contribute to society, in these difficult times. Now they're just sent to DUO: go borrow some money and if you go bankrupt, you're out of luck. This makes it difficult for our young people, and our young people are our future. Even after the crisis, we need these young people. It is precisely at this time that we must support these young people. That is why, as I say again, I am considering tabling a motion for a resolution on this matter. DENK is also critical of the partial abolition of the dismissal penalty in the NOW. Companies that receive taxpayers' money and still fire people were previously fined. For companies that fire less than 20 people, this fine will be dropped. So it becomes easier for companies that get tax money to fire people in crisis time. How many jobs is this gonna cost? Doesn't the Minister take an irresponsible risk with people's work?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u105	There is an interruption for you from Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u106	Let's talk about the self-employed. I have one more point that concerns me and I would like to ask whether Mr Öztürk is also concerned. Many self-employed people did not apply for the Tozo until later, so not from the first day, but for example one or two months later. They now see that they are not eligible for the Tozo 2 by the partner test. Does Mr Öztürk agree with me that we must do everything we can to ensure that they can put their application date back to the start of the Tozo as much as possible, so that they can at least make use of those three months of the first Tozo? Would he like to ask the cabinet with me if it wants to see if there are any obstacles to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u107	That is a good and fair question. I agree with D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u108	Then I suggest you continue with your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u109	Yes. DENK wonders why the PvdA has agreed to partially abolish the dismissal penalty. The PvdA wanted to keep the dismissal penalty .................................................................................................................................................................................................... All those who are about to lose their jobs as a result of the partial abolition of the dismissal penalty are partly thanks to the PvdA. That's right. A number of people will lose their jobs, their jobs, because of the support given by the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u110	I have the slight impression that this leads to an interruption by Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u111	I would particularly like to express my thanks for the declaration of love we receive in almost every debate by DENK. They always do that very well, so that's very nice anyway. I'm glad DENK always thinks about the Labour Party. Apparently, that's just in the genes, in the head and in the heart. But perhaps that goes too far for this debate. At this point, because in addition to the declaration of love, I also heard a somewhat critical remark about the dismissal penalty. The Labour Party attaches great importance to good cooperation with the trade union movement. The trade union movement has rightly said, together with the Labour Party and a number of other parties, that we should not take out the dismissal penalty, as the cabinet intended. Now it has been negotiated for a long time, in my view, even until the midnight hours, and finally there was a good compromise, namely that the dismissal penalty would come back in a certain form. That was the compromise, with the support of the trade union movement, which is very important to us. This led to support from the Labour Party for a package that was moved a month further and that had a safety net for flex workers, which was not included before. We saw in that package a number of positive points which the Labour Party, with the support of the trade union movement, could support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u112	Well, that was a very long interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u113	Yes, and that for a small contribution! Anyway, that's the reason I gave you. DENK makes parties think. And DENK is very keen on it, even when it comes to the Labour Party. The Labour Party says: we are a party to the labour, to the people, to the workers. At some point, they're gonna negotiate. And that's usually the crux: at the end they let it go. In the end they go for power, in the end they still go with the VVD, D66 and the drivers parties. And our role is to keep you and your party sharp, to make sure that at the end you can still give that last gas and that piece of 20 employees can still pull in. That is the piece of work that we must continue to do from the opposition to the parties that eventually succumb to power, to the governing parties. That's the PvdA and D66. Previously, the PvdA became a little used in the coalition, now D66 is used. Our role is to keep you sharp, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u114	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u115	Then I'll continue with the story. Again the question of DENK: why are the wage costs of employees with a wage of up to €9.538 per month reimbursed while we do not give money to ourzzp'ers and student entrepreneurs? There was talk of a footballer, it was said: a manager gets a ton a year, just from the government. And then we say to a student entrepreneur, "We don't have any money for you." People, it cannot be explained that we continue to pay the fat salaries, that we do not ask for a piece of solidarity, that we do not say: give a piece to the student entrepreneur. No. That is exactly the point we want to make. As far as DENK is concerned, that border goes to two modes. I'd like to hear a response from the cabinet. It is also unacceptable for DENK that companies that receive support should simply pay dividends, shares and bonuses over 2019 and that only bonuses over 2020 should be banned for the board and management, and not for the low below. Paying money to people while being held up with taxpayers' money is unacceptable to DENK. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a number of short questions. Is the Cabinet prepared to use additional resources or arrangements to support entrepreneurs in these difficult times? We have already given some examples. Furthermore, there are currently long queues for applications for certain schemes. What is the Cabinet going to do to help these waiting people faster? You can come up with an arrangement, you can advance billions, but if people can't bring that in, it's also very difficult. And when they experience stress, it is also very difficult for these entrepreneurs and people. My final question concerns a possible third aid package.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u116	Before that last question comes, there is another interruption by Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u117	I would like to ask Mr Öztürk if he could perhaps clarify that last question. For example, I saw a support package for the NOW opened on Monday, and on Thursday my inbox exploded with messages from entrepreneurs saying: what happens now; within three days I get money. If there are any bottlenecks, I'd like to hear it. But I think our performance has shown itself on her best side. So it might be good to mention that also for the balance sheet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u118	You're right. There were a lot of people who were happy. But there were also a lot of citizens who e-mailed us that they were affected. That's what I'm bringing in now. But there were also arrangements where things went a little better. I'll give you that, too. My final point is: what happens after 1 October? A lot of people are wondering that. What's gonna happen next year? I hear we're gonna sing it out with the current cabinet. We keep the economy running, we give left and right some billions. But people are going to suffer a lot after the election. It is precisely the challenge for the political parties to indicate what happens after the elections before the elections. When we hear from experts that we will have hundreds of thousands of unemployed after the elections, that the pain will come after the elections, I challenge all parties to declare before the elections how they will deal with that pain. That is why I ask the Minister: is there going to be a third aid package? If so, when? And if not, why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u119	Thank you. Then we will be at the end of the first period in terms of input. I shall suspend the sitting until 12.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u120	We arrived at the answer of the questions, comments and so on in the first period. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to all Members of Parliament for the questions asked. Indeed, as a cabinet, we recently announced the second part of the corona crisis emergency package. This second phase, too, aims to maintain employment. That is why we extended the emergency package for four months until 1 October of this year. At the same time, economic expectations for the longer term have also become increasingly bleak, considering the predictions of the CPB and De Nederlandsche Bank, but also of international organisations such as the OECD and the IMF. We are now in a recession, which could take longer. Even if the economy can be opened up again, it will not be the same as before the period of corona. We have also entered a new phase, in which it is simply no longer realistic that we should be able to prevent a growing number of redundancies and bankruptcies by means of bridging measures. I have already said that companies will fall down and people will lose their jobs. It is therefore also a phase that will greatly benefit from the adaptability of companies, but also of workers in the Dutch economy. The emergency package is aimed at providing support and also at providing time to enable and shape that adaptation in a social way. On a number of points, we have also changed the emergency package; I will come back to that in a moment. For your order, Mr President, I shall deal with the following in turn. I will start with a preview: what will happen in the coming period? Then I will go into the questions that have been asked about the NOW. Then I will go into the questions that have been asked about the TOFA, the flex regime. Then there will be a block specifically about education, services and support. Then a block of "other." Finally, I would like to comment on the amendments that have already been tabled and which I can already give an opinion on. The Secretary of State is about to address the Tozo and the questions that have been asked about child care. So I'm actually starting with a preview. Members of various parties.................................................................................................................................................... That is complicated, I say honestly, because the uncertainty is still very large. Since 16 March, when, for example, the catering industry closed down, we have been restricted to our economy for three months now. It seems a lot longer, but it's only been three months at the core. Many figures are simply not yet available. We now have the April figures and a first assessment of May. But a lot more recent data is just not there. In August, as a cabinet, we make the budget for the following year. Then the CBS figures for the second quarter are also available. The Central Planning Bureau will then calculate the economic expectations for this year and next year. In the meantime, we do a few things. Firstly, of course, we have extended the emergency package until 1 October, precisely in order to have the time to think with each other about what is needed for the period after 1 October, with the social partners, with employers, but also within the cabinet. That has everything to do with: what is the status of the virus? What has been the state of the opening up of sectors in the economy and what has been the real economic development? Again, there's just a lot of uncertainty right now. In the four scenarios published by the Central Planning Bureau a week or two ago, there is even a scenario that we'll be back above Jan next year, but also a scenario that goes to -10% economic growth and 10% unemployment. So there are already very large differences and a lot of uncertainty. I therefore fully understand the desire for greater clarity. I would also very much like to give it to those entrepreneurs in the country who are wondering: where are we, what can we count on? But as a cabinet, we are also just working on each other, also within the troika, with Minister Hoekstra, Minister Wiebes and the Secretary of State Vijlbrief, Keijzer and Van Ark, to shape that emergency package and to think about its follow-up. So I am not going to speculate about that in detail; I can say that it is simply very uncertain and that we, as a cabinet, keep our finger on the pulse of what is needed from 1 October to support the economy and employment. I can say to Mr Van Dijk that I recognize a great many of the questions he is asking and recognize the issues he is referring to and, more importantly, have also been included in the letter I sent to your Chamber on the work agenda. I have agreed with the social partners, with the trade unions and with the employers that we are going to think about work-to-work, training and part-time arrangements. Part-time arrangements, that's what the letter says, because we don't yet know exactly how to shape them. All these elements are part of the discussions with social partners that we are going to have over the next few weeks and months in order to give direction and shape to them. This is also included in the letter I sent to your Chamber, the agreements made on the exploration of the Borstlap Committee and the WRR report before the crisis, earlier this year. It feels like a long time ago to me, but it's only been a few months. That exploration and that report are, of course, also included in those talks, because it is true that several speakers today have said that it is also really about the vulnerabilities that we already had, which were already visible before this corona crisis, in our labour market and in our socio-economic infrastructure. So we're working hard on that between Finance, EZK and SZW, to think about that. More concrete, of course, this becomes clear at Prince's Day. Mr Smeulders also asked: can the cabinet take us earlier? Yeah, of course we're gonna try. Then we must also look in time, because you will soon be recessing as a Chamber, and when you come back from recess, we are actually already in the middle of drawing up the Princess Day proposals. But it seems to me that it is a good idea to think about this with the Chamber and to debate exactly how it is designed. It is therefore also important for your Chamber to be given the proposals in good time, so that we can debate the substance of the matter. It's complicated with Prince's Day. So we really need to find a way to get your room involved, but I'll come back to that later. The last point on this point is perhaps a bit strange from me, but I would also like to give some rest to my officials over the coming months, but not only to my officials, also to the people of the UWV and to the municipalities. Because they have worked very hard over the past few months and are also ready for a holiday. People are walking on their gums, they've rigged emergency packs and taped patches. I think that we should also give them a month to calm down and recover. For a lot of people it has been a very impactful situation, even with children at home, working at home and still putting up these kinds of emergency packages. I think that's quite an achievement. That's what I want to say. This is indeed true not only for the state officials, but also for the employees of the UWV, the SVB, the municipalities and the people in the childcare organisations. All this is without prejudice to our efforts, together with the social partners, to clarify this well before 1 October, so that employees and entrepreneurs also know where they stand. The last question at this point...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u122	Shall we do that last question before the interruption comes from Mr Smeulders? Mr Smeulders nods.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u123	Yes, please. Mr Smeulders, as well as Mrs Palland, asked: how is part-time work going? We also included part-time arrangements in that letter because, for example, the technical sectors, the industrial sectors, say: give us a structural part-time WW. We are looking again and working out what can actually, also technically, be done. What can also be done within the systems of the UWV? So how are we supposed to shape that? And is that in line with the economic situation in these sectors? In fact, Mrs Tielen said that I believe that some sectors are falling short of demand later than others. So that's what we're doing. That's what we're exploring, along with the UWV, of course, to map this out. After the recess, we can clarify how we're going to shape it technically and at what time. I hope that this can be done as soon as possible, but there are still hooks and eyes to it, also in terms of implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u124	Thank you. This was the block of preview, I suppose. Mr Smeulders is interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u125	Thank you to the Minister for replying. My question concerns the point towards the date of 1 October. I understand Prince's Day is in the middle of this. That makes it a bit weird and difficult, but on the other hand, the Chamber has the right and should also have the opportunity to talk about the new aid package before it enters into force. Suppose the majority of the Chamber then says: the cabinet proposes this arrangement, but we want it to be adjusted. Then we must be able to do so before the scheme becomes operational. Does the Minister agree with us that it should be possible to do so and that we should also have the documents in time so that we can have a debate on them and possibly propose adjustments?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u126	I understand that and I agree with Mr Smeulders. In consultation with my colleagues, I would like to give some thought to how we can shape this. Prinsjesdag is of course about next year, about 2021, while this is actually about the situation from 1 October. So I understand Mr Smeulders well, but this is one thing. I would like to think a little bit more about this, in consultation with my fellow Members, how we are going to shape this. I will come back to it at a later date, but I understand the point very well. In fact, in some parts, if we are going to shape the implementation in a different way, we will have to send out a notice sooner in order to enable the UWV to do so on 1 October. That's true now. Take the NOW 2.0. The scheme was published this week, but the first application is only on 6 July. Otherwise it just won't work in time. So there is a good chance that we will have to come out with this sooner in order to allow it to land properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u127	In addition, Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u128	I understand that and I understand that the Minister says that there can be no waiting until 1 October anyway because some things may have to be done much sooner. In addition to that, the Chamber is about to recess. I would be very grateful if the Minister could send a letter to the Chamber by the end of next week at the latest, also in connection with discussions with his colleagues, on how he sees the timetable. Then the Chamber can see if it is possible to talk about this in the recess. Or can we wait until the first week of recess and be on time? We should not get the feeling after the holiday: oh, if we had known, we would have been a little sharper.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u129	I would like to discuss this with my colleagues. I will then inform the Chamber about it, but it is a valid point. We are, by the way, dependent on the figures of the Central Planning Bureau, but they only arrive in mid-August. They provide a better understanding of, in particular, the second quarter and the current state of the economy. So much sooner, I say to Mr Smeulders, but I will come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u130	It's about the work agenda. There's a lot in there. I hear from the Minister that anything that is important and helps people and businesses can actually be on the table. What I keep hearing coming back is the extension of the WW. I'd like to do a double check. Is that not technically possible or is there a political blockade?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u131	There is no political blockade, but it is technically impossible. In fact, I think it would be a much easier political solution, looking at all the discussions. Take Mr Gijs van Dijk's motion and the discussion on TOFA. That's when this variant was on the table. That is perhaps the easiest effect of Mr Van Dijk's motion, but it is simply not technically possible. But there is absolutely no political blockade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u132	That's good to know, because then we can get it out of the debate. I've been asked to check that out all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u133	That's what I did. That is why I have also engaged in consultations between the social partners and the UWV to sort out the problem as it were. It's just in complicated systems. A lot of WW requests are coming in now, apart from the regular process. All the engagements have already been withdrawn, so that people get their benefits in time. If, on top of that, there are still very complicated, manual actions to be carried out, it will not succeed in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u134	Thank you. Still finishing up?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u135	Yeah, one more point on this. In particular, it concerns either young people who have just worked and who have just reached three months, or flex workers who are now provided for three months via the TOFA. This means that there is enormous pressure on the assistance of a lot of young flex workers. I would like to call on the Minister and the Cabinet to have this group on the table full of the work agenda. Because this is a vulnerable group which is in any case subject to all kinds of flex arrangements and which is now also directly affected by the assistance, which, of course, they thought would never end up there at this age.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u136	Yes. We'll talk about that. There are signs from the municipalities that the call for assistance is increasing in any case, but the Secretary of State knows more about this. By the way, the image is a bit more mellow and layered. A very large proportion of the group that has been affected by the corona crisis in the first few months are particularly young people with a flex contract, but in between there are also a lot of students and students who have now returned to work in other sectors. We have seen a major shift towards the agricultural sector, for example. The fact that part of the catering industry has been reopened since 1 June also provides employment, especially for the call forces and flex forces temporarily excluded, despite the fact that the NOW scheme guaranteed the payment. That is why it is particularly important to keep your finger on the pulse and to see exactly what is happening in those sectors with the vulnerable group of people. But I very much agree with Mr Gijs van Dijk's point of principle. We need to keep a close eye on that in order to follow exactly what is happening there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u137	Thank you. Now let's move on to the block NOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u138	That's a very big block, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u139	Then I call it a block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u140	Yeah, it's a block. I'm gonna try to do it as staccato as possible, even in view of time. You had a reservation until 1:30. There's no way you're gonna make it, Mr. Chairman. The NOW 1.0. Meanwhile, 138,500 companies have received subsidies. According to an estimate, these are about 2.5 million employees. An advance of EUR 6.2 billion was granted until 12 June. A very large proportion goes to very small companies, as Mrs Tielen said. More than 90% of companies are small SMEs. In total, once the second and third instalment payments have been made, we now expect EUR 9.8 billion in grants to be granted in the first months of March, April and May. The weighted average expected turnover loss is, according to the employer's report, "the application', not the statement of accounts', which is 67%. That's a hell of a lot. This can be seen in particular in the hospitality, retail and business services, for example. Those are the sectors that have hit the hardest. They have been closed and have therefore had no turnover for a long period of time. Of the companies that have received subsidies, 67% have fewer than 10 employees, 27% have 10 to 50 employees and 6% have at least 50 employees. As you can see, SMEs are heavily represented in this. Most companies are in the retail, catering, catering and other commercial services sectors, with an average of 25,000 companies per sector. The NOW 2 is the successor to the NOW 1. It was extended by four months for the period June, July, August and September, i.e. until 1 October. The aim is still to maintain employment, but we have also reached a stage where it is no longer realistic that redundancies can be prevented. That's why we adjusted the NOW compared to the first tranche. Firstly, it is important for employers and employees to make efforts to adapt to the new realities. That is why, as a cabinet, we have made EUR 50 million available for the NL programme. I'll come back to the question about education later. Secondly, we think it is important for companies to be able to adapt to economic realities and also to adapt. The existing system that the subsidy is cut with the wage bill plus an additional 50% reduction, which is popularly called the 'dismissal fine', means that in particular many SMEs, of which I have just said how many, said: we will not apply for the NOW anymore, but then we will apply for bankruptcy. In that case, the objective of maintaining employment is further out of sight. At the same time, I had a great deal of feeling at the point Mr Gijs van Dijk made, namely that you want the larger companies to have proper consultation with the trade unions so that decent social plans can be made to help people into a new job in a social way. We have reached a compromise on this with the trade union movement. I'm very happy about that. Once again, if companies do not consult with the trade union movement or apply for mediation, they still run the risk of a fine, at a 5% discount on the NOW grant, which also remains in the second tranche. Thirdly, companies applying for a high NOW grant should not pay any bonuses or dividends. This condition already applied to the group applications, but it is now also generic for all NOW applications. I will come back to Mr Jasper van Dijk's questions in a moment. Mrs Palland, as well as Mrs Van Brenn, asked whether a solution had been found to the bottlenecks. Not for all the bottlenecks, but for a lot of things. I also mentioned this in the letter NOW 1.3, in which a number of specific cases that were more frequent have been resolved, for example the seasonal arrangements. The possibility of using not the January wage bill but the March wage bill for the determination also allows companies with a seasonal pattern to make use of it. Solutions have also been found for companies that had been taken over and were given a different payroll tax number. That was a point made by Mr Van Haga. That's what's in the letter called 1.3. So some of those bottlenecks have been solved and actively picked up by the UWV. These are, by the way, legitimate questions, which also live wider. That is why I am giving a slightly more detailed, specific answer. The salary is also cleared for the thirteenth month. That was also a discussion: in January the thirteenth month would be paid out. That's one. Employers with a foreign account number may also apply. There was a lot of reaction to that too. Seasonal companies have thus been helped with an alternative wage allocation to March. Companies that have taken over another company can calculate their turnover in a different way. In addition, we have added the group, working company scheme. That was a motion from Mrs Palland. The scheme has been adapted and extended to these types of components. A tailor-made solution for bottlenecks has also been found. By the way, I can't offer every individual company tailor-made. It's almost 140,000 companies. It's an automated process. If all this has to be customized, then the whole process gets stuck and the UWV just can't do it anymore. So I've had to choose what's feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u141	Let me take a look at Mr Van Haga. He's got an interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u142	It is very good that solutions are found in so many different areas. Only, which surprises me a little, is that every solution causes a new problem again, because the solutions are often very specific. Suppose you have a one-man business, you make that an e.g. and you do that on 15 March, then the new solution is that not January but March. But since you got your new payroll tax number on March 15th, you're moving to April 1st and you're still falling apart. Why is it not possible to create some kind of generic solution? Suppose you're in the danger zone because you did a conversion. We're linking the old payroll tax number to the new payroll tax number. Then it just gets watched and then you're done. That's a slightly softer, more comprehensive solution than when you just take a new date, because then you'll have new people falling between shore and ship.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u143	Mr Van Haga is now pretending that this can take place. Unfortunately, that is not the reality. If 138,000 companies make use of this scheme for a total of EUR 10 billion in a very short period of time through an automatic system, then it is impossible for the UWV to address this type of specific solution in addition to all the technical questions rightly asked by entrepreneurs. However, the UWV has done the following and I commend them for that. We have a standard objection procedure. So companies can object to the UWV's decision, against a negative decision actually. The UWV then, as we have seen in the past few months, goes on the basis of the arrangement to see what is in the mind of the arrangement. They've done that a number of times. Some of those signals have also come back to my desk. That is why I have amended the regulation on a number of points. But I also want to be very clear: we can't really deliver customization. We're not gonna deliver that either, and I'm not gonna promise your room that either, because I and the UWV can't live up to that. So there will always be companies falling apart, no matter how sorry I am. Unfortunately, in the short term, that is the reality that we are now in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u144	In addition, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u145	Of course, I very much appreciate the fact that 138 000 companies are being served and that many billions are being paid out, but this is without prejudice to the fact that a solution is being sought and found which is so specific and clumsy that a few companies are still falling apart. Customization is provided. I dispute that the Minister says that there is no possibility of tailor-made work, because you do custom-made work. Only, you do a little bureaucratic and bureaucratic customization. It would be so nice if those old payroll tax numbers would be linked to those new payroll tax numbers, so that you've lost that problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u146	Now Mr Van Haga is making it a caricature. If the UWV gets an objection, it will see exactly what is going on and there are also data available, they will tell me: we see a solution here, but then the Minister will have to settle it neatly in the scheme, otherwise there is no legal basis and we cannot legally distribute it. I picked up those signals and sent them to your Chamber in the letter 1.3, with a number of solutions that were common. But there must be such a legal basis, otherwise money will be paid out illegally, and that cannot, of course, be the intention. Next year I will get a tap from your Chamber as a result of a report by the General Court of Auditors. So it all has to be neatly arranged. Two. The UWV is working very hard to arrange the service and to come up with a solution for the obvious cases that fall between shore and ship. However, it is always the case that there are new cases where the scheme cannot be adapted or where, for example, there is legal inequality when you adjust the scheme. I can't take that for my hood. Unfortunately, therefore, I have to observe from time to time that such a solution is not possible and, unfortunately, I have to draw a line from time to time. Some companies which started their business on 1 March have very nasty situations, but then there are no data. Then there is no wage sum data before 1 March and there is no basis for a turnover determination, so the NOW cannot be used. That's very annoying, but I can't make it any easier, and I can't fix it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u147	A brief supplementary question from Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u148	But I am talking here about companies that have not changed de facto, but have only been converted on 15 March, for example. I appreciate all the actions of the UWV, because they are incredibly nice and everything is done. But the call that the entrepreneurs in question always got was: sorry, we took a good look at it, but it can't be, because it's March 15th. If you cannot do that, I will have to make a motion, but I would ask you to look at it generously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u149	It's been looked at very generously. We've been trying to come up with solutions. I just can't live up to any more commitments, so I'm not going to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u150	I suggest you continue with the answer. Oh, I see another interruption by Mrs Tielen. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u151	I see the Minister taking new A4s. I asked a question, but I'm just gonna ask it again. I found that third letter, to which the Minister has already referred twice, a very nice letter, precisely because it contained a passage that gave a lot of entrepreneurial perspective. The question is: to what extent did this actually happen? How many objections have been reviewed? How many of these have still received an allocation, because it appears that the wage declaration numbers or the legal forms clearly correspond to the purpose of the NOW? And how many rejections are there and why? Can the Minister say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u152	Yeah, I do have it right here. That was already ready for the answer. Unfortunately, I cannot give a precise insight into which companies have benefited from what changes. I can, however, specifically state that companies that have previously received a rejection in January and because of a 0-wage payment are not paid in January and because of their turnover in January or November are charged by the UWV. They are explicitly informed that the scheme has been modified in this respect. They will receive a letter stating: beware, the scheme has been amended; you can now make another application again and perhaps you will be eligible for it now. This applies in particular to the seasonal companies which, for example, did not employ people in January, but in March. They're written on. For that group, the application period for the first NOW has been extended to allow them to make an application. That would close first. But we don't know exactly how many of those are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u153	I'm always off the numbers. Anyway, I understand the process. But I would very much like to know if there is a solution. That is true for those seasonal companies. Indeed, I am once again getting signals from seasonal companies which had a sales peak just last year in June and July, which now seems to have too little turnover loss and therefore are not eligible. I would like to get a little more sense from the Minister of what actually has an effect; if that is not possible now, then perhaps it can be done separately, in a written response. Because only if they are effective should we, in my opinion, make complex solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u154	Then I would also like to hear more specifically from Mrs Tielen exactly what the problem is. We've analyzed all the signals that have occurred frequently. We checked to see if we could change the arrangement. Then there are still companies that, for example, are really very specific. I have mentioned the Keukenhof, which makes the whole turnover in a few weeks in the year. We're not gonna save that company with the NOW. I don't think that's gonna work because that company is so specific and because the turnover is being made in April and May, I think. You're not gonna make it with the NOW either. Because the NOW 2 has come, of course we have a period of seven months. So the turnover comparison is also based on seven months. This means that large variations between seasons and seasons are automatically filtered out. I think that also helps to prevent these weird peaks, for example in seasonal companies. If there's a specific thing, I'd like to take a look at it. But there will always be companies falling between shore and ship.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u155	The minister is acting like I'm looking for trouble, but I'm looking for solutions. Once again, I thought that the solution direction indicated by the Minister was a good one. In March and April I had a daily conversation with many, many entrepreneurs about their hassle and their bureaucratic obstacles at the NOW. Things have changed; I just want to see to what extent it is now resolved. Yeah, I'm getting fewer calls right now. That can have two reasons: either it has been resolved, or I would like to see it again, and then I am happy to see it, or they have chosen eggs for their money and say, 'then not; then I will apply for bankruptcy'. I just want to know more, because only the signals I get, however real they are, of course do not give an idea of how things are going in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u156	All we can achieve is how many companies have finally applied and how many companies have not received a decision. An answer to the question of what the reasons are would require a separate investigation, because we do not have those data. But again, the possibility of objection is open. At the UWV I will ask again what objections come in and what are the most common examples. I'd like to share that with you. But I have also received much less signals in the last few weeks. In fact, I have also seen a lot of companies that have received a solution through the LinkedIn and Facebook posts that I occasionally watch. But again, if there are any signals, I'd like to take a look at that. I'm gonna check with the UWV again and get me informed. But I don't see these signals right now, at least not as a specific category or something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u157	I suggest you continue with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u158	Mrs Palland had a question about the NOB, the Dutch Order of Tax Advisors. This question was mainly about companies that produce in the Netherlands, but elsewhere for example have their sales department or their head office, outside the Netherlands. This signal is unknown to us, to be honest, so we do not recognize it. Companies whose costs and turnover are in staff are also entitled to the NOW. Think of temporary agency companies, for example. I believe there are 1,400 temporary agency companies that have used the NOW. Work companies with a production facility in the Netherlands, which therefore have a pay-as-you-go tax in the Netherlands, can also claim this, provided that they have a turnover loss of 20%. So I don't recognize the signal. If you want to go through with it, we can look at it again, but we don't recognize it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u159	I thank the Minister for the hand-out. I know they also sent a letter, but it ended up with your colleague from the Treasury. I also asked if there have been any rejections of the UWV at this point. They indicate that in some cases the application is not submitted either, as this is not recommended in advance. Well, I'd like to offer you some practical cases. It may not be as big or as problematic as we think, but at least I thank you for your willingness to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u160	Yes. I'm highly recommended for these signals. Mr Van Weyenberg asked about payroll and temporary workers. This is in fact subject to the same conditions as for other employers. A broadcasting or payroll company can also make arrangements with the user about the completion of a contract. That's what the discussion was about a lot. The contract holder passed the payment, therefore had no turnover loss and was therefore not eligible for the NOW. But it is necessary that agreements are made with the payroll employer, otherwise you will not be eligible for this. More generally, the Borstlap Committee is also critical of the payrolling phenomenon. We've talked about this before with your room. With the Labour Market Act in balance, we have taken the first steps to align working conditions. After the summer there will be a cabinet response to Borstlap. I shall go into this further. Mr Mulder, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Öztürk asked questions about the dismissal penalty. I think this debate has already been held twice in this house. We also exchanged the argument why we, as a cabinet, chose to do so and finally made a compromise with the trade union movement. On the one hand, it was a question of tempting as many companies as possible to use the NOW and thus to maintain employment. On the other hand, it was a question of providing an opportunity to adapt to the new reality. Think of companies in the travel sector, which simply have less turnover and want to adapt to it. I understand. If you don't do that in time, you run the risk that the whole company will go bankrupt and all the people will lose their jobs. On the other hand, and that is what Mr Gijs van Dijk was talking about, there is a fear that these schemes will be abused, for example through collective redundancies. That is why an agreement has been made with the trade union movement on the 5%. The economic consequences for the coming period are, of course, unclear. There are signs that companies are thinking about adapting to the new reality, as they expect less turnover. It was also in the newspaper this week; I don't remember which newspaper, but I did read it. Those signals, of course, reach me too. But I do hope that a lot of companies will sign up to the NOW 2.0 with the aim of maintaining employment. But some adaptability is also necessary to prevent companies from going bankrupt unnecessarily, because that is also the reality. That is why we have opted for this adjustment. Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Öztürk asked about the ban on bonuses; actually the Jetten motion. The motion is for 2020 and 2021. The cabinet carried out the motion by prohibiting the payment of bonuses and dividends over the period 2020 to the shareholders' meeting of 2021. Why is that? Distributive payments by 2020 generally take place in 2021. In the opinion of the cabinet, the Jetten motion has been carefully implemented. Moreover, the subsidy so far, NOW 1 and 2, covers the year 2020, which is also legally linked to it. This makes it proportionate and also verifiable, as it returns to the annual accounts which, especially in the case of larger companies, are again subject to an audit. The settlement was more of an administrative point, which also plays a part. But if you had to wait for that, you would have to wait until the shareholders' meeting of 2022 and thus until the summer of 2022, and that will also cause problems for companies, especially SMEs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u161	I have an interruption for you from Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u162	2021 is the time when the decision on those bonuses is taken. Does the Minister agree with me that, as far as I am concerned, it would be very difficult to explain why companies that receive aid for six months and later, perhaps even longer, would be able to pay out bonuses in the near future, for example in 2021? So will the Minister repeat my appeal that if things get better in the near future we all hope not to fall back into this again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u163	I understand and share Mr Van Weyenberg's feeling. I agree with him. What I'm a little careful about is now just saying something and not thinking about the consequences for next year. For if things suddenly go very well and if the workers take very good advantage and get a high wage increase, then it falls into a different color bath than what Mr Van Weyenberg is afraid of, namely business as usual in the sense of: we are going to pay bonuses again. We don't want any of that. I agree with Mr Van Weyenberg, but the law and the regulation relate to the application under NOW 2.0.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u164	But the motion concerns 2020 and 2021. Does the Minister recognise this and should he not also see if there are more possibilities for carrying out this Chamber-wide appeal next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u165	The cabinet believes that we have carried out this appeal, both on the NOW side and by Secretary of State Vijlbrief on the fiscal side, within the possibilities available in the implementation but also within the legal possibilities. After all, it must be proportional; it must have some connection to each other. The NOW and the NOW 2.0 both cover the year 2020. So we linked that to the 2021 shareholders' meeting, because that is what it is about in terms of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u166	Thank you. I suggest that the Minister continue with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u167	Mrs Palland also had a question about the coincidence of the NOW with the TVL, the Meeting of Fixed Charges. It's always complicated, because TVL is under the Ministry of Economic Affairs. That is why I am not addressing Mr Van Haga's question on the SBI codes today, because they really belong to Mrs Keijzer and Mr Wiebes, and I think there is a separate legislative consultation on the Economic Affairs package. I am looking at the chairman now, but I would expect that, to be honest. This is about the supplementary budget 3 of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. But the NOW and the TVL could have a coincidence, that's right. We chose because, for example, the NOW is also available to institutions that have a subsidy relationship, for example in education, culture, care, where there are other sources of income, from which, for example, some of the wages are paid. If you didn't bring it, you'd be giving some kind of double subsidy, and that can't be the intention of course. That is why this is being corrected. This also means that all kinds of other forms of income, such as a TVL or a first package of TOGS, also count as revenue. And why is that? Accountants can't distinguish where the money comes from, what it's meant for; is it just turnover or is it something else? If you did, it would actually be out of control. Moreover, we have taken account of this coincidence by increasing the amount to €50,000 as a maximum amount in the deal we made with trade unions on the dismissal penalty and employers on the TVL, and by making the agreement that it is recognised that there is a coincidence. So that's how we named it. But he is there, and that is, unfortunately, inevitable, otherwise it is not feasible and not verifiable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u168	That leads to an interruption by Mrs Palland.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u169	Yeah, one more question. That principle is well known to me, and it is quite rightly so. The first package involved various subsidised institutions: how to calculate turnover; subsidies included. But now it could also reduce the effectiveness of the measures. And then I'm not referring to the NOW, but rather the other way around: the TVL scheme. That NOW is quite considerable, in terms of personnel costs, if you include it. Then you want to deal with companies in crisis time. You have an arrangement for that. But since you keep your staff in service, you can't claim compensation for your fixed expenses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u170	The latter is not true. The Meeting Fixed Charges is based on your turnover drop. There's that sales drop 30%, with the NOW that's 20%. Only, that TVL you then apply for, which then comes in as money, then measures for the NOW as revenue. That's all it is. But you can just apply for it, and that is of course more relevant for companies that have more capital costs and, for example, less personnel costs. That's where the coincidence could take place. The TVL may, in a manner of speaking, be larger than the NOW grant. But the only reason you can apply for him is so your turnover drop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u171	In addition, Mrs. Palland?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u172	Well, I'm hearing this. And as the Minister points out, there is also a debate on the TVL scheme itself at Economic Affairs. That is where we have to look again to see whether that threshold of 30% is proportionate, as I hear from entrepreneurs too, if you include this in the calculation. Anyway, we'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u173	I don't know if the Ministry of Economic Affairs has already published the settlement. They were working hard on it, I know, but there's that 30% in there. A slightly longer response to the risks of abuse, fraud, improper use. That is a very important issue. Of course, we have rigged the NOW 1 control at all speed, but also the NOW 2 has of course been created in a short time. And that implies that things may have been overlooked, and that the arrangement may have unforeseen consequences. As Mr Van Haga pointed out, some coincidences were not visible at once either, which we later had to correct. But it is also not without the risk of abuse or misuse. Of course, we have already indicated this when we announced the 1.0 package, and we have also called on companies to handle this properly, whether it is aboutzzp'ers or people who, for example, apply for the NOW. But there are a few safety valves built in, which have to reduce that risk. I'll read them for you. Firstly, the employer is, of course, responsible for the accuracy of all the information he provides. There must be a verifiable administration so that it can also be verified that the grant has been properly provided. Such ex post verification shall be carried out by means of an audit or an audit report. The UWV bases the data on the wage bill on the policy administration. The policy administration contains all the data on the wages of all employees employed by the company, which are normally also covered by contributions and payroll taxes. Those data can be used to carry out the control, for example by the UWV and the Tax Administration. The IRS controls the payroll reporting chain. If signs of fraud emerge, the UWV may therefore decide to refuse an advance payment, withdraw a payment or not make a third payment. Finally, when relevant, the UWV will forward fraud notifications to the Inspection SZW. It may also be reported to the Public Prosecutor's Office if there is a reasonable suspicion of a criminal offence during or at the time of the determination of the subsidy. The Inspection SZW also goes for signals, for example on social media or from phone calls that come to us, such as: "Something strange is happening here with the NOW." Then she can act on it. We're talking to the accountants and have asked them to agree some sort of audit protocol for how they're gonna check this out. Afterwards, of course, a statement is issued that, for example, the turnover data are realistic and in line with what the employer has indicated when applying for the subsidy. All in all, we are trying to prevent fraud and misuse via different lines. The organisations also cooperate with each other when these signals are there. And those signals are there. That's what you've seen in the newspapers over the past week. There are signals and then they act along these lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u174	An interruption by Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u175	I would like to thank the Minister for his concern about this, because I think this is an important subject. Those accountants also gave the signal that the turnover can be billed a little later. Is it also one of their tasks to go into more detail?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u176	In fact, it is about the turnover period, so: when is that turnover recorded? By the way, I was just saying to Mrs Tielen that if the company takes NOW 1 and NOW 2 together, then it's in seven months' time. Then it is also more difficult to divide the turnover over those five months that are left. But indeed, the auditors do check whether that turnover is an adequate representation of the actual turnover. Then I'm at the TOFA block, so the flex arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u177	I have another interruption for you from Mrs. Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u178	This audit will, of course, be extremely important when it comes to the accounts. I was wondering if this is a very practical question - whether the companies that do use NOW 1 and not NOW 2 should just pay off from December. What does that look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u179	I honestly don't know. I'm gonna have to check it out for the second term. I think that's... no, I don't know. I'm not gonna speculate. I'll come back to that later. Last Monday, thanks to a motion by Mr Gijs van Dijk and a very broad signature in this Chamber, the TOFA office, the temporary emergency arrangements for flex workers, opened. As Mr Van Weyenberg said, I also had abdominal pain. Eventually it went neat, because the UWV worked all weekend to solve the latest technical points, so that the window could open Monday and people could make an application. That's what's happening now, in large numbers. So, people at home: the window is open. The TOFA team of the UWV deserves great compliments for the speed with which it has been rigged and executed. Very handsome. As I said before, TOFA is a very special arrangement. Together with the UWV we have searched a lot for possibilities to come up with something. Also with the municipalities by the way. You could see that in the letter about those six variants we worked out, to see what might be possible. So the only arrangement that could be made in the short term was such a TOFA. That's why it's made very simple, just like the NOW, by the way. As simple as possible, to keep it executable. If you earned at least €400 in February and earned at least 50% less in April than in February, you will be eligible for the TOFA. The UWV looks into its own systems in order to be able to control that. That's the pay-as-you-go chain again. Incomes that are not included there, for example abroad or if a person as azzp'er is not in the payroll declaration chain, do not count. As I also indicated in the letter I sent to the Chamber, it means that people will also get it who are not actually entitled to it. Here, too, there is a risk of misuse and fraud. However, we and your Chamber felt it was very important that this arrangement should be made in order to meet this group. The risk of improper use is present, but fortunately there is understanding in your Chamber. This was also evident from the Asscher/Van Weyenberg motion asking for this to be carried out. The arrangement is now in progress. Mr Gijs van Dijk asked if I could adapt the TOFA to include platform workers. As he knows, I am also concerned about the position of platform workers. I had a debate on this last week with you in the context of thezzp debate. I also understand his plea, but this is not possible within the contours of the TOFA. They are people who are not in the payroll declaration chain and are not registered with the UWV. They're self-employed. So they can't be included because we simply don't have that data. Mr Smeulders and Mrs Van Brenn asked why TOFA only applies for three months and whether I am prepared to extend it. The answer is no. The TOFA complements the existing social security system. It is a new regime that has been set aside due to the particular economic circumstances. The duration of the TOFA is in line with this. The minimum duration of WW is three months. It would also be unfair to give someone with TOFA a longer benefit than someone who applied for WW. I couldn't explain it. Moreover, a longer opening of TOFA increases the risk of fraud and misuse. So I wouldn't be in favour of that. So I'm not going to extend the duration of the scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u180	I have an interruption for you from Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u181	First of all, I would like to congratulate the UWV for having succeeded in setting up this scheme. That's very handsome. But what I truly find very amazing is that we have now built a whole new system to pay out something from months ago three months ago. So the moment that that scheme is opened up, you're actually not entitled to it anymore. I find that very wonderful. I understand what the Minister is saying when compared to, for example, the WW. But could the minister respond to the comparison with the Tozo? In fact, we have extended the scheme for self-employed workers. We also wholeheartedly support the extension. Why do self-employed people, without having contributed, get government money and high remuneration and flex workers do not? I can't explain that to anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u182	With all due respect, Mr Smeulders is now turning the argument around. Mr Van Dijk's question was as follows. There are people who are at risk of falling between shore and ship and who are not eligible for WW or assistance, the normal social security. We have then mapped out what group it is and how many rights it has built up. This showed, in my mind, that two thirds of people are entitled to WW and that a third of them are at risk of falling between shore and ship. We have set up a separate scheme for this, which offers these people, especially students but also people who have just started out in the labour market, this additional benefit, in addition to regular social security. We really had to do our best to create something like that. It had to be a simple arrangement to keep it feasible and also to be able to get to the people on time, because it would be no use to people if they had to wait six months for it. So it came on top of the package we already had. We are implementing that now. Then it is said that it is amazing that it is not being renewed, just like the other part of the package. No, it was precisely a solution for the group that threatened to fall between shore and ship, for example those who are not entitled to a normal WW benefit because they do not have sufficient employment history. The WW benefit is at least three months. If we extended this, this would recover. That is a very different reasoning from the NOW or the Tozo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u183	I agree with the Minister quite often, but in this case I really do not, because the Minister thinks from within the system. We're trying to tell you to think from people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u184	Oh, okay. Now it's getting clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u185	No, I'm serious, because we'll do it tozzp'ers. I congratulate you for that, becausezzp'ers were not covered by the regular social security system either, and we have all said: this is such a unique situation, we are going to do something for it. Because we do not want people to have a massive income drop at once, we are making a scheme that we are also extending for the duration of the crisis. For flex workers, we had the same idea. So now we see that there is an arrangement which is very good that it has been implemented, but which only applies for the first three months of the crisis. So we still have a lot of flex workers who are now empty-handed. I call on the Minister to look at it from that point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u186	But we did. In fact, the whole package is based on entrepreneurs and employees affected by the corona crisis, which is not a normal entrepreneurial risk and for which no normal arrangements are available. For all the arrangements, we've put a plus on top of it. In the NOW a plus is done on top of the regular WW or part-time WW. In the Tozo there is a plus on top of the normal Bbz scheme, for self-employed persons. The TOFA did not exist at all; it is for a group that would not normally be entitled to social security, but we do this plus on it. Because we want to offer people a safety net to catch them. All I'm saying is that if you let the TOFA last longer, you're gonna get the weird situation that people who haven't worked enough and who haven't earned a WW benefit would get the TOFA but no more WW. I can't explain that. I don't think that's fair either. This is not fair to people who, for example, have worked for at least six months and paid contributions in order to obtain WW rights. That's not from systems or people's thinking, but that's from thinking justice. Apart from that, I see all kinds of risks of misuse and abuse, which leads to the money getting wrong, but that is a derivative of that. For the whole package, we have said in phase 2 that applies to the NOW and to the Tozo............................................................................................................................................................................................. That's why there's a different discharge penalty than in package 1. That is why there is a link with education, precisely because we have to look to the future. That's why the partner test is in there, which is the subject of discussion. We are now just further on in this crisis. Again, it's only been three months since the big hits. It's bizarre that we're already talking about "further," but that aside. We have not changed the package for nothing: we also want our economy to adapt to the new reality as adaptation is inevitable. But we don't agree on this. I will therefore not recommend the amendment, but Mr Smeulders understands that. Mr Van Haga asked: why doesn't the minister do something for students? I do not agree with Mr Van Haga, because students can also apply for a TOFA. In fact, a large part of this group that fell between shore and ship is formed by students. We know that from the data from the payroll return chain. It is precisely at the request of the Chamber that I adjusted the terms and conditions and lowered the threshold slightly, allowing more students to claim the TOFA scheme. Secondly, Minister Van Engelshoven, together with DUO, has looked at how to bring this to the attention of students, so that students can apply more quickly. Mr Jasper van Dijk asked: why did the Minister not consider looking at actual income at TOFA and possibly opening up the WW further? In my letter of May 20th, I set out the six options I have explored. A concession based on actual income is also explored.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I just can't. Then you run the risk that people will get benefits at the end of the year; people will not be helped by that. That's why we chose speed. I will say something very briefly about education, because we are really running out of time. We have made 50 million available for the NL package learned by, as some sort of driver Van Weyenberg said, too, in order to get the big money out of the R&D funds, money that social partners each year save for retraining and retraining, develop for a lifetime, i.e. for all those training arrangements. In addition, within this 50 million we have allocated additional money for career guidance, because we know that this is a very good measure which is also very much appreciated, for people who, for example, have to go from one sector to another and wonder: what sector is there for me to find work in, how do I get there and what training do I have to take in order to do that? But education is not included in the working agenda with the social partners for nothing, towards 1 October, towards the 1-October package. I believe that we really need to make agreements with each other in order to get rid of the big box of money that is available to the social partners. We have an indication that it concerns EUR 3.6 billion. That money has saved private parties together for their R&D funds. I believe that, in addition to the start-up budget and the budgets for a lifetime, which we also make available from the public purses, we should use them together with social partners. We are now looking at what is actually coming out of that. That's what we're working on right now. I would ask for your patience so that we can make it available for the second half of the year as well. That's what it was all about. Mr Smeulders had the specific question of whether I am prepared to broaden the grant scheme to HBO. That's an arrangement from the Minister of OCW. Employers may, under certain conditions, use this grant scheme for HBOs. So that arrangement is also open to HBOs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u187	I have an interruption for you from Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u188	The Minister just mentioned an amount of available resources. Do I understand correctly that that amount is the money that is now available in the R&D funds?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u189	The report Wide Social Reviews 5 has recently been sent to your Chamber. It is indeed a pile of reports. That report is called Unfamiliar talent. It estimates that private parties are investing 3.6 billion euros a year in a lifetime. You can do that through O%O funds. We can do that through collective agreements. It can be done through individual jars. But the total is 3.6 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u190	I was just checking. So it concerns the total and not just the R&D funds? That was my question. Does the Minister also have a current picture of how much is available purely within the R&D funds?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u191	I'm just gonna say it out of my head. The last available picture is from several years ago. Then it was about 1.8 billion. But it has been ten years since serious research has been carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u192	Mr Van Weyenberg, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u193	Sorry, Chairman. Isn't it a good thing that we don't have to look again at how much we're talking about today? I'm glad we did that once in a while. I also have figures from maybe 15 years ago. But by now, the amounts are much higher. Shouldn't that be re-examined?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u194	I believe that this is also happening within the framework of the STAP scheme and of a lifetime of developing... or enjoying a lifetime. What was it again, Mrs. Tielen? The "keep learning" scheme. We are getting a better view of this with social partners. We're just looking for the intersections. It is a matter of cost sectorally, so from one sector to another. But we don't have that data ready. Well, I should probably go get that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u195	Could the Minister also comment on Mr Thissen's and Mr Oval's plea? Then it's the Delta Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u196	I didn't read it myself, but I do have a note in front of me with an answer. So that's easy. It is always complicated not to know the context and then give an answer to it. We have, of course, made an assessment in the package of what is needed, which can help to detach the education system, to make the R&D funds work. That's what 50 million is based on. Part of that is real career guidance and part of that is just making sure that sectors can deliver to shape that. I don't know the 500 million euros from the UWV. Then I really should call Mr Thissen and ask what he based it on. But our estimate is that until the end of the year we can put public money away well. With everything you do more there, the risk is that it just doesn't come to use. That is a different discussion than the question: how much money do you need for reintegration, for helping people from work to work and that sort of thing? We should just think about that with each other, with the UWV and with the municipalities for the next few months. That is the question: what is actually applicable here? What do we know when it comes to the question of what works and what doesn't? We have, of course, done a lot of evaluation studies in recent years. We know there was money available, but the effectiveness was very low. In the government agreement for personal services, we have released 70 million to shape this at the UWV. So we have to pick up the total net and then we have to make a sensible decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u197	Mrs. Van Brenk, supplemental.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u198	I would indeed very much appreciate the Minister's contact with the UWV to ensure that it is streamlined. And I'd still like to give something to the Minister. I walked around in that polder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u199	I know. It's also in the pension file, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u200	Yeah, there too, but also in day care. Then things went all wrong and a lot of people got fired. Then it was not possible to get people away from employers, because they waited until the last moment, because they wanted to keep their business running. They wouldn't hand those people over to retrain them. I would just like to say that the money is there, but then there must also be very good cooperation from the sectors. So low in that sector, not what's decided at the top. So perhaps the Minister, when he gets to work on it, can at least make sure that there is real cooperation from an employer's point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u201	I very much agree with Mrs Van Brenn. We have, of course, also evaluated the last crisis well. We've been looking at what works and what doesn't. This is also one of the recommendations. The same applies, for example, to the bbl-spots. In sectors such as construction, there was the risk of the bbl-spots being cleaned up, so after the crisis you simply have too few people who are also well-educated. But Mrs Van Brenk has adopted a motion on work-to-work. I would also like to mention the Van Weyenberg/Heerma motion on retraining which was tabled during the previous debate. We'll both take them with us in the preparation of the plans, in the Work Agenda, as it's called.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u202	There's been an interruption by Mrs. Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u203	I may be a little early with my interruption, because perhaps the Minister is now going to promise that he will make a breakthrough on the 'keep learning' dossier. If that's the case, I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u204	If I have a chance to make a breakthrough, I'm sure I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u205	There was just a little discussion about how much money there is in all those jars. There's 37. In a debate at the beginning of this year, the Minister promised to come forward with an update on "lifelong learning 3.0" before the summer. I think that's what we called it back then. Now both the climate and the meteorological summer have already begun, but our recess has not yet begun. But I haven't seen that letter yet. So the question is, when is this letter coming? In addition, I make an announcement that the standing committee itself has already done some homework. So if the Minister still wants to draw on that, I can also refer him to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u206	That is very dangerous: if the Chamber itself is going to do all kinds of things. I'm gonna take a good look at that. Honestly, I don't know. The people who do all this, the NOW and all the regulations, are for a large part of the Labour Relations Directorate. Those are the same people who do a Life Long Developing. They have worked very hard over the past few months, even on weekends, to keep the emergency package going and to make all these arrangements. So I wouldn't blame them either if some things got in the delay. Because to the impossible these people are not kept either. I'm gonna go check and find out what the time frame and the state of play are. I shall come back to that in second place. I'm about to ask what the timeline is and what the state of play is for the second term. I will come back to that in second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u207	Mrs. Tielen still?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u208	Yes. All the respect and compassion for all these people, I get that very well. At the same time, I think it is almost Chamberwide that we are seeing that ensuring that people remain fit for work, including in other sectors, requires training. This calls for the detachment of budgets on the one hand, but also simply for a plan of action. We should not wait until November.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u209	I agree with Mrs Tielen. There is a great deal going on and everything is going on, including Mrs Hamer, the chairman of the ESC, as the trigger of the agenda for action. All this goes on and the development of the STEP budget continues. But I don't know if I can come up with a letter before the summer. That is the only thing I have my doubts about, because the people who have to write that letter have written 40 letters to you in the past few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u210	We have tabled an amendment to make available not 50 million for lifelong development, for retraining, but 150 million. Is the Minister happy if that amendment is adopted?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u211	To be honest, I said that a little bit implicitly, too, I do not think that the money is actually being paid out. So honesty dictates that I don't think the money can be spent effectively, simply because it can't just be executed one-two-three and ends up with the people who need it. We have made an assessment of what is realistic possible to do for the second half of this year. That is what EUR 50 million is based on. I've heard before in the first term: 50 million out of 25 billion is nothing. Well, we've never looked like that. We have looked at what is now necessary in order to be able to get this job in the sectors. That is what it is based on, not on budgetary considerations. If we needed 150, we'd have done 150. So I don't think it's gonna be effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u212	That is a very clear answer from the Minister. What surprises me, however, is that this week the UWV is letting the media know and the UWV is the implementation organisation for which the minister is responsible that they actually need 500 million, if they are to be able to take the steps that they think are needed in the crisis. How does the Minister rhyme with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u213	It was Mr Thissen, apparently. I didn't read it. I don't know if that's about this year. Or is it about structural, or the combination of municipalities and UWV? I really need to read that. What I do know is that there is a great need for more financial resources for personal services in reintegration. We have now taken a step in that direction, with 70 million in the coalition agreement. We're also looking into whether that's gonna work. Does that have any effect? You can only expect me to take a critical look at it, because it is, of course, community money, which must also have an effect. This is a different discussion than what you can effectively put away public money by 2020, which can also be used effectively to retrain and retrain people or help them find a new job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u214	Just a brief supplement and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u215	Yes, very briefly. So I find this complicated, because the UWV says something in the paper. That says we need 500 million. We have already tabled an amendment in which we say that 50 million from the cabinet is a little short, at least put 100 million on top of that; then you are sure that you can move forward for the rest of the year. And if you're left with money, please take it to next year and then go spend it well. That doesn't rhyme in our eyes. It is clear what the Minister is doing now, but I find this complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u216	I find it complicated to respond to something I haven't read myself. As Mr Smeulders says, can I read it now for the debate? Yeah, you can. I've been reading a lot over the last few days, a lot, I can tell you, every night too, really thick reports and stuff like that. But unfortunately, I didn't read this interview. But I'd be happy to take a look at what I think of that in the suspension. I just don't know, because I didn't read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u217	I was also wondering if there was read for the children in the evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u218	I read the Donald Duck last night; it's possible. Really!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u219	That question came to my mind. You can do that sometimes, in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u220	My son wanted me to read to the Donald Duck last night. It's kind of against my principles, but I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u221	I will now give the Minister the opportunity to continue with the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u222	That's pretty hard, by the way, reading the Donald Duck. I'm sorry, I was just off the air for a second. Mr Van Weyenberg asked about the progress reports. Yeah, we sent out the first intel from April. In mid-July and mid-August you can see the following reports on the numbers, sectors and such things. Mr Gijs van Dijk asked: is the Minister prepared to limit the number of flex workers per company? Well, no. No. Then there are all the questions put by Mr Van Haga on the one-and-a-half-metre society and the discussion on the OMT opinion and the RIVM. I believe that tomorrow is a debate with the Prime Minister and the Minister of the United States of America. That's more about the medical strategy and the limitations there are. I focus with my colleagues Hoekstra and Wiebes on taking the hit through the support packages. There will be a debate in your room tomorrow about all these questions. I see that there are differences of opinion and that there are differences of opinion over time. But that's entrapment, so I quit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u223	That's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u224	The same applies to the debate on the cultural sector. Mr Jasper van Dijk mentioned it. I think there is a debate on this with Minister Van Engelshoven on Monday, so I refer to that. A response to the Roemer Committee. I am very pleased with the speed with which Mr Roemer has taken up his position. I've spoken to him a number of times in the last few weeks. It's a party to see Mr. Roemer's energy. The Secretary of State says yes, because we were in the same call together. That was really nice. It's been a good choice of ours, if I say so myself. He has done a great deal of work in a short period of time, and he has made a large number of recommendations for the short term, but also for the longer term. We are currently working hard on a cabinet response to these recommendations, because it concerns transport, housing, working conditions and registration. Knops, Ollongren, Van Nieuwenhuizen, Mrs Van Ark, I, Mr Hugo de Jonge and Mr Van Rijn are all involved. There's a lot of work going on right now. We'd like to send that to your room as soon as possible. Finally, the amendments in my area. The amendment in part No. 3 by Mr Smeulders on NL learns by what we have just talked about, I should like to advise against. The other amendment tabled by Mr Smeulders, on extending the TOFA until September, which we have also discussed extensively, I would also like to advise against. Finally, Mrs Van Brenn, who overwhelmed Mr Smeulders. Mr Smeulders asked for 100 million. Mrs. Van Brenk asked for 500 million. The same argument also discourages that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u225	That means that the amendments to documents Nos. 3, 7 and 9 have been dissuaded. I have an interruption from Mrs Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u226	I had asked about the reintegration of both UWV and municipalities. In other words: is that happening now, or is that slowing down, or is it happening faster? That is also important to ensure that people stay on the job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u227	Perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to say something concrete about the municipalities. During the UWV experiments run with the improvement of personal services, both in the WW and in the WIA. We've seen a large influx of people into the WW over the past two months due to corona. Personal services are, of course, mainly aimed at people at high risk of long-term unemployment, while influxes in recent weeks are likely to mainly concern people with a short duration of WW. Before you can see for which group retraining and reintegration activities can be effective, we are really a while away. Let me assure you that we are going to keep a finger on the wrist here and consult with the UWV on what is needed here. It seems that Mr Thissen has already said something about this, which I have not been able to read. But in this phase, two months after a first group entered the WW, there is still very little to say about it. But we are going to see how we can continue to shape this in a good way. I do agree with Mrs Tielen that it is very important to be able to help people from work to work quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u228	Thank you. I believe that we will then get to the part of the Secretary of State, but I suspect that the necessary measures must be taken to clean up the office. The chair is indeed completely cleaned. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u229	Thank you, Mr President. It has been said many times this morning in the Chamber and also in the debates before it, namely that the corona crisis, which we are in the midst of, has a huge far-reaching impact not only on public health but also on the economy and the labour market. The measures taken in the light of public health, which it is good that they have been taken, do indeed have an impact on the economy and the labour market which cannot simply be covered by the regular entrepreneurial risk. That was also the legitimacy of the cabinet to take the broad package of measures. There are also many questions from your Room today about the package support to self-employed. I'd like to go into that. As your Chamber has also pointed out, many independent entrepreneurs are currently going through a very difficult time. Many of them saw their work stop overnight, wondered how to proceed and sometimes also employed people for whom they also had that care. At the same time, the new economic reality means that it is no longer an option for some of them to continue to run the company in the same way they were used to. Mrs Tielen said that we need a lot of creativity and adaptability. From the government we try to support this, among other things by allowing self-employed persons, dgas, to help them provide their livelihoods and support them in the adjustment process by allowing them, for example, to have recourse to the Tozo scheme. It has not been discussed in this debate, but there has also been a transfer of the emergency package to the Caribbean Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Currently, it is estimated that some 374,000 applications have been made for Tozo 1. For Tozo 2 it is now tens of thousands of applications. Often these are renewal applications. Most of these applications concern income support. It has previously been exchanged and communicated to the Chamber that the Tozo is based on the Bbz (Act providing assistance to the self-employed), which is based on the Participation Act. That is possible, but I would almost say, given the questions raised by your Chamber, that there is a particular straitjacket from which action must be taken. Your Chamber has asked a lot of questions about that. Mrs Palland rightly said: one size does not fit all. Today's questions show that too. The crisis we are in is unprecedented and has come at an enormous speed. This has enabled us to see what kind of arrangement we can take as a vehicle to provide rapid relief. We've rigged them as best we can, knowing that unfortunately, we can't help everyone. The Minister said it, too. I also understand why legislation normally takes much longer when I look at the many situations, also remembered here, where there is a certain abrasion or a certain injustice is felt. If you go through a regular legislative process, you might invest it in a different way. Important for the questions I will answer is also the broader palette that we have of social security, including our regular social security, which people use and which sometimes includes certain regimes and rules. I'm just gonna call it the explainability in a broader sense. What I would also like to include in my answer is that I think it is important that we keep our eyes on the ball, because the current crisis also shows the vulnerabilities that exist in our labour market. This has also been raised by many of you. They're getting really painfully obvious now. That is why I consider the debate on Mr Borstlap's report to be so crucial. I say this explicitly: including the fifth pillar, because I feel deeply involved in this from the target groups that I make policy for. Mr. Chairman. Having said that, I would like to answer a number of questions from the Chamber, including the partner test in the Tozo 2. Many MPs have asked for this. I would also like to say here that in the Tozo, unlike the regular welfare provision, there is no power test and viability test. That's what stays the same in the Tozo 2. The procedure is designed in such a way that there is a lot of self-declaration work. That has everything to do with the feasibility. At the same time, as the Minister has just said, we are also trying to come at a next stage: from the crisis back to normal or as normal as possible. This also means a step towards normalization of assistance. It is also important to increase consistency in the treatment of other people who have to rely on the ordinary Participation Act as a result of the corona crisis. The choice of the partner key was made in that playing field. At this stage we must also ask people to adapt to the new reality and also to the new economic reality. In addition, the partner test contributes to a careful use of resources. But I would like to add that, as far as I am concerned, that is subordinate. It is clear from the words I have used so far that the most important thing is to support entrepreneurs at this difficult time so that they can keep up their businesses and the jobs they take care of. The feasibility of the scheme is a major factor. When we started working with the Tozo 2 the municipalities indicated: please keep them grafted on the Tozo 1 as much as possible. This means that when adding the partner test we worked on a partner test that is feasible for municipalities, namely asking for a statement. In addition, the Tozo is one of the measures in the emergency package that entrepreneurs can rely on. For a fixed charge scheme, they can also refer to EZK's schemes and they may also have recourse to the NOW. In this interplay, the cabinet, and I, as portfolio holder of the Tozo, consider it justified to enter the partner test. A number of MPs asked Mr Van Weyenberg specifically whether the partner test could not be replaced by the single standard. An amendment has also been tabled by the Labour Party. It's getting a little technical. Forgive me, Mr. Chairman. If you look at the Participation Act and the regulations on which the Tozo is based, then the standard for the level of benefit you provide is the way the household is composed. You have a single standard or a family standard, a household standard. If you want to change that system, you really need to change the Participation Act yourself. Then I refer to what I just said when I made the comparison with other groups of people using the Participation Act: they are sometimes also confronted with a partner test. But apart from that more principled point... Let me not end up in a discussion of principle. Apart from that more substantive point, my assessment is that it also takes too long to provide a solution in terms of lead time, and therefore in terms of feasibility. That's what I wanted to report on the partner test. Mr Van Weyenberg asked a specific question about the implementation of Tozo 2. He was talking about people who actually thought: the cabinet makes a moral appeal on me not to use it if I don't need it. So they didn't do that in March and April, but now they're thinking, "hey, I actually need it." Now, however, there is a stricter requirement, namely the partner test. Can they still be covered by the old rules of Tozo 1? I certainly have a feeling about the theme he's touching. Tozo 1 could be applied for until 31 May, with retroactive effect until 1 March. If you have applied for Tozo 1 from 1 May, you will receive it in May, June and July. So that's Tozo 1. Municipalities have the power, if the entrepreneur asks to advance the application date of the Tozo benefit, to revise a decision. If the decision is not final and the deadline for objection has not yet expired, municipalities should also reconsider it. There may also be a situation in which the decision is final and the time limit for objections has expired. In that case, municipalities will have no obligation to do so, but they will be allowed to apply customisation and also to adopt a revised decision. That seems to me to be a solution that could provide air for people to get into this situation. This also has to do with the fact that there is no obligation in the Participation Act to reconsider decisions with formal legal force. But I think it would be a good idea for me to say this to Mr Van Weyenberg in order to discuss this actively with the municipalities. I can imagine that this very specific approach may have escaped their attention, in the many work they have done to introduce the Tozo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u230	That's good. I will come back to it in second place. You also want to prevent people from being "punished" in less than three months' use of the Tozo, in my words, because they have waited a little longer to apply and now suddenly notice that other conditions apply in Tozo, which means that they are no longer eligible. I will come back to this in second place, but I thank the Secretary of State for this. I think we're looking for the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u231	I have nothing more to add to that. Mr. Chairman. I come to the questions about students who are active as independent entrepreneurs and at the same time study. That's commendable. This is actually where we come up against what I also said in my introduction. The issue we are discussing today is covered by a number of links, namely desirability, feasibility, possibility, but also comparability with other groups in similar situations. If you are under 27 years of age, you are not entitled to general assistance under the Participation Act if you are able to attend education funded by the Empire and thus claim student funding under the Study Finance Act 2000. We built the Tozo on the Participation Act. Therefore, this exclusion also applies to the right to assistance for maintenance under the Tozo. In fact, in the Participation Act, the 2000 Study Finance Act is seen as an adequate provision. This means that students are already expected to be able to provide livelihoods through study funding. Thus, it is substantially different from for entrepreneurs who have lost all or part of their income as a result of the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u232	This isn't college funding, is it? That's just a loan. A student is asked to borrow. Anyone else can also ask you to borrow, at a bank or at an agency. So basically you send the student to the loan. So basically, you're not helping with that. They can use it to borrow a small amount of money to provide them with their livelihoods for a while, but that does not help them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u233	I have a great deal of feeling about this, too, with these questions from Mr Öztürk. I also see what this means when you look at it through the eyes of the one who says "I'm an entrepreneur and besides that I study." At the same time, the Participation Act is the safety net in our social security. In addition, you cannot claim that assistance if you can provide your livelihood in another way. The law that we have says that that applies to study funding, even if it is a loan. If you would now say that you are making an exception under the Tozo, then you are creating a legal inequality for those students who have no enterprise and are not covered by the welfare law, and that is an undesirable situation. At the same time, I would add that this is one of the points you encounter when you have to make a law with great speed that has to be a response to a crisis. Then you know that you can help in a lot of places, but also that you are lacking in a number of places; that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u234	There are students who say, "I'm quitting college." There are students who say, "Wait a minute, I'm doing two things at once, studying and doing business, so I mean something to society, but I'm being disadvantaged. I think you can also say the following with regard to this whole system of regulations. The study funding is a loan, so it's not really a benefit. That's the only way you're gonna be able to exclude this group. Let's face it, the VVD is an entrepreneurial party. It must be flexible and smart enough to find something to help this group within the legal framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u235	But the Secretary of State is here on behalf of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u236	This Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment considers it very important that a regulation can also be explained to a broad group. People under the age of 27 who receive study and study funding are not entitled to welfare benefits. We've established that with each other, and that's bound to be in the law. I can imagine Mr Öztürk saying from the point of view of the entrepreneur who is also a student that he sees an injustice. But on the other hand, I feel that I am the guardian of the system, that I must ensure that it is also explained to the person who is not an entrepreneur and is not allowed to make use of the welfare allowance. In order to maintain that safety net even in the longer term, I believe that this provision is justified, although I realize that it can feel really unfair from an individual perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u237	Thank you. I suggest you continue with the answer. We've got a few minutes before the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u238	Mr. Chairman. I come to Mrs Palland's questions on the situation of people in the border regions. Several written questions have also been put by the CDA Group. As regards the motion that has been tabled, I have indicated that I will inform the Chamber before 1 July of the discussions that are taking place with Belgium and Germany. However, I think it is important to say at this point that the Tozo, based on the Participation Act, is a regulation that comes from the European scheme that each country must ensure that the livelihoods of people residing legally in that country are provided for if they cannot do so themselves. At first, the Tozo concept did not have that arrangement. For people who live in the Netherlands but have their business abroad and for people who live abroad and have their business in the Netherlands, the capital component and the living component offer opportunities. I hear many people in the border region say: I pay premium in the Netherlands; why can't I use the Tozo? But the Tozo is not a contribution-driven insurance; the Tozo is a provision for residents as a sustenance. We are therefore looking with the other countries at what they are doing and whether there are gaps there, but I also think it is important to point out here that every EU Member State is responsible for assistance, for the livelihood of its own inhabitants. This also means that there should be a closed system in this sense, but if it is true on paper, it does not have to feel that way for people in practice. Take a look at the interrupting debate I just had with Mr Öztürk. That is why we are talking with our colleague in Belgium about how they have arranged it there for the inhabitants of Belgium, of whom there are a number of Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u239	I have an interruption for you from Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u240	I'd like to go back to the age limit. I'd like to take the Secretary of State to Texel for a moment. Sophie lives on Texel. Sophie's 20 years old. Since she was 17, she's been living on her own. She has a thriving business: she organizes marriages. She's already organized over a hundred marriages on the island. That's what she lives on. She's not going to school. She gets €250. In a year, she'll be 21 years old. She'd get that $1,050. It is not explained for itself, because it has the same costs as all those who undertake and also have a rental house or a merchant house. Can we not make an exception for this group that is not studying, but which is completely self-sufficient with its own company?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u241	Mr Gijs van Dijk refers here to the youth standard in the Participation Act. That is another issue, but that is also a difficult one, given the issues we have in the Tozo context. Here too, in the broader picture of our social security, parents have a maintenance obligation for children up to the age of 21. This means that in regular cases you cannot claim the assistance, and the assistance is the basis for the support schemes for entrepreneurs. If a young person gets into trouble because of this, for example because the parents are not there, or because parents can't, then the municipality can also raise that amount under the Participation Act. I say the following, and I find that annoying, because I think Mr Gijs van Dijk knows that I like to work according to the adage 'If it is not done as it should be done, then it must be done as it can', and I feel a little 'computer says no' today. I also know that we have put in place an arrangement here which has had to deal with the most urgent need very quickly. That's the arrangement that must be put in place for the system. A number of cases are now being outlined, among others by Mr Gijs van Dijk, who feel very unjust, but I think that we have made the right balance and that this arrangement contains the balance that needs to be taken, given the customization that is possible in municipalities, the longer-term interest, and the explainability to others in a similar situation that is not due to corona.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u242	Briefly, Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u243	So maybe there's room through the municipality. That depends on how the municipality fills that out. Does the Secretary of State or the Cabinet therefore provide some of these guidelines? As the Secretary of State said, there are a few grey areas that are or feel unjust. If you give guidelines, then a municipality also knows: I can take a step here to help this entrepreneur, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u244	Mr President, I am looking at time; I will try to keep it short. One of the great things about the Participation Act is that as a municipality you can always apply customization in it if you think: this is not in any form or any article. That's the famous Article 18. That stands for situations that may arise, but I do maintain that it is not for nothing that we have set the standard, which always applies, unless, to 21 years. That's quite right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u245	The Secretary of State will continue to answer the last few questions, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u246	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I'm going from the youth standard to the AOW age. The same goes for this, I say in the direction of Mrs Van Brenk. She asked: is it justified that you do not have a power test via the Tozo, but through the AIO you do? The legal treatment of people above the AOW age goes through the band of the AOW. That's where the power is not taken into account either. We have said that AOW beneficiaries are not eligible for the Tozo life support. Mrs Van Brenk has initiated that for the capital side, because the income of this group is already guaranteed to the social minimum. Then you can claim the AIO, but it does indeed have a power component. Mr Öztürk asked whether the height of the Tozo could depend on the sector. I also have to say to him that, because we follow the P-wetssystematiek, we have a generic regime and not a sectoral one. But in the context of the Minister's speech on perhaps the future, I can imagine that sectors will be looked at. Only that's not possible within the Tozo as an arrangement. Mr Smeulders asked about the future. The Minister has, of course, already said the necessary things about this. For me too, it is too early to see what exactly is needed. In any case, we will continue to see how we proceed with the current emergency package; the Tozo is also a component in it. Of course, attention is also paid to the position of Finance... Sorry, to the position of the self-employed. Yeah, okay, also to the position of finance. Mr Smeulders also asked whether training should not be an exclusion criterion for a benefit. I think we all recognise the importance of training for people who are not at work, especially in the welfare sector. But there is no general possibility to study in welfare, because you should also be available for work. In the context of reintegration, however, a targeted course or training combined with guidance to work is possible. Mr. Chairman. I have received a question from Mr Jasper van Dijk which I will answer briefly, because this afternoon at 16.45 p.m. we still have the follow-up to the general consultation on poverty and debt. He called for attention to be paid to the increase in debt and poverty. I very much agree with him. We also work closely with many social partners but also with municipalities to see where we can meet the need. Of course, we got the manifesto from the 15 mayors. We have the report of the Halsema Committee, with which we are fully committed to these developments. We will discuss this further this afternoon. I would like to say a little more about the report which Mr Jasper van Dijk asked for attention to be given to, namely the report which is also intended from the planning offices as a contribution to electoral programmes. It outlines many measures to combat poverty. That is also necessary, because if you do nothing, poverty will increase more rapidly than we all would like. But he also specifically asked about the reduction of assistance; we also exchanged this in general consultation. In 2019, we agreed to completely reduce the transferability of the general tax discount from the least-earning partner to the most-earning partner in 2023. It was sometimes referred to as "the counter charge subsidy" and had implications for the benefits, as they are based on the net reference minimum wage for the assistance, which is still included in the double general tax rebate. The aim of this is, of course, that this outflow from the assistance, working from a benefit situation, should continue to pay. That's right, because if you didn't do this, at some point as a couple in welfare, you'd be left with more than you do when you're a breadwinner. I don't think that's desirable. Therefore, the double general tax reduction in the net reference minimum wage for assistance will gradually disappear in 2035. As far as Mr Jasper van Dijk is concerned, I would like to add that every August, the cabinet did a purchasing power repair of the assistance by increasing the general tax rebate. Furthermore, this seems to me to be a very good discussion for this afternoon, but certainly also in the election programmes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u247	However, Mr Jasper van Dijk has an interruption on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u248	Yeah, if the Secretary of State answers my question here, I'd like to go into it here too. The report of the Central Planning Bureau and the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, not least, points out that poverty will increase by a quarter if nothing happens; with a quarter, if no policy is taken, by reducing assistance. What is the plan of this cabinet to combat this rise in poverty?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u249	Let's get back to the purpose of those reports. These are, above all, building blocks for political parties for election programmes, because there is quite a political choice behind what measure you are taking. But at least let us make the choice of this cabinet. That is, on the one hand, supporting income and regulations. Look, for example, at the 1.5 billion we have put into the child-related budgets, child benefit and child care payments, which shows that only giving money to people is not enough, because poverty is not falling. On the other hand, the combination of making work more attractive, such as the measures I have just outlined. Personally, I think it will always be in a combination of both. In general, we have also had an interesting exchange of views on how to deal, for example, with sheltered work in the labour market region or with social work facilities. There is not one measure that can provide relief. As far as I am concerned, and that is also the cabinet policy, which is ultimately the best way out of poverty, for people who can do it, work. That should make you as attractive as possible. And especially in times of crisis, we have to do people's work, and that's what we do. Look, for example, at the letter from Home Affairs which Social Affairs also looked at, about extra money for social employment, but also about what we have done with the food bank. We also keep an open ear and an eye for that at this time. And that's really necessary, because it doesn't happen by itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u250	In addition, but very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u251	Yes, Mr. Chairman. "The best way to get out of poverty is work." Excellent, but we note that there are now more unemployed than less because of the corona crisis. Next, the Secretary of State mentions all the policies in place, while the planning agencies say: without additional measures, poverty increases by a quarter. The Secretary of State says: yes, but it's actually something for the next cabinet. That is how I read her answer, or at least before the elections. That's how the report was written. I therefore note that this cabinet is not now taking any measures to reduce this increase in poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u252	In my view, that conclusion would be too short, especially since in recent years, every year during the August decision-making process, purchasing power has been repaired and a lot of money has gone into child schemes. That's permanent, too. And now we see how badly it is needed. This is also a bit in response to Mrs Tielen's question: what else can you do? For example, at the moment, as we speak, apply an acceleration to reintegration policies in the labour market regions, because there are also many sectors where people are very badly needed to see how you deal with it. That's one of those. There's just not one measure that's gonna solve everything. It'll always be a mix. And as far as I'm concerned, it would be a shame if we all said "it's up to the next cabinet," because then we'd lose nine months where there's just a lot to be done. I'd like to talk about it later this afternoon, Mr. Chairman. Then there is the last question, because I have actually answered Mrs Tielen's question. I referred to the platform NLWerktDoor, where really a lot of extra energy goes into. There is the question of Mrs Palland, who asked whether we should also ensure that childcare organisations repay the amount above the maximum hourly rate. We have, of course, made agreements with the sector. The interbranch organisations have previously expressed the intention, on behalf of the sector, that childcare organisations should pay the part above the maximum hourly rate. Many childcare organisations have already done this. I'm very happy about that, too. I would also like to say here that I am very proud of the childcare sector, of what they have done in the crisis, but certainly also of how they take this role back. In some cases, this is also what we get back. For example, parents and childcare organisations have reached other agreements and an hourly allowance has been paid. It is not an obligation from the government, it is an agreement made by the industry itself. And conversations with the childcare organisations are also conducted by the interbranch organisations. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u253	Thank you. Then there are the amendments, two of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u254	Oh, yeah, sorry, Chairman. I have two amendments. An amendment by Mr Gijs van Dijk to extend the standard of assistance for adults to independent entrepreneurs. We have already had an interrupting debate on this. I would advise against that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u255	This is about the amendment to item No. 5, I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u256	Yes. Lower welfare standards apply to 18 to 21-year-olds. Under the Civil Code, parents are required to maintain their children under the age of 21. The same applies to young entrepreneurs. And there is always the Participation Act for a supplementary call on special assistance, to supplement the income. In this way, the amendment leads to unequal treatment and, with retroactive effect, I should also describe it as unworkable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u257	It is a question of the amendment to item No. 4. It's not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u258	The amendment in part No. 5, also by Mr Gijs van Dijk, is about the expiry of the partner income test. I also advise against this amendment. I've said several things about it. We are trying to take a step towards normalization of assistance. We want to ensure a careful use of resources. If there is more income in a household, we think this should be used. What is asked here is also very different from the regular welfare system. You introduce a new standard, and thus it gets the title impossible. So I advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u259	The amendment in part No. 5 is not recommended. Thank you. That's gonna take us into the second term, something's gonna leave. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u260	Mr. Chairman. Time flies when you're having fun, huh? I would like to join the words of the Minister, who rightly congratulated a lot of organisations that ensure that at least a lot of people get the emergency support they really deserve. However, I would like to draw attention to a group of people who, in my view, are being treated unfairly by the Secretary of State. D66, Mr Van Weyenberg, just pointed out that the power test really should not apply to thezzp'ers in the assistance. That is right, but it should not apply to self-employed AOW beneficiaries. If they have a company car, they are not entitled to that supplementary income support, because that capital test still applies. You understand: I keep repeating it, because it is unjust. That's why I have this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that self-employed entrepreneurs whose income is below the social minimum as a result of the corona crisis, both below and above the AOW age, should be able to claim social assistance without a capital test,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35473-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u261	Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for all the answers and their commitment. I look forward to the rest of the day, because then we're going to talk about poverty and debt again. That's at least as important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u262	Thank you. Mr Gijs van Dijk has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u263	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I said in the first term: on the way to a better normal, security of existence on one, two and three. I call on the Cabinet not only to refer to electoral programmes, but above all to do what you can to improve the security of life of so many people. Mr. Chairman. I too would like to express my thanks to all those people who, for example, work at UWV. We have often had critical debates about it in the Chamber, but they have worked very hard in recent times. The Netherlands stood still, but in municipalities, in several ministries and in the implementing agencies, they were working hard to support all those people and companies, so all the praise for that. Mr President, I have two further motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas flex workers were the first to cope with the blows of this corona crisis;]] [[believes that flex workers also want to be sure of solid ground under their feet;]] [[noting that the German Government has already set a maximum number of flexicurities in the meat sector;]] [[calls on the government to include the maximum number of flex workers in companies in the working agenda with the social partners and to present a concrete proposal on this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35473-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u264	I heard a yes from the minister. So that's good. Then my second and final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that many young workers in particular were immediately put out on the streets during the start of the corona crisis and that their WW or TOFA is now ending;]] [[noting that many workers, often young people, now have to rely on assistance;]] [[calls on the government, together with the social partners, to pay particular attention to the prospects and solutions for this group and to take this into account in the plans for the autumn recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35473-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u265	Finally, thank you to the Secretary of State and the Minister for replying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u266	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Tielen, on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u267	Thanks to the Minister and the Secretary of State, but also to the Members of the Chamber. After all, we do these kinds of debates with each other. I am not quite satisfied yet, but perhaps that is because some of my questions are about the shorter and longer term future. Perhaps we will hear answers tomorrow or in September to questions I have asked about, for example, certain sectors. I do not know exactly what the Minister said about the administratively poignant cases that I mentioned in the first term. I heard him say there's gonna be an investigation or something. Well, I don't know if that was a commitment or not. So, just to be safe, I'm going to table a motion and I'll hear what the Minister wants to say later. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas some companies are not entitled to the NOW for administrative reasons;]] [[noting that the third amendment, the letter of 20 May 2020, would require that part of these companies still be granted NOW;]] [[whereas it is unclear whether and what administrative reasons are still unintentionally hindering the granting of NOW;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a poll or otherwise sample survey together with UWV in order to gain insight into remaining distressing cases, and to inform the Court thereof as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Tielen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35473-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u268	I put the title "quickscan" above. That's because I actually like that word. As regards the SAB, I would like to thank the Minister for having carried out the relevant motion that we tabled in November and which was also adopted. We were supposed to have an AO about it this afternoon, but that has now been moved to September. So I actually want to use this moment to ask two questions that I would have liked to ask this afternoon. The first is very technical, sorry, people, and is about the written requirements. The next week it's July 1st and then the deadline expires. I am therefore curious to see what the Minister intends to do with these written requirements. Can he dedicate a brief letter to that? In addition and somewhat larger and more relevant there is the point of the ibo Part Time. We've asked each other a whole set of questions about that. I wonder when the answers will come. I would really like to involve that ibo in the AO that we do not have this afternoon but after the summer. Then last...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u269	You've really run out of time. I'm sorry. We're running out of time. Thank you. A clock like that ticks pretty fast, doesn't it? I now give the floor to Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of GroenLinks, too, many thanks to the directors, but above all also to all employees of ministries, implementation organisations and everyone involved, who have worked hard in recent months to ensure that as many people as possible do not get into financial problems due to this crisis. I had a rather strong debate with the Minister and I was thinking about how that actually happened, because most of the time we can get along just fine with each other. I think it's because we might be doing a slightly different analysis of what's going to happen next. We believe, in line with the Borstlap Committee and everything that is happening, that this is the time to take definitive steps towards a safety net for all workers. That is why we are so pleased that the Minister is now taking these steps, for example, with the Tozo and with the TOFA, in a way that is far too limited. As a result, I sincerely do not understand that the choice is now being made not to move forward in the direction that has been taken and which we believe should be maintained in the next phase, precisely for that inclusive labour market. We would find that incredibly unfortunate. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas not all self-employed persons have good buffers and are therefore very vulnerable in these uncertain economic times;]] [[considers that a strong social safety net for self-employed workers is of great importance even after September;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the Temporary Bridging Scheme to independent entrepreneurs (Tozo),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35473-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u271	I very much hope that this motion will be adopted so that we can clarify independently entrepreneurs who face major financial problems if they do not receive benefits, even for the period after October.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u272	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Palland.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u273	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the directors for the open ear and eye they have had over the past period. Even now, during the debate, they have shown that again. I also congratulate the implementation organisations; I hope they will have the opportunity to take some peace in the summer recess. Then I would like to share one more concern, one encouragement and one thanks, but I will be very brief. We still have a concern about the effectiveness of the TVL, about the 30% turnover loss threshold and the possible inclusion of the NOW. We will await the development of the TVL and possibly come back to this with Economic Affairs. Then there's the incentive. Thank you to the Secretary of State for being in consultation with the surrounding countries, Belgium and Germany, for a solution. We know that there is indeed a living wage that they can claim, but Belgium and Germany are at the heart of entrepreneurship. The curve is that Belgians and Germans living in the Netherlands can make use of two schemes and that Dutch people can use zero schemes just across the border, except for the company credit. They don't get income support. It is good that we will be informed of this before 1 July. Finally, a word of thanks. There is still work to be done, but I am glad to hear that the cabinet is looking at more cyclical measures, because this crisis remains with us for a long time to look at part-time WW arrangements in cooperation with the social partners. To be continued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u274	Thank you. Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u275	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are cases in which economic operators have received a new payroll tax number through merger, acquisition or conversion of business form during the corona crisis;]] [[whereas these operators are not always eligible for the different schemes, such as the NOW;]] [[calls on the Government to deal generously with these exceptional situations and temporarily link old and new wage charging numbers so that it becomes clear that wages were actually paid by the company in question during the reference period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the SBI Code of ballooning is not eligible for aid;]] [[Considering that ballooning has stopped on a government charge;]] [[Whereas the Van Haga/Baudet motion (25295), No. 215), which called for a generous approach to the definition of SBI codes to be covered by the TOGS scheme, was adopted;]] [[calls on the Government to add the SBI Code for ballooning to the list of codes eligible for aid,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the SBI code of homework guidance is not eligible for aid;]] [[Whereas homework guidance has been discontinued by the authorities;]] [[Whereas the Van Haga/Baudet motion (25295), No. 215), which called for a generous approach to the definition of SBI codes to be covered by the TOGS scheme, was adopted;]] [[calls on the Government to add the SBI code for homework guidance to the list of eligible codes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35473-15]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35473-16]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35473-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u276	I understand that the last two motions belong to another ministry, but it's physically impossible for me to do this every time. So they automatically come to the lady and gentleman in question here. And then I would simply ask them to carry them through and in that way have Mr Wiebes give them an appreciation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u277	I'd like a brief interruption, because it's very tight in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u278	I get that. In my opinion, both sectors that are mentioned are entitled to NOW. I think it's a good thing there's no misunderstanding about that. Mr Van Hage's specific point concerns TOGS. I understand that, don't I? 'Cause for the NOW, they're just eligible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u279	Yeah, you're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u280	Thank you. Mr. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u281	Mr. Chairman. On 17 March, the Minister made a statement, and I quote, 'It is extremely important that people keep their jobs or their incomes.' The Netherlands is still in the same crisis as on 17 March, and the Minister now wants to see dismissal possible and people losing their income as a result. At least he doesn't want to, but he makes it possible. And the PVV doesn't want that pertinent. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas hundreds of thousands of workers and self-employed entrepreneurs are hard hit by the corona crisis and can barely cope with it;]] [[Whereas the objective of the second Emergency Jobs and Economy package should be to address as much as possible the negative financial impact of the Corona crisis on employees and self-employed entrepreneurs as far as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to include the dismissal penalty set out in the first aid package (NOW 1) in the second emergency package (NOW 2);]] [[calls on the government to immediately remove the partner income test in the Tozo 2 scheme, which means that manyzzp's are no longer entitled to financial compensation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Edgar Mulder and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35473-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u282	Thank you. Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u283	Thank you, Mr President. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Jetten c.s. motion (25295, No. 283) calls on the government to set as a condition for the extended NOW scheme that companies do not pay bonuses and dividends or buy their own shares for 2020 and 2021;]] [[whereas the government does not go beyond this condition for 2020 in the extended NOW regime and that the government therefore partly ignores the call of a parliamentary majority;]] [[Calls on the Government to make the non-payment of bonuses and dividends or the purchase of its own shares also for 2021 as a condition for the extended NOW scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Central Planning Bureau and the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau conclude that poverty will increase by a quarter without measures, in particular by reducing assistance since 2011;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a plan of action to prevent poverty from rising by a quarter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35473-19]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35473-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u284	Thank you. Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a motion on the importance of helping young people who are particularly hard hit. Many people lose their jobs if, for example, they have submitted a short-term and descending flex contract with Mr Gijs van Dijk. I also have a motion on the TOZO, so that self-employed people who have waited precisely because the partner test comes does not suffer. I understand that if you applied in May or April, that new rule will apply from 1 July. To make sure that you can always use the TOZO 1 for three months the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that some of the self-employed did not apply for the Tozo from the first month;]] [[Whereas, from June onwards, the Tozo will also include a partner test which will eliminate the eligibility of a group of self-employed persons;]] [[Whereas there is a group of self-employed persons who can therefore use the Tozo for less than three months;]] [[invites the Cabinet to enter into consultation with municipalities to ensure that self-employed persons who have applied for the Tozo from April or May will still have the opportunity to apply for it from March,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Tielen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35473-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u286	I have the impression that Mr Öztürk has a brief interruption. No?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u287	Mr. Chairman. And then retrain. I am really looking forward to the implementation of the entire work agenda and I am also looking forward to learning from the Dutch. I have asked before not to forget the position of self-employed people in this training. In the motion, together with my colleague Pieter Heerma, I would also like to pay attention to people who are now in the WW or in the assistance, so that they are helped enough. I too thank all the people at UWV, but also the municipalities, who have all worked with man and power to implement the rules for flex workers, the NOW, the TOZO, under very difficult conditions and under enormous time pressure. That deserves a big compliment. Many colleagues have rightly said that, and I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u288	Thank you. A brief interruption by Mr Öztürk?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u289	Yes. It's about those student entrepreneurs. In the first period, D66 asked questions. The answer is: we stick to the rules we have. So there isn't much progress. I'm about to file a motion. I would like to ask D66: if they really want to help those student entrepreneurs, because with that we can get the majority and help the student entrepreneurs, what questions does D66 still want to ask to the cabinet to make sure that these student entrepreneurs can be helped?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u290	That is up to Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u291	The complex thing is that it was not possible to do an intermediate form around the partner test. I am very sorry about that, but that is just the reality I have to deal with now. For this reason, I find it regrettable that the Secretary of State has indicated that, in my view, the Secretary of State himself also regretted that it does not fit in with the Act of Participation at this point, but also, for example, around 18 to 21, which Mr Gijs van Dijk asked for attention to. Then we really need to have a fundamental debate on this Participation Act. I like to have that debate. I would very much like to ask for things, but I'm not going to promise things here that apparently just can't with the current law. That is the problem which I believe I am facing, but so is Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u292	Thank you. Clear. Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u293	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank everyone. All civil servants in the municipalities, in the UWV but also in the government, who have worked hard in recent months to ensure that millions of people still had an income and still had a security. I would also like to thank the Cabinet, the Secretary of State and Minister who answered the questions. There were a lot of complaints. There were people in fear. People had footage of where it's going, and yet in recent months it's gone pretty well to take care of a lot of people. Hundreds of thousands of people have worked hard for that. On behalf of DENK, I would like to thank all those people for that. There were complaints that it sometimes took a little longer for municipalities. The Secretary of State has just answered that. Maybe she can tell us a little bit more about that. But there were also people who said: in the end it went well under these circumstances. Why don't you leave me alone with those student entrepreneurs? I made a plea, but I didn't get what we'd like to help the student entrepreneurs. That is why I have a motion that I would like to read out. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that student entrepreneurs under the age of 27 do not have access to the Tozo, but are referred to DUO to withdraw an additional loan;]] [[Whereas this group is also composed of independent entrepreneurs, has invested money and has a fixed burden on their companies;]] [[Whereas age discrimination is undesirable here too;]] [[Whereas this group is particularly difficult during the corona crisis and should therefore be protected;]] [[calls on the Government to adapt the conditions for the Tozo so that student entrepreneurs can also have faster access to this scheme if they operate a company of at least a substantial size to be determined,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35473-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u294	Thank you. Then I suspend for a few minutes, because the motions need to be reproduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u295	We have reached the point of answering the questions in the second period, including the appreciation of the motions tabled. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u296	Mr. Chairman. There are a few questions from the first period and questions from the second period, in particular from Mrs Tielen. The first was about the written declaration. It would actually be at the AO's this afternoon, but it has been postponed, so I'm giving you an answer now. I do not intend to suspend the written requirement any longer. There was initially a three-month delay. At the end of 2019 I informed you about this. As part of the emergency package, we extended it for another three months until 1 July. There has been a total of six months longer time to comply with the written requirement, so this must be settled by 1 July. That's the short answer. Six months extra time to settle the written requirement via e-mail, for example, has been a coulance when the WAB was introduced. But any more delay would get the tax authorities in trouble, so we can't honor that. The second question is about the ibo Part Time. The aim is for the answers to come before the summer, so that they can be taken into the AO this afternoon, which has now been postponed until after the summer. Mrs Tielen had asked in the first term whether companies should pay for the NOW 1.0 in December. Checkout of NOW 1.0 without applying for NOW 2.0 can be done from 7 October. Companies then have 24 weeks in principle to apply for confirmation, and 28 weeks when they are required to submit an audit report. It is about an amount above €100,000, I say out of my mind, or €125,000 subsidy. So you can do that from October 7th. Unfortunately, the letter on lifelong development comes after the summer. As I pointed out in the first term, this has to do with the management who is doing this, being very busy with other things, including the NOW and NL learning through. I hope you understand that. It's not like it's falling off the wagon. It would be nice if this could be taken together with the discussion on the working agenda of the social partners. From the first term comes the comment about Mr Thissen on the radio. This wasn't in a newspaper, it was on the radio. Now I try to follow a lot, but unfortunately I don't have the radio on all day. He said that if he were my advisor, he would advise me to provide structuralally EUR 500 million for education and lifelong development. So it is not about occasionally available money for this year, but about structurally available money. So the comparison is not entirely correct. And, of course, structuralally, we have money available for the STEP scheme. That's about 200 million euros from 2022. From the SLIM scheme comes EUR 50 million. In addition, we naturally have money for personal services by municipalities and the UWV. For the UWV this is 70 million euros and the amount for municipalities I do not know by heart, but that is also a fixed amount. There are also the training budget and the R&D funds. In short, I share Mr Thissen's view and there is also money available. If it has to be more, we will return to the work agenda in September. I'll get on the motions. On the motion in part No. 10 will enter the Secretary of State. The motion in part No. 11 belongs to Mr Gijs van Dijk and deals with the flexible shell. For the sake of clarity, I say that in the first period my answer was no, so I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u297	The motion in part No. 11 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u298	Against the motion in part No. 12, on the other hand, I'd like to say yes. So I'm gonna give it to you, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u299	The motion in part No. 12 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u300	Mrs Tielen's motion for a resolution 13, actually, is a security motion. I'll give you information first. So the most important change we have made in that 1.3 letter is: no longer maximizing on the January wage bill, but on the March wage bill. We finally signed up for 5,000 companies. 5,000 companies we have sent a letter stating that you were not eligible on the basis of the January wage bill, but perhaps so if we take the March wage bill. Whether these companies actually walk along and have been helped by this adjustment, we only see when it is established. And that can only happen from October 7th, when people have only used NOW 1.0 and later, if they also use NOW 2.0. That has to do with the fact that there is no more pre-emption, but only determination. So that makes it complicated to be able to follow it exactly. I would like to make a commitment to Mrs Tielen, rather than the motion on item No. 13, that at the opening of 2.0 we will indeed monitor those signals that are there about administrative problems in companies that apply for 2.0 and go to the UWV. Because 1.0 is now closed. I admit that we will also inform your Chamber about this, so that we can report back to your Chamber properly whether there are any such examples. I'd like to give you my word on that. Then I hope that Mrs Tielen will withdraw her motion or hold it; I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u301	Mrs Tielen will now make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u302	Of course, I had already said that it was a security motion. Let me hold the motion for a moment, because I like to be sure. Security is nice in these turbulent times, occasionally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u303	We all need security, so I understand that very well. But then you must not forget to extend it, too, Mrs Tielen. Otherwise, it disappears.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u304	At the request of Mrs Tielen, I propose her motion (35473, No. 13), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u305	I've been a Member of Parliament, too, so I know how it works. On the motion in part No. 14 the Secretary of State responds. I'll come to the motion in part No. 15, by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. This is a motion I'd like to dissuade. Why? The UWV has been very generous with the generous granting of those objections concerning companies that have received a different wage tax number. So this motion is superfluous and I advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u306	The motion in part No. 15 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u307	The motions on the documents Nos. I would like to refer 16 and 17 to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs. I will ask them to respond in writing. I cannot give an opinion on this. So I'll forward this to you. This is before the votes, so I think next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u308	Yeah, that's next week. The motions on pieces No. 16 and 17 will be submitted to the Ministry of Economic Affairs for assessment and there will undoubtedly be an appreciation from that Ministry for the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u309	Sure. The motion in part No. 18. Part of it's for me and part of it's for the Secretary of State. I'll do her anyway. Dissuade. We have had a lot of debate about the dismissal penalty. A few weeks ago, Mr Wilders himself tabled a motion. I didn't recommend it at the time. On the second point, that of the Secretary of State, on the Tozo, a motion was also tabled. That too has been dissuaded. So this motion is a repetition of what has been done in that debate and is thus again discouraged. Mr Mulder will not be surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u310	Motion in part No. 18: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u311	Same argument. The motion in part No. 19 by Mr Jasper van Dijk. The cabinet really believes that the Jetten motion was implemented, also by that link to the shareholders' meeting 2021. With that, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u312	Motion in part No. 19: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u313	The motion in part No. 20 does the Secretary of State. The motion in part No. 21 does the Secretary of State. The motion in part No. 22 also does the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u314	This brings us to the end of the Minister's response and appreciation of the motions. We wait until the speaker chair is provided with the necessary liquid to get it all clear and clean again. That is the case now and I shall give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u315	Mr President, thank you. For the sake of clarity, in order not to repeat the debate on the interruptions, I shall give an appreciation to the motions. Mrs Van Brenn's motion on item No. 10 on the AOW-right age, I advise against.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u316	The motion in part No. 10 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u317	The motion in part No. 14 I find immemorial and betrayal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u318	The motion in part No. 14 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u319	Yes, Mr Jasper van Dijk's motion on item No. 20 on poverty and a plan of action against it. Let me put it this way: in my opinion, Mr Jasper van Dijk and I sometimes think differently about things, but we are very much in agreement that we want to combat and reduce poverty. Now we are doing the necessary regular reports, for example the broad debt approach, for example child poverty, for example poverty. If Mr. Jasper van Dijk says: use a regular report to bring corona, to take new insights, then I give her judgment Chamber. But if I had to make something new on what's already there, I would have to give the other judgment, and I would regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u320	Let me take a look at Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u321	I'm willing to go along with the Secretary of State in this thought, but when does that plan of action come to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u322	So I'm not going to make a new plan of action, but I do want to do something else. In any case, I would like to take that step; perhaps we can approach each other there. I would like to embed the insights we now have from the corona crisis, for example the mayor's manifesto and the findings of the Halsema Group in the progress report of the letter on the broad debt approach. That's how I'd like to do it. Such a letter has recently been sent to the Chamber and I would also like to look for such a figure for poverty. I also had a debate in the First Chamber on the targets of child poverty. That's what we're going to report on, once every two years. But I don't want to generate an extra piece stream. But of course there are now insights, for example through the reports, which we need to respond to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u323	I doubt it, because I think it's a little too vague. If this motion is adopted, I would like the Secretary of State to state: okay, by that date you can see what the cabinet has done with the motion. I don't want it to disappear anywhere on page 183 of a progress report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u324	They are broad progress reports, but they are not that broad, but then I say we try again next time. Then I'm gonna advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u325	The vote will take place at the next voting time. 20 indeed dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u326	Then the motion to part No. 21. I do, however, carry out motions by Mr Jasper van Dijk which have not been tabled. Maybe that's an idea for next time. No, I'm kidding. The Van Weyenberg/Tielen motion in part No. 21, I'm judging Room. And the Öztürk motion in part No. Twenty-two, I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u327	The motion in part No. 21 gets judgment room. The motion in part No. 22 is not recommended. That's how we ended up... not coming to the end. Excuse me. There is another interruption by Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u328	I received a very good opinion from Mr Van Weyenberg. The cabinet will respond to the reports of the planning agencies SCP and CPB. Can the reaction to the motion be included in that reaction?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u329	I think that's a very nice gesture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u330	Well, then again it is Mr Van Weyenberg who arranges it today!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u331	Then I'll give her judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u332	The motion in part No. 20 still gets judgment Room, that's what I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-2.u333	Then I can at least say that next Tuesday will be voting on the motions and amendments that have been tabled. That brings us to the end and I am just being whispered that we are suspending until 3.30 p.m.
