ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the infrastructure and water resources budget (35570-XII). The question we are discussing today is the answer given by the government to the first-term questions. I would, of course, like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water Management.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u2	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Oh, the chair is still moving.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u4	Yeah, it's just a search.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u5	Yeah, this is a good height. Mr. Chairman. When I look around me like this, the first thing that comes to mind is: how time flies by incredibly quickly! The Secretary of State and I have been here for the fourth time with a budget. The first was three weeks after our arrival. At that time, we had to deal with all the files. At that time, Members of Parliament had all been working on a number of the subjects much longer than we have. Then came the first own budget of this cabinet. Last year we got good on steam. And now it is once again the last budget of this missionary cabinet. That is why I would like to begin by expressing my thanks and appreciation to all the members of this committee, including those who cannot be here today. We know that it will be the last budget debate for some of them. I would like to mention Mr Dijkstra, Mr Ziegs, Mr Schonis, Mr Van Eijs, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Laçin, who have already indicated that they will stop after these elections. But also all the other committee members have in recent years done that from their own passion, passion and ideological background, they have devoted themselves to the various subjects that fall within ours, Stientje and me. This applies to all Members of Parliament, from a to z. In this context, it is from Aalst to Zienings. They've all been trying so hard. It is appropriate to start with road safety, a subject on which I have always had the opportunity to experience a very good constructive cooperation with your Chamber. We are all well aware of how Mr Stoffer began his input yesterday with a very profound and moving experience in his hometown of Elspeet, where a family lost a daughter years ago in a tragic accident and recently a grandson in an accident. I don't know any words that could describe such unbearable sorrow. Exactly this kind of terrible experience is why we have all chosen road safety as a top priority since 2017. We must do everything we can to prevent this kind of suffering. Again, over the past few years, I have experienced broad support from your Chamber for improving road safety. I would like to thank you very much for that. We've been able to take some nice steps. Think, for example, of the ban on bedding on bicycles. In the meantime, the MONO campaign is well established. Think also of the Strategic Road Safety Plan, where we work together with the provinces, municipalities and many social partners from the police and the ANWB to the Cyclists Association, insurers, SWOV and so on. Of course, it is also not unimportant that several Members have announced yesterday that we have made EUR 500 million available as co-financing to invest together with all those partners in safer roads, intersections and so on. I would also like to take advantage of this last budget to remind you of all the individual initiatives you have taken from the Chamber. I think it is very special that almost every Member of Parliament has come up with new ideas in one policy area. Mr Dijkstra, for example, tabled an amendment to ensure that a knowledge network could be set up with 10 million to help municipalities draw up risk analyses. That is a very important step to be able to work risk-driven. Mr Van Aalst (PPE). - (NL) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Van Aalst on his excellent report. Mrs Postma has drawn up an initiative paper against traffic hoods. I will respond to that together with Mr Grapperhaus. Mrs Kröger has worked tirelessly for road safety, especially around schools. Mr Laçin came with a charter for pedestrians. That's something he specifically called attention to. Mr Van Dijk consistently called for attention to be paid to the working conditions and road safety of the carriage of goods by lorry drivers. Mr Schonis has made an explicit effort to improve the assessment of driving capacity. Yesterday, Mrs Van der Graaf presented concrete proposals for improving road safety around schools. I will deal with this later. Mr Stoffer, with his technical background, has focused on the effective separation of lanes. Finally, Mrs Van Brenk. I just saw her in the wings. It cannot now participate in this budget debate because of parliamentary obligations. I thank her for all her plans to improve the road safety of senior citizens. This is just an anthology, because you've all done a lot more in recent years. But when I was thinking about it, I thought, "Everyone's been working on it." I will deal with the substantive questions on this subject later. Before I start answering the questions of the Chamber, I would like to make a few preliminary remarks and comment on the topical and urgent debate. Then I will divide my speech into four blocks. I shall begin again with road safety, then, wide, mobility, roads and maritime. Of course, we always have the storage bin. Mr. Chairman. Our country is naturally in the grip of the coronavirus. Unfortunately, the freedom we were used to is no longer there since March. We're limited in our freedom of movement. We work at home as much as possible and we suddenly only talk to family, friends and colleagues digitally instead of having fun at home, in a restaurant or in a pub. Our outings and holidays are limited or not possible at all. We notice the effects of this daily in traffic monitoring. It is quieter on the road, especially during peak hours. It is quieter in the ov, quiet in the air and also on the water, as far as pleasure boating is concerned. At the same time, there are still a lot of people working in our sectors, under difficult circumstances. I call the truck drivers, the people in construction, in ports, public transport, traffic management, Rijkswaterstaat, the ILT and the people working in air cargo. All these people hold the Netherlands day out, day out. I'd just like to point out right away that truck drivers obviously deserve access to plumbing. They deserve a clean toilet and a hot meal. Our road inspectors and the people in the O.V. just need to be able to do their job safely. The Secretary of State and I have visited them regularly in the past year, in the beginning live and later digitally, to give them a heartbeat. Because it is thanks to them, to their commitment and adaptability, that the shelves in the shops remain filled and that people and goods come safely into place. Mr. Chairman. This budget of the Ministry of IenW is therefore in a very different light from all the previous ones. In the short term, there is a great deal of uncertainty and we are trying to support the sectors in particular in the challenges associated with this corona crisis. In order to support the construction sector, we are accelerating our investments this year. We are bringing forward EUR 1.9 billion of projects. In this way, we will try to keep the people in construction working at least at this difficult time and, when the crisis is behind us, we will be able to get out of the business as well as possible. Because investment in our roads, railways and waterways remains necessary. If we can get back to normal and restore the economy, we will have to rely on more mobility again. Mr Dijkstra mentioned this in his speech. This was also written by the KiM, our Knowledge Institute for Mobility Policy, last week in the Key Figures Mobility 2020. Moreover, there are expected to be 18.4 million Dutch in 2030. This will also increase the use of our infrastructure. Because of the long preparation time required for our projects, we cannot afford to lose sight of that long term. This means, first of all, that we must ensure that our infrastructure, which is world-class according to the international lists, remains world-class. Then we know that there is work to be done, because many of our bridges, tunnels and locks age at a rapid pace, as many of you have said. That too is a common thread in my ministry, because at the beginning of this period we have already discussed the need for more attention to be paid to the maintenance of infrastructure. That might be less sexy, but it's very necessary. In the coming year, too, a large part of our budget will go there. For the Secretary of State and me together, this is EUR 3.1 billion. Many of you have already mentioned it: this will increase in the coming years. We come to talk more and more about this at the NO MIRT. Before the end of the year you will also receive the validation of the table of contents of Rijkswaterstaat, carried out by PWC and Rebel Group. Mr. Chairman. The expectation I mentioned for increasing traffic intensity in the long term also means that we must now continue to expand our road network. Much has happened there over the past three years. We hope to be able to make some important agreements with the regional partners this year. With the new nitrogen policy we are building on a safe and accessible Netherlands. Then I mention projects such as the Blankenburg connection, the A16 Rotterdam and the A1 Apeldoorn-Azelo, which are being worked hard on. In addition, we have also been able to open a lot of beautiful projects, such as the N18 Varsseveld-Enschede, the A9, around Badhoevedorp and the Gaasperdammertunnel in Amsterdam, where we can now really cut almost all ribbons. These are projects where not only traffic improved but also the environment. Several Members have asked questions about this, including Mrs Kröger and Mr Wassenberg. We will talk about this in detail at the MIRT memo meeting at the beginning of December. A major improvement, which I would like to mention, is that we are transforming the Infrastructure Fund into the Mobility Fund, allowing us to look in full at what is the best solution for accessibility. If the First Chamber agrees to that, hopefully soon, we will be able to work in this way from 1 January. Then there was also good news for air freight. Mr Amhaouch also referred to this. I, too, am very pleased that there is now a proposal whereby air cargo is exempted from the Air Traffic Tax Act. This is very important for this small segment of aviation in which a lot of people work and on which a number of very important sectors depend, not least medical freight transport, for which air cargo is an essential link. Mr. Chairman. One more general point: climate adaptation. Of course, we are going to discuss this separately in the Water legislative consultation, but I would also like to mention the important change in direction over the last three years: not only protection against floods, but also a concrete approach to drought and extreme weather. I also mention, of course, the major international climate adaptation report on 25 January, worldwide, which I am very much looking forward to. In addition, I expect that the cybersecurity of our infrastructure will still be addressed in the Water legislative consultation. This also applies to the fight against legionella, to which Mr Ziengs drew attention yesterday on the basis of his own initiative paper from 2015. As a result of Mr Graus' contribution, I would like to emphasise the following. He was talking about our drinking water failing. I really want to correct that. I would like to confirm once again that our drinking water companies have been responsible for high-quality drinking water for many years, but we can also discuss this in the Water legislative consultation. Mr President, those were my introductory sentences. I would now like to start on the road safety block. I have just said a few things about our common motivation and efforts for road safety, and I am also pleased that we have already achieved a great deal together. Distraction behind the wheel and on the bike we tackle with the MONO campaign and the ban on apps on bicycles. We warn young people about the danger of alcohol or nitrous oxide in traffic. I do not see Mr Wassenberg now, but I shall look at Mr Van Raan. I expect a hugely warm support from the Party for Animals for Team Alert's campaign that is specifically focused on the balloons. So no balloons, Mr. Van Raan, and certainly not behind the wheel. Young people are being reminded of this in this campaign today, because nitrous gas use is really an increasing problem. Many young people still think that such a balloon in the car is innocent, but it is a really dangerous development that many municipalities also have in their stomachs. So I think the campaign "Ride Balloon Free" is really something for you to join. The slogan is: Don't become a clown in traffic. The campaign is totally aimed at making young people realize that the use of nitrous oxide in traffic is simply impossible and not normal. The campaign focuses not only on drivers who use nitrous oxide, but also on passengers in the car, because research by TeamAlert shows that young people often don't talk to each other about their dangerous behavior. This campaign therefore also aims to encourage passengers to take their responsibility and address the driver when he intends to use nitrous oxide behind the wheel. It's a very good thing Team Alert is launching that campaign today. Of course, we mainly invest in safe roads, roadsides, cycle paths and roundabouts, with special attention to road safety around schools. We help older people to continue cycling for as long as possible and to do so safely with the campaigns around "Backstage." We are drawing up new rules for light electric vehicles, where safety always comes first, of course. We're working on that. We must also remember that provinces and municipalities are working hard to reduce the number of victims on provincial and municipal roads, because that is where most accidents happen. With the Strategic Road Safety Plan and the risk inventories in municipalities and provinces, we are now going to the next phase, that of implementation. More than 200 applications came in from all over the country for more safe crossings, cycle paths and roundabouts. If after the corona crisis the traffic on our roads increases again, that safe infrastructure is actually more important than ever. I have decided to extend the co-financing for provinces and municipalities to address those dangerous traffic situations next year. In 2021, we will make an additional EUR 100 million available for this, in addition to the EUR 100 million already available for 2020-2021. Despite the fact that it was busier on our roads and bike paths last year than the year before, we saw a small drop in the number of road deaths in 2019: a very small and very careful step in the right direction, but we still have a long and difficult road to go, and that is a road that we have to walk together. Let me now turn to a number of questions that have been raised on this point. A response to the six-point plan drawn up by the Christian Union with the VVD has been requested. Mrs Van der Graaf has also asked to start a pilot with, for example, game technology. First of all, thank you very much for the plan, because I also think that a safe school environment is very important. I work together with the co-governments and the social parties in various ways. I also really see your plan as a support for the discussions I have with all those parties and also as an encouragement to move forward. Let me turn to the specific points. You propose a pilot with gamification to stimulate safe walking and cycling to school. I think innovative proposals are always welcome, so I would like to explore your proposal for gamification with the fellow governments and then we will also look at the possibility of starting a pilot to promote safe walking and cycling to school. I do think that it is often more appealing to children when it is in a game form than when it is in a different form. Then there are points two and three: stimulating school areas and school streets. At the moment I finance fifteen pilots from the F10 municipalities, which have the bike at the top, focused on a safe school environment. There are also school streets and safe school routes. The proceeds or results of these pilots will be available to all municipalities. I have already made money available for road safety around schools in the first tranche of the drive for road safety, so that is what we are really going to do. Then you asked about the consultation with the navigation services. I am talking to the navigation services to make agreements on the application of the available data they have. During the summer, bilateral talks were held with market leaders on school areas, routing, as well as on the techniques and dates they use to provide route advice. Of course, navigation services all have their own focus and market share. Some focus specifically on the Netherlands, others more on the whole of Europe. It is important to have sufficient reliable data, because you should not take any risks with it. The digital advice provided by these navigation services must, above all, be very appropriate and up-to-date with the actual situation on the road. This requires time and also effort from fellow governments. I'm going to talk to them, too, to come to those appointments. I honestly expect that we will be able to reach the first agreements next spring, and I will, of course, inform you of that. Then the points five and six: awareness among young people about smartphone use and group pressure. In several ways, I focus on raising awareness among young people. In the MONO campaign, for example, special attention is paid to young cyclists. We're funding risk awareness campaigns for Team Alert, as I just mentioned about nitrous oxide. We also do this together with Safe Traffic Netherlands. I have just mentioned the group pressure as an important aspect of it, so we will pay particular attention to that. We will, of course, report on this in the usual reports. Ms. Postma has called attention to appende drivers. I share that concern about distraction from unsafe phone usage 100% with Mrs Postma. That is why last year we extended the ban on handheld phone use to all mobile electronic devices. This also makes it possible to maintain with cameras. The police can now fine someone who gets caught in the keeper and thereby endangers traffic, on the basis of Article 5 of the Road Traffic Act. A ban on operating a telephone in a holder is complicated for several reasons. For example, is there not going to be any other dangerous behaviour, such as tapping a phone on a lap? It's hard to maintain, because the police can't tell if someone's working on the air conditioning or the radio. That's why the MONO movement is so important, because it's about what you do and what you don't do on the road, regardless of the device. We also focus on the senders of messages. We also focus on the role of the employer, because you will remember the research that indicated that as many as 15% of employers expect the employee not only to read a message while driving but also to reply. Totally irresponsible. In MONO, we are working very hard on this. But I can imagine where your concern is, Mrs. Postma, because I understand that very well. Article 61a on telephone usage will be reviewed in 2021. It seems to me that it is important to take into account the points you have raised in this evaluation, and to take into account the aspect of whether we should change that if we are going to amend that law. Mr Stoffer said that the Minister had taken good steps, but that the figures are not yet good enough. He asked me to ensure that provinces and municipalities are able to carry on with the implementation programmes to tackle these regional bottlenecks and that there is sufficient structural funding for them. I'm sure I'd like to make sure of that. We also fund the SPV's knowledge network to disseminate knowledge and best practices. There is now also a contact person at the VNG who is specifically committed to stimulating risk analysis and implementation programmes. And consultants of Safe Traffic Netherlands are used to inform municipalities. During the administrative consultation on road safety held on 4 November, we agreed with the co-governments that the risk analyses and implementation plans will be ready by the end of 2021. Many municipalities, especially some smaller municipalities, have been delayed, partly due to the conditions in the corona crisis, but by the end of next year it will all have to be ready. So municipalities get a little more time for that. A State contribution of 500 million is already available until 2030. Some of this money is already being made compulsory this year. That's what I just reported. In doing so, I have chosen to bring forward resources to accelerate investment in road safety. Of course, I would very much like to clean that up for the years after, but it is obviously up to a next cabinet to consider even more structural means for road safety. Mr Graus has asked for attention to be paid to grids on roads to prevent collisions with wildlife. Ah, that's where he just came in! Mr. Graus, I'm talking about the wildlife collisions. IenW is keen to prevent road safety and animal welfare from being compromised. Almost 600 measures have been taken in the framework of the multiannual programme Escape to ensure safe crossing of animals. Then think of the fauna passages and the ecoducts. In addition, we also place grids along the road to lead the animals to those crossing places. That's what you called it. We do so at locations where they report that there are many animals on or along the road. We do this risk-driven for all national roads with the aim of using the available resources as efficiently as possible. So there is also plenty of attention to the grids. Mr. Chairman. Those were the questions about road safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u6	Good afternoon, Mr. Graus. You just arrived. What were you gonna say?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u7	I wanted to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u8	No. I'm gonna go check on the MPs first. I actually want to make the proposal: four interruptions in two. I just did that in the Social Affairs budget, and that went very well. So that's eight questions. It's up to you to decide who. Anyway, I just wanted to say that. The Minister also congratulated Members of Parliament, including you and Mr Van Aalst. You missed all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u9	No, I didn't miss that. I listened in on the app.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u10	Really? Oh, you've been listening. Good. The first issue is road safety, no, road safety. That's done. You want to ask a question about that, Mr. Graus?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u11	Long live the Second Chamber app! I can just follow everything, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u12	Still, it's nice to have you in the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u13	Sure. I'm here now, aren't I? When I hear my subjects are coming, I'll be there soon. In a rush. Madam President, I have a question for the Minister. I had also asked about the boarding under guardrails for motorcyclists. In some places, they're already there. When a biker slides down and goes through such a pin of the guardrail with his hands or leg, it rips off his arm or leg. It happens. That kind of boarding can stop it. Then they also develop contusions and possible fractures, but at least they don't lose limbs. In a lot of turns, even in my surroundings, that boarding is already placed, but why isn't that happening nationwide? Then there's the animal hit-and-run. I'm very happy with those grids. On the Veluwe they have been very successful. But I also mention those little reflectors along the side of the road. They're relatively cheap. They're not used everywhere either. I don't understand. 'Cause if you shine the headlights on it, the animals startle and then they run away. So that's also a deterrent that we can use more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u14	Sure. You can see that a lot of provinces and municipalities use it. That is quite simple: a small pole with a kind of rotating mill on it. When a car shines on there with its headlights and there's a little wind, it reflects all over the place. The fact that it is not one quiet stripe of light prevents animals from being blinded. That is certainly looked at, but that is often not very practical at the national roads. That's more like the county roads. But we have a lot of attention to that. As far as motorcyclists are concerned, I think we have noted some things in the written reply. In any case, we are in constant contact with the KNMV and with the Motorcyclists Action Group. With them we have made an agreement that we regularly get an update from them if they think that there is a dangerous situation somewhere, specifically for motorcyclists, who of course make some other demands than motorists. So there is certainly attention to that, especially with the bikers themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u15	I thank the Minister for her fine words. It's good to see how everyone here has been so busy with that dream of road safety. I have received a nice answer from the Minister, but I still have some questions about that. I was concerned about clarity. The minister says if the phone's on the lap, it's okay. But I've just been told by the police that they can't do that and that the cameras will check that too. We have this balance between Article 5, putting it at risk, and the sensitivity to addiction to the telephone. If we look around here, we'll also see that half of it is on his phone. We're all inclined to grab him, and so are we in the car. The use of the phone for example in traffic jams, where you unfortunately only progress with a snail goose, is not dangerous within the meaning of Article 5, so you cannot be fined if the phone is in the holder, but it indicates how often people use that phone. My question is whether the evaluation of this article will be able to take a good look at all these conditions that are relevant, because I am afraid that otherwise we will not have enough work to do on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u16	I certainly don't want to confuse that. I gave the example of the phone on the lap because people think: no one can see that, then I'll get away with it. But because the police can also look inside people with cameras at a corner or sometimes from a passing coach, they are no longer safe there. I understand exactly what you're saying: it's about the danger. You want to get a good look at that one. I can only assure you that we will take all these aspects well into account in the evaluation of the relevant piece of legislation, because we have the same objective, namely to prevent people from creating dangerous situations because the phone is in a holder. So we're just gonna take that with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u17	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u18	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the mobility block. As I said earlier, the Netherlands is one of the countries with the best infrastructure in the world. In order to keep it that way, we still have a lot of work to do in the coming years. What Mr Dijkstra said is true: mobility brings people freedom. I think that we are all in favour of this and that we may be looking forward to it more than ever at the moment. We also know that a large part of our infrastructure dates back to the 1960s and 1970s, and is therefore in need of a lot of refurbishing at a rapid pace. If we are working on this, we are also going to prepare the roads, railways and waterways for the future. We try to make them safer, more sustainable, more resistant to extreme weather, equipped with smarter mobility, more cybersecure and more efficient in maintenance. Although we saw the wave of management and maintenance coming, we didn't know exactly how high that wave would be. For this reason we have in recent years reviewed the entire maintenance system of Rijkswaterstaat and by the way ProRail too, the Secretary of State will say a little more about this later. That exercise is now complete. I'll inform your room before the end of the year about the check, about the second opinion, of PwC and Rebel. Because we see the wave getting bigger and it's getting closer, we're also getting firmer. I have already invested heavily in recent years, and we are adding a risk reserve of EUR 470 million to this budget. In the short term, I see it as an important task to keep the construction working as well. That is why we have accelerated additional maintenance work for EUR 44 million. There are all kinds of things in it, for example the accelerated replacement of traditional lighting with LED lighting, where you also create a win-win situation. I also agreed with the Minister of Finance that we should bring forward a further EUR 700 million in maintenance work in the Spring Paper. This will enable us to cope with the wave over the next few years. The decisions on what is necessary to manage that wave in the long term, we are preparing, with the screening of the table of contents, for a next cabinet. A number of questions have been asked. First of all, what is the effect of corona on mobility? Do we need less investment in infrastructure? The current mobility developments resulting from the COVID-19 crisis are, of course, not relevant to the post-crisis situation. During the start of this spring's intelligent lockdown, traffic intensity, and hence traffic congestion, fell on the main road network to a percentage of between 35% and 50% of the 2019 level. This is mainly because, of course, we have worked a lot at home in a short time. Since then, traffic intensity has been partially restored. We are now at about 90% of the level of September 2019. Fortunately, the traffic pressure remained low. There were considerably fewer traffic jams than before the pandemic. Of course, you can explain this congestion reduction because people work more at home, but also because of a better distribution of the movements. What will be the structural effects now? We don't know. That is, of course, still unclear. The Secretary of State and I are committed to really stimulating homework, but of course we cannot expect people to continue working forever at home as much as they do now. Now it is said: work at home unless there is really no other way. We hope to work home one or two days a week. I think that's real. You can expect that from people. Of course, we cannot assume that it will remain structuralally five days a week, that, as with us at the office, people may have a team meeting once a month. That's not sustainable. In addition, we also see a trend that people are increasingly shopping online. Mobility is also growing enormously as a result of all those packages delivered at home. Where someone first went to town and came home with a few shopping bags, all kinds of separate packages are now delivered at home. The Secretary of State will also say something about this in the context of innovative urban logistics, but that transport is of course also about our national roads. With the successor of the NMCA in 2021, we are therefore adding an uncertainty exploration, which should provide insight into possible long-term effects of that crisis on mobility. The current expectation is that the long-term impact of COOVID-19 will be limited. For example, in the latest forecast, the KiM shows that by 2025 public transport is likely to return to its 2019 level. We hope so, of course. You are now seeing a shift from collective transport to individual transport. You can see that people are afraid of the dv and therefore prefer to get in their own car or on a bike. Of course, the latter is fine. The KiM therefore expects public transport to recover by 2025 and the traffic on the road increased by 5% to 10% by that time. So the homework effect is taken into account again, not the homework effect of today but the homework effect of one or two days. Then there is still a very big task to be done. This will, of course, also vary from one region to another. We will also continue to see differences between urban areas and rural areas. But it is very important that we implement our investment programme and that we continue to launch new projects in the future. In particular, the Secretary of State will come to talk about maintaining the supply of the national and regional Ov system. There are also a number of questions about this. I'm doing a little bit of mobility right now. I'm just getting it all mixed up. Mr Van Dijk asked: what is the Minister going to do about social abuses in road transport, for example, about spending the weekend rest in the cabin? Will the ILT maintain more? We share the appreciation for the work of the drivers. It is very important that they are treated with the respect they deserve so that they can continue to do their work in a responsible manner. As I said at the beginning of my speech, this includes road-based sanitation, but also, of course, facilities for the companies where these drivers have to load and unload. So I will only address them once again: make sure that the drivers have an open door and receive them with open arms, I would say. The sector has agreed this year on the availability of sanitary facilities. They're contained in a covenant. I call on all the road restaurants, service stations and companies supplied by our professional drivers to continue to make their sanitary facilities available. I also refer to the employers' campaign, 'a clean toilet for everyone', which calls for attention to be paid to this issue. Then specifically about enforcement. Mr Van Dijk had also asked questions about this. Of course, the ILT maintains compliance with driving and rest periods. Of course, that 45 hours of rest is not allowed in the cabin. In 2018, when we really started doing this, the ILT held a flyer action. Since then, a small 1,000 checks on weekly rest have been carried out. ILT does this through risk analyses, so that capacity can be used as efficiently as possible. A large number of fine reports have emerged from this. For the people who regularly sit on Twitter: I can recommend "inspector road transport." That's a nice twitter account to follow, where you can see that these inspectors are on top of it every day, whether it's tacograph fraud or whatever for offense. Every once in a while, you're really scared of what they come across.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u19	Are you still working on the subject of mobility?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u20	Perhaps I can say that in the coming years we are going to realize 2,400 additional truck parkings, which are of course very important for that. 220 of these have been achieved this year. 1,000 will be realized until 2022. The remaining 1,180 will reach 2024 in the period. So they're working hard on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u21	Yeah? Have you had all the questions on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u22	It is Mr Van Dijk's.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u23	Maybe it's okay if the Minister rounds this off. Then you will have the opportunity to ask a question, Mr. Van Dijk. Or were you done with the mobility component?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u24	Yeah, and then we go to the roads.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u25	Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let's talk about the plumbing. We're still getting a lot of signals from drivers that they're gonna get into trouble. They're just tricky problems, if you have to stop somewhere and can't use anything. I understand that there is a covenant and that we encourage parties to make it possible. Can the Minister himself take another step to improve the situation for the whole country? 'Cause we're getting the signals all the time now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u27	I'm always open to good ideas to do more about it. I didn't ask for attention until recently in a movie; also in the spring. By the way, it worked well then, we heard. The joint effort then led to people being able to use the toilet again. During the work visits I made at the time, we now do everything digitally, but then physically also asked: what about the drivers, where do they drink their coffee and so on? I have just called attention to it, but I will gladly continue to do so in the near future. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u28	Yeah? Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u29	Then it's about enforcement. It is indeed a good thing that the Minister said at the outset, when she started, that we are really going to maintain safety, conditions for drivers, weekend rest and sleeping in the cabin. Will the ILT continue to maintain at this level? There have now been 1,000 inspections. What can we expect from the ILT for the coming year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u30	As you know, the ILT works at risk. I have just spoken to drivers' representatives who said that we see far too little of it. Part of the supervision takes place administratively, so drivers do not notice all of that. That happens on the basis of samples and then the entire administration is vetted. If a company was checked last year and it was all top-notch, you'd rather focus your attention on the companies you're thinking of: they didn't have it all right for each other. So we're trying to be as risk-oriented as possible. We have good contacts. The European dome in this area, the ECR, is also in the Netherlands. We compare closely the way in which monitoring is carried out in neighbouring countries. That's still risk-driven. If it takes a tooth... we've recently seen that the number of inspections hasn't been made. I call upon the Inspector-General to do so, and I expect it to be achieved next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u31	Mrs. Postma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u32	In front of me are the ladies of the pitfalls. I hear the minister talking in one to two days' work at home. That's a missed opportunity. There should be more. Families often stay home on Wednesdays and Fridays. Those are the days when we don't see much rush. We see the problem Monday morning, Tuesday morning, Thursday morning and evenings and then Friday evening. Wouldn't it be much stronger if we started to avoid rushing through flexible working hours at the office? So the office more as a meeting place and not necessarily that mandatory Monday morning meeting at the office at 9.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u33	Totally. That's what the Secretary of State and I do. It's not just about working at home, it's about spreading over the day. It's an en-en-story. There are very good examples in education, where you can take a bit out of the rush with a bit later or earlier start. The same applies to offices. In the end, it is again the employer who holds the key. If the employer continues to expect everyone to be at the same time for the first team meeting at the office on Monday morning, the individual employee does not have much choice. Corona has brought it into a rapid state of affairs. Together with colleagues from Social Affairs and Employment and EZK, we are discussing with employers how to spread this in the best possible way: to hold on to an important piece of work at home and to see at what time. So I'll tell you all about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u34	Thank you. This is already very hopeful. I understood from the letter we received this morning that for the MIRT there will be an overview of the appointments that are all there. I can't wait to see how that becomes concrete. These kinds of arrangements are interesting. We know that the Amhaouch motion made sure that the Secretary of State near Nijmegen started working on that successful project, bringing 30% of the people from the hypersit to the train. It is precisely this regional approach that I think is very successful, but I would like to see it more concretely and also quantified. Is that what we get for the MIRT?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u35	Well, not for the MIRT. We are going to agree on it in the various regions during this MIRT round. There's a difference. In one region the problem is greater than in the other. One region is farther than the other. But you can see that all the regions are now enthusiastic about it. You mention the example of Nijmegen, but the Breikers from the Amsterdam region are also a very successful example, with many companies showing their good side and taking part in the mobility issue. Well, that depends a little bit. One region is farther than the other. The regions are all working on it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u36	Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I shall continue with Mr Gijs van Dijk's question on truck drivers. On the one hand, we all recognise the importance of freight transport and of truck drivers. On the other hand, we all agree that they should not be in their cabin for 24 hours seven days a week. As a committee, we received a petition from two road restaurants a few weeks ago. They say: we can set up our restaurant in such a way that it is coronaproof. Now they have to take the food to their cabin and sit there too long. Is it possible, like other countries, to make an exception for Germany and France to see if they can do so in the Netherlands, so that we can coronaproof the truck drivers a bit and so that they can eat from each other outside their cabin at a safe distance? I ask the Minister whether she is prepared to look into the discussions she is having, so that we can give the drivers a little more attention, because their situation is simply not to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u38	I get regular reports of that from drivers. One likes it and says he likes to retreat into his cabin, the other has big problems with it. I understand that's very different. I am quite prepared to discuss this with the various representatives, and I think that you are also referring to the delegations of, for example, the trade unions, to hear how big the problem is and whether we should do more about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u39	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u40	I'll get to the roads. Early this month, the Knowledge Institute Mobility came up with new figures. It is expected to be around 5% to 10% more busy on the road by 2025 than in 2019. That is even if we go through a deep valley economically. It has been taken into account that by then we will probably still work one or two days a week at home and also go on the road more spread out. I'll tell Mrs. Postma that last one. So the KiM already takes that into account. Next week, for the first time, we're all going to run the BO MIRT digitally. That's also a unique thing, not very convenient, but we're going to see it. There too, we are going to try to reduce mobility and not to sit unnecessarily with people in one room. We'll make further arrangements together for the period after corona. Of course, we all hope that it will come as soon as possible. Then, of course, it's not about working at home all week, but about one or two days a week. On the projects we are working on, we will of course return to the note-taking meeting at the beginning of December. Mr Graus had asked how the congestion pressure for corona had already increased. Traffic congestion on the main road network increased by 14.2% in 2019. This was mainly due to an increase in traffic congestion on the main road network. The main reason for this increase in traffic has simply been the growth of the economy. In 2019, this growth was 1.8%. The increase in employment has caused this additional growth. Then a point where many MPs will rise up when this word falls. That's the word "Westerscheldetunnel." Several MPs have spoken about the Westerschelde tunnel. Mr Van Dijk and Mr Laçin have tabled an amendment on this subject. I have outlined in the written set of answers the backgrounds and the origins of the toll. Just before the people at home: the province of Zeeland owns the Westerschelde tunnel and is responsible for the tolling. This summer, the province estimated that EUR 400 million would be needed to abolish the toll. I would just like to point out in your direction that the desire to abolish this toll by means of this kind of sums seems to me to be more apt for a future cabinet formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u41	I see people want to interrupt, but I actually want the Minister to finish this part first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u42	Shall I finish the questions first? I have nothing more to say about the Westerschelde tunnel.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u43	Do you have any other points in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u44	We'll weigh on the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u45	I see Mr Graus. I would suggest that you conclude this. Mr Graus, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mrs Van der Graaf may then intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u46	Mr Schonis asked if I would undertake to comply with the agreements of the Climate Agreement on payment for use and whether we are on course to introduce road pricing in 2025. The Climate Agreement has agreed to investigate three variants of payment according to usage for the upcoming cabinet formation. On 16 October the Secretary of State for Finance sent the Chamber the interim report with results of the investigation. There is also an official quickscan on the technological and implementation aspects. This shows that the introduction by 2025 is not possible. The quickscan shows that introduction takes at least nine years. I only refer to those investigations. In an in-depth investigation by KPMG, this is discussed in more detail. It looks at the different phases and deadlines. In addition to KPMG's research into technical and implementation aspects, there is also a study of the income effects of SZW. The Chamber will, I understand, receive the final report by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u47	I just asked the minister to finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u48	For the block weighing, this is it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u49	Then I have Mr Graus, then Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mrs Van de Graaf and Mr Schonis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u50	The rest will all join the NO MIRT.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u51	It was about the traffic jams. I believe that if the flow is faster, there will also be fewer congestion. That's what you used to get in high school physics, in vwo. That makes sense. I wonder how the Minister rhymes with this. In fact, I believe that this has to do with the excessive number of speed limits. People go all over the anchors. They are all afraid to receive the high fines we impose in the Netherlands. I think all this has to do with you getting cumulative delays. Cumulative delay causes traffic jams. One and one is two. The Minister could do something about that: the flow has to be much faster. I notice that in Germany a file has been solved much faster, if there is any traffic. That could be investigated. I've never investigated that. I live on the German border and I drive a lot on the German highways. My expertise is that if there's anything that's solved before. The flow needs to be improved. For example, you notice it in a city like Berlin. There are also speed limits in Berlin, but everything continues. If you want to go from one side of The Hague to another, you're on your way for an hour. That's just terrible. Something's not right with our infrastructure and our flow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u52	I very much agree with Mr Graus that the flow is very important. That's better for everyone. It is better for the reliability of travel time. It is also better for the environment, because this constantly increasing and slowing down causes more emissions and costs more fuel. That's all wrong. That is why we are focusing on fighting congestion by all the means we have. We now have a lot less because of corona. That's because we're spreading better now and we're almost just working at home, unless there's no other way. The traffic jams that we still have are there, for example, because of an accident or road works. Or that's better in other countries? You are very pleased with the German approach. As a Member of the European Parliament, I spent many years driving up and down to Strasbourg on the German motorways. I have also been able to spend a lot of hours in traffic there, I can tell you. So I don't know if that's so much better there. The German colleague Hendrik Wüst from North Rhine-Westphalia has just come to us for coffee to see how we do our incident management, because they think we do it faster. Anyway, you'll compare it to one country. I very much agree with you that you must ensure that it continues to flow. Everything is also aimed at achieving that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u53	As far as incident management is concerned and that we are good at that: I am very proud of our Rijkswaterstaat and our police. They're doing great. All praises to those people. But that's not what I'm talking about. I am talking about the flow and all the measures imposed by the government. That's what I'm talking about. I would like to ask the Minister the following. I've asked one of your predecessors to do the same. If there's one flake of snow on the trail, everything goes to hell. Stand up in Switzerland and Austria. They don't have those problems there. I would like to say to you that the German Minister is here to look, but you should do an internship there, either with the German highway police or with the German state water state. I don't know what it's called so soon. That'd be a pretty good one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u54	We have a lot of good contacts with the eastern neighbours, both at the federal level and at the Länder level. We also have them with the southern neighbours and other European Member States on other themes. In the area of road safety, we have good contacts with, for example, Sweden. So we are certainly trying to learn from the other countries as well. Mr Graus mentioned a snowflake on the rails. I'll leave that question to the Secretary of State. Then let me talk about snowflakes on the road. That is precisely where we have a fantastic project going with the Data Task Force, with those six car brands, the navigation companies and the European Member States. If one car finds that it is slippery through the wheel traction, it is no longer indicated by car brand or navigation system. They'll share it with each other. If you drive brand X there and it gets thrown in the air, someone behind you with brand Y gets that information, too. I think that we are also very much on the right track there in sharing that kind of information, on weather, on slippery roads, etc., together with the other European countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u55	Yesterday it was quite a long time about the Westerschelde tunnel and the toll that is being levied. We have indeed received answers to the questions we have also asked. That was about the start-up, the history, how this came about and the compensation package, but I would like to talk about the feeling that lives in Zeeland and Zeeland-Flanders. That is above all the feeling of injustice. I understand that very well. That feeling of injustice became even stronger when closing the Belgian borders at the first lockdown. It has economic consequences, which show several studies, but also social consequences. You feel that you are cut off from the rest of the Netherlands, unless you pay tolls as the only one in the Netherlands. I would therefore ask the Minister to take a closer look at the proposal we are making. The proposal is not about 400 million, or whatever it may be, just settle with each other in the final budget debate. We would like to settle it for next year, because, as several parties have said, there is a real feeling of resolving this from the point of view of national politics. I know that there are also some unforeseen items within the IenW budget. Can I tempt the Minister to see if we can resolve this before the coming year, 2021, and remove the feeling of injustice? In the formation we're going to settle this, if it's up to us, for the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u56	The Minister. It was a long interruption. Mr Graus agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u57	I can imagine the feeling of the people in the border region very well. That is why we have also used it from the beginning not to close those borders. We have also talked to the eastern neighbours about keeping them open, so that the people who have family and work on the other side of the border can continue without any problems for them. It is a considerable amount, even if it is one year. In the past, agreements have been made with the province of Zeeland. It was handled that way, bought off. The province of Zeeland is now responsible for this too, and I actually think that this discussion should be there. That is why I have just appointed Mr Wientjes' compensation package, as I would call it a domestic one, because that choice was not made either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u58	Indeed, the answers say: the Westerschelde tunnel is far from Vlissingen. Buying the toll has not been assessed as a sufficient contribution to the economic strengthening of the structure, but it is not felt and experienced in Zeeuws-Vlaanderen. It is indeed the end of the Netherlands. I myself live on the other side at the end of the Netherlands. Sometimes you get the feeling: there in The Hague they talk about us and they say they think the region is important, but when they come to the end of the day, they don't deliver. I believe that, especially in view of the corona crisis, in which we, rightly, are giving companies billions to save jobs and keep jobs, from that package of aid that costs billions 30 million for next year, it is not about big money to make a gesture towards Zeeuws-Vlaanderen. It's not just a gesture. At the formation, too, we must make the agreement that we are going to solve that whole amount with each other. Of course, the province of Zeeland has a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u59	I just want to say something about that feeling in the region that they don't count. I think that the Secretary of State and I are taking an important step in that direction. When switching to the Mobility Fund and a new NMCA, we will also look cross-border, so that you no longer let your models stop at the border and so that you can also take the other half of the transport flow that is promising. So that's what I'm going to say about the sense of the region. I think we are showing that we are taking this seriously. And then it's said, 30 million isn't that much, is it? We just don't have it. All our resources are invested. In that sense, I can't help but dissuade you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u60	Then I will go to Mrs Van der Graaf and then Mr Schonis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u61	Due to the lockdown and closing of the shops in Belgium, the people in Zeeuws-Vlaanderen felt quite isolated. That brings the discussion to the surface what to do with the toll for the Westerschelde tunnel. I also said yesterday that, as far as the Christian Union is concerned, we should work towards abolishing the toll. The Minister rightly states that choices for the longer future will have to be made at the formation table next year. Is the Minister prepared to look in the run-up to that to see how we can make this financially possible and look at different funding models? We need to be real about a substantial amount of money. It's a political choice whether or not you want to do something about this. Is the Minister prepared to see how we can make this possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u62	Once again, we do not see any reason for this. In the past good agreements have been made with Zeeland. If your Chamber decides to do so, I will, of course, cooperate with it. At first, however, it is the responsibility of the province of Zeeland, because they have actually assumed that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u63	As a native of Zeeland, I would like to join with Mrs Van der Graaf in her words. I understand the feelings. I also really understand the thinking behind the amendment tabled by my fellow Members. I also understand that this is 30 million. That's what you do for a year. What are you gonna tell me the next year? I struggle with that myself, but as Zeeuwen we always come up again and we do not swim that thought again. That's actually not what I'm standing here for. You were talking about driving a bill. At least, I think you were talking about considering the future and financing it. You even won a prize for it yesterday. I wanted to congratulate you on that. I have seen that, among other things, the Minister has won a prize for introducing road pricing. That was the truck tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u64	That's right, that was about the truck tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u65	I am glad that the Minister will say: I will take this as an encouragement to introduce road pricing into the Netherlands as well. I hear the Minister say: research shows that this is going to take up to nine years. Let me get this straight. We agreed in the Climate Agreement, including your signature, that we will be preparing for the next cabinet until March next year. In 2025, therefore, that cabinet will be able to introduce road pricing in the next tax reform, not in nine years' time, but in five years' time, and prepare for it. Are we still on course for that decision? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u66	Secretary of State Vijlbrief will send you the letters on the follow-up investigations this year. I understand from him that it's all on schedule. I just wanted to make it clear that when you talk about the introduction of charging, people think of the year when it actually comes into force. The reports indicate that it is not technically feasible that this will take nine years. Again, the experts write that down, and I'll just take notice of that. Furthermore, investigations and so on are on schedule. I did not get that price just because of the plans we are making and the preparations for the truck tax. It was wider. I think you all got that price a little bit, because it was meant for the Netherlands. We have top infrastructure and we are top in smart mobility. It was also especially intended for our Strategic Road Safety Plan. We were in Stockholm at that road safety conference with a delegation from the Cycling Association to the ANWB and SWOV. That has really impressed internationally. I therefore honestly believe that the very broad Dutch policy has ensured that price and not just the truck tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u67	Okay, thank you. Then we share a little in the joy of celebration. But very concrete and very specific. The minister's sketching a trajectory. We're still on course. Appointments from the Climate Agreement. Preparations are taking place now. 2025 in the comprehensive review of the tax system, and this will then be introduced. We're still on course for that. The agreement in the climate agreement is in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u68	Yeah, as far as I know. I have heard nothing else from Mr Filipino.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u69	Mr Laçin and then Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u70	I still want to go back to Zeeland, to Zeeland-Flanders. Mr Gijs van Dijk asked a question about this. Mrs Van der Graaf asked a question about this. When I hear the answer 'we don't have the money and it's in the province', I'm surprised. Because that money is there and, as Mrs Van der Graaf said, it is political choices that you are spending it on. That is why we have a budget debate and that is why we have tabled an amendment. You can find anything from the cover; we can also change it. But the money is there if we want it. That was my first point. The second point is that the Minister should also outline why the province once took over that tunnel. That was because the government had plans to privatise him, so the rates for the people of Zeeuws-Vlaanderen would rise enormously. The province felt compelled to intervene, so that the rates for its inhabitants would not go up. This is also part of the history which the Minister describes in her written reply. In this light, I would ask the Minister, in line with Mr Gijs van Dijk, to arrange the 30 million together at least for the coming year. Then a final solution can be found at the formation table, whatever the parties are there. I hope the Minister will also see that Zeeland-Flanders and Zeeland deserve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u71	Once again, we have thought very carefully about our budget and we have been able to scrape together the resources that we have been able to label the projects and plans that we have identified as priorities. This isn't one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u72	Mrs. Kröger. I think there's a difference of opinion; I can see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u73	I would also like to congratulate the Minister on the plume from the asphalt lobby, especially for the timing of the day when she threw a PR film into the world that was signed under the A27 route decision, the most controversial road in the Netherlands. My question is this. There are several rather clear opinions from the Commission for the m.e.r. about nitrogen, about usefulness and necessity, about the impact on nature. The Minister surprised the Chamber with that video, but the decision has yet to be published. Can the Minister assure me that all these concerns and concerns from the Commission will be taken into account? Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u74	If I had no confidence in that, I would of course not have signed the route decision. So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u75	If there is so much certainty in the Minister's answer, then I would ask myself the following. Those were really pretty firm advice. The project was once killed at the Council of State and there are many legal experts who say: it is shaky. The legal nitrogen framework is currently shaky. Actually, the cabinet's doing what it's been fooled for before. There are two different calculation systems. It's rattling. Why does the Minister not present this EIA and all the documents under it to the Commission for the m.e.r. for a final opinion before publishing a final decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u76	Of course, we didn't go ice cream over one night. Many people at Rijkswaterstaat and many experts have put in a lot of hard work, also in order to find the right answer to the Commission's criticism for the m.e.r. and others. If we have broad conviction, and it is broad among all those people, that the answer is there, then you also normally follow the procedure. This is already a 12-year journey. It's been long enough. We're gonna put things into procedure and then everyone can still submit their views and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u77	I mentioned the number 207 yesterday. It was built 207 kilometers under this cabinet. I'm looking a little ahead: what else would come? When I look at these seven MIRT projects, I see that one decision has been taken: the decision that Mrs Kröger has just mentioned. The CDA is much more positive about that. We are pleased with that. But we still have four months. What other decisions are there to take with regard to the seven? Is the Minister moving forward at a speed of 130 km/h and are further steps being taken? How many of these other decisions does it intend to take before this cabinet period is over? Is that one, two, three, four or six?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u78	Of course, that depends a little bit on whether you're going to include a missionary cabinet. No, that's lame. Of course, some of them aren't. We know, for example, that InnovA58, the piece Sint-Annabosch-Galder, where we really have a huge challenge in terms of nitrogen, is not yet coming. That's what I've been telling you before. That can be delayed by three years. So which ones exactly, we'll have to wait and see. It's going through with man and power. You also know that, despite the Elvering Committee in the past, we have lost on average seven years to the first two steps of the MIRT process. Then you are not talking at all about all kinds of objections that come later or problems like now around nitrogen. Then you haven't even taken the entire tender and construction time and that also takes a lot of time. In the beginning of my ministry I was allowed to give the start for the A24, the Blankenburg connection. That's what you do in early 2018, hoping it's easy to remember in 2024: the A24 in '24 is finished, that you get it. Such a period of construction is therefore still incredibly long. The Gaasperdammer Tunnel is now ready. That's not about a lot of miles, but it's a fantastic project. Let's get that A27 again. We now hope with the route decision that it will be delivered in 2027, but it was, I think, 2008 when this started. Then your Minister Camiel Eurlings sat in my chair and we don't know who's gonna be in 2027. But they're just incredibly long, our trajectories. Whatever we can speed that up, we're happy to do. We are also working on the implementation of Mr Van Aalst's motion and looking at what we can think of to shorten those procedures. But, yes, nitrogen has caused us a considerable additional delay, especially with regard to the major projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u79	Mr. Schonis again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u80	I didn't know we'd already reached the A27. I took up the answers to the questions this morning. I think I need to make a point. The Minister refers to "the Commission's criticism of the M.E.R.'. No, the M.E.R. Commission. has at most a critical opinion. They're advising you, and it's not like they're criticizing you as a minister. But aside from that... It is true that the point they critically advised on is that nitrogen story. You gave a different answer to Mrs Kröger's question and to my question in terms of nitrogen. Mrs Kröger's question is: is there enough nitrogen space to carry this project through? You say: yes, I used the AERIUS model. That is the method of calculating last November, I shall say. At the question of me whether we have enough nitrogen space to look further at the housing situation, you say: I guess so, because on the hexagons around Utrecht... Yes, it is a beautiful science fiction-like setting, but it just comes down to the fact that the calculation model shows that there would be enough nitrogen space around Utrecht, assuming that my point is that the new nitrogen law will come into force soon. But that nitrogen bill isn't here yet, it's still here in the House of Representatives. You're ahead of this. How can you say: I am confident that it will be all right? You don't know what method of calculation you're going to use.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u81	As a member of the coalition, I can expect Mr Schonis to be confident that this law will be all right. In any case, we are assuming that this is the case. We have looked at this with all the experts and I see no reason to doubt it. Once again, otherwise, I would not have signed that route decision. The relevant documents will soon be available. Then you can take note of that. I hope you'll come to the same conclusion as I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u82	I certainly hope so. I always have a lot of faith, but I'm also from legal school "trust is good and checking is better." I'm also just sitting here as a controlling MP, especially as a controlling MP. I can't do that check right now, because I do not have those pieces. I find that very difficult with the timing of this whole story. All right, it's your decision. There's nothing I can do about that, because it's also your jurisdiction, but I'm really holding my own here. I just can't control it. I'd like to trust you, but I'd like it in black and white.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u83	You'll get it later. The documents will all be made public and you can take note of them and ask us further. It is simply the normal procedure for each route decision that applies here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u84	Mr Laçin. I'm coughing because I'm having trouble with the wipes. That's every time it's cleaned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u85	There's not much I can do about that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u86	No, I'm just saying that you don't think that... but well, Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u87	The Minister says that she follows the normal procedure for a route decision, but we have of course all been able to conclude that the normal course of action is not the current course of action. Last May, the Council of State issued a ruling on the PAS. After that, a lot has been done to get housing moving, for example. Before we can see the calculations on which the Minister's decision is based to be in a poorly mounted film and to share it on social media, the House of Representatives at this stage has the right to carry out that control first and then to see if it can all be done, yes or no. The minister signed something. We don't know anything about anything. We still have to wait for those calculations. Why does the Minister, especially when it comes to this project, not choose to first inform us as Chambers and then look at how we are going to carry this forward, while that nitrogen law also needs to be dealt with? I am not a member of the coalition as Mr Schonis is. Maybe I have less faith in that law. So why doesn't the Minister choose that route?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u88	'Cause I'm just following the normal procedure, like any route decision. I saw no reason to deviate from that. So you're going to get all those pieces, just like it's common for every route decision and draft route decision in all these steps. The course of justice is still fully open. So there's nothing special going on in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u89	Your fourth question, Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u90	Luckily, the VVD can't do anything about the lawsuit. Or else that would have happened, I guess. But what matters here is that there is a great deal going on in this project. The Minister pretends that it all went very normally and very well, but there was a statement from the Council of State and the decision on the route was actually destroyed afterwards. On the basis of information unknown to us, this minister is attacking on the same footing. That's what can't be done anymore. We in the Chamber want to be able to carry out that control. The Minister could have taken this route differently by first informing us, starting the debate with us, waiting for the nitrogen law and then continuing with the route she wants to follow. This gives no confidence to the Chamber, but also not to all those people who have been working for years for other alternatives. They just don't feel taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u91	Mr. Laçin, the interruptions must be really short. This applies not only to Mr Laçin but to all of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u92	I think I'm repeating myself. In the direction of Mr Laçin, I would say that you do not think that all those people at the Rijkswaterstaat and all those agencies who have worked on this for a very long time are flapping together and thinking 'well, then we will see if it lasts in court'? Of course not. We have worked very seriously on this and you will be able to learn about it in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u93	Easy, Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u94	I am dealing here as a Member of Parliament with a minister, not with all those officials who are sitting at the Rijkswaterstaat, who, of course, are trying to do their job well. The point is that this is a sensitive project, that it is a huge amount of money, that there are alternatives and that there is a statement from the Council of State. We do not know whether the Minister's decision is well founded, and we would like to know that. The question to the Minister is why she is going the opposite way, by first sharing videos, signing autographs, making beautiful decorations and then starting the debate with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u95	That's the normal procedure. I saw no reason to deviate from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u96	It seems as if the Minister also uses the argument that we have been working on it for so long. But that's actually not an argument at all. The Minister also says that care is always at the top. In another file, the minister has a very bad track record when it comes to the confidence that there is not in the aviation file. This is where she builds something. The question is this. We understand, for example, that the traffic models are 12 years old, so they are still before the Treaty of Paris. That she's been working on it for so long, with old models, isn't that a reason to give the Chamber proper information before taking those decisions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u97	I do not think it would be wise to discuss such a whole route decision with each other, which we do not have at our disposal. Don't worry, it'll all be fine. You get to see it all at the usual moments. You can rely on the fact that, of course, the right figures have been used.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u98	That is the problem: these good figures, they sometimes want to suspend with this minister. It is precisely those traffic reports that we would like to see and have validated, because they are 12 years old. How does the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u99	[[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan niet anders dan herhalen dat de heer Van Raan nog even geduld moet hebben.]] Then all the documents are made public and then you can read it all quietly. And then you'll have plenty of time to respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u100	It is nice that the Minister continues to praise her officials and all the agencies she works with and says: 'wait and see'. The fact is that the Minister has signed and has not yet been published. The moment it's published, it's a decision, so we're in a vacuum now. In that vacuum I would like to ask the Minister whether she has the basis for the signature she has put with a lot of bombs, with us and with the Commission for the m.e.r. Share. We're in a very complex legal situation. The Council of State has given a hell of a slap on the wrist, everything is shaky. There's no nitrogen law yet. The Hordijk Committee says: you cannot just work with two different calculation models. We have angry farmers in the Binnenhof, who ask why road traffic is treated completely differently from them. That is all part of the complexity of a decision on a road that is going to cost 1.2 billion, if it comes along, and probably much more. And then the Minister asks us to trust that we're okay. We want to be able to see those calculations, the documents and the justification before the decision is published and therefore final, and that is at this stage of the vacuum.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u101	I understand very well that Mrs Kroger would like to do so, but it is the procedure that is customary. I signed it and that's it. And then we go into the normal viewing procedure. An important part of the Chamber is asking for speed with those seven MIRT projects, and a motion has also been passed on this, so I'm just doing my job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u102	It's gonna be a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u103	The Minister is doing her work in a view in which she is basically permeating the prescribed road. Again, it's different than usual. The cabinet has been flagged by the Council of State. We have a very complex situation with nitrogen. There is a huge social issue: how will agriculture contribute and what about road traffic? That's all complex matter. It's different than usual. Again, I would like to ask the Minister, also in view of all the thunderstorm around Lelystad Airport, to be careful in doing so and before the decision is published, to share that support with us as a Chamber, so that I can also do my job as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u104	Mrs Kröger will soon be able to read all these documents very soon, when they are published. All justice and all normal procedures are still open. So I'm doing what we normally do on every route decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u105	Mr. Van Raan. There you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u106	Yeah, a quick question, then. Is the Minister aware that these traffic models of 15 years ago predict a traffic flow, that they are part of the model and that they include nitrogen emissions which are not permitted at all? Does the Minister know that, I ask her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u107	I think Mr Van Raan is now speculating on how I think it is possible to calculate. I'm not going to anticipate any of that. I must ask you to be patient until you have all the documents. And then you can see if we 'criticism' have, in your view, been able to respond correctly to the opinion of the Council of State, as Mr Schonis said. And Mr Schonis is right about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u108	It's not about whether or not I speculate. My question is simple. The traffic model adopted 15 years ago includes emissions greater than those identified by the Council of State in the PAS ruling. Does the Minister know that? That's my question. Yes or no? Does the Minister know or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u109	Once again, I am not going to discuss with Mr Van Raan what model was or was not used at what time, and what is included in that for nitrogen emissions. I don't think that's wise. We're going to publish the documents first at an appropriate time. Then you can talk about it and then we can discuss it with each other, but not in advance without proper documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u110	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u111	You're not interrupting anymore, Mr. Laçin. You said that earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u112	Also, on other interruptions, you said: I signed, so it's okay. So you say that the emissions calculated in the models fit. That's what the conclusion has to be. Otherwise, you wouldn't have signed. That's a simple yes or no, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u113	If we had not found a solution to the problem of nitrogen, we would not have been able to present it. That makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u114	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u115	We assume that's well repaired.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u116	You've come to the subject of maritime transport? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u117	Yeah, that's what we're gonna do. The maritime sector is also hit by corona. These are, of course, ports, inland waterways and maritime transport. I would also like to congratulate the sector here. Under difficult conditions, we simply remain fully operational, because the supply and disposal of goods continues, even under one-and-a-half meter conditions. A number of good developments can also be reported on the maritime sector. First of all, we have, of course, made the Portnota 2020-2030 together with the sector. It contains concrete agreements on accessibility, on digitisation, on sustainability. Your Chamber will receive it before the end of the year. In addition, the maritime green deal that I made in the spring of 2019 starts to get hands and feet. Up to 2030, I will pay more than EUR 92 million for a subsidy on clean engines in inland waterway transport. Furthermore, in 2021, the energy tax on shore power will expire, which means that we can boost it much more. I think that's a really nice milestone. The sector is really making it more sustainable. Mr Wassenberg mentioned the international regulations on sulphur emissions from ships as a very good step. I very much agree with him. Like Mr Wassenberg, I, of course, would prefer to achieve more quickly. And I see opportunities for that too, because in inland waterway transport you can also see beautiful initiatives. By the end of the year, an inland waterway corridor with batteries and smart shipping will start. One of the containers is a battery. Actually, that's a very practical and beautiful system. For smart shipping we have also started a new partnership. Universities are now involved. We have plans for 30 emission-free ships and 5 retrofits in ten years. We must, of course, scale up and speed up, but the energy for this is really there in the sector. Some of you mentioned the modal shift from road to water. I'm sure the Secretary of State will also say something about the modal shift from road to rail. As you know, the administrative consultations on the MIRT will take place again next week. In addition, we come together with a scheme to further stimulate modal shift. We must not forget that the modal shift is also a mental shift. A company that's used to tricking things up, so to transport them by road, isn't gonna think for itself that it might be able to do so by water or rail. You have to help these companies. So that's what we're working on. Then there is a subject on which a large number of Members have spoken: the MSC Zoe accident. Mr Schonis has presented a fine action plan, the Clean Wadden Action Plan, for which he thanked. Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Postma also called for attention to be paid to the routes north of the Wadden. I can tell you that I will come before the AO Maritime, which is scheduled for 3 December, with a cabinet response to the OVV report on MSC Zoe. I will also go into all the ongoing and planned actions towards the IMO in detail. I will also give you the most up-to-date results of the consultation with Germany, including the role of the Coast Guard, which has been specifically requested. Inland waterway transport also benefits from better coordination of the operating times of bridges and locks. I've allocated $5 million for that. This is now beginning to pay off with caution. There's a blank piece of paper in there; it's getting better. Then I have a number of questions about this. Mr Stoffer asked about the berths. He indicated that moorings will disappear and that little will come back. He asked what the development was. Let me point out that I also think it is very important that we help our skippers on the waterways as best we can to plan their sailing and to carry out that sailing safely. Of course, sufficient berths are a crucial part of this, because they ensure that skippers can comply with the required sailing and rest periods. Rijkswaterstaat has 700 overnight stays under management. We periodically map the berthing capacity bottlenecks. That is also what we are doing with the National Market and Capacity Analysis. The most urgent bottlenecks are addressed in the MIRT-systematiek. In the meantime, several initiatives have been launched to address deficits. A number of studies are already under way. For example, there is a MIRT-research Werkendam and a quickwin for moorings at Weurt. So we're working on dealing with these berth shortages. We are working on the preparation and realization of a total of more than 70 additional berths. Then we are talking about the Beneden-Lek, the Merwedes, the Upper IJssel and the Waal, specifically at Lobith. The construction of berths is also linked where possible to other infrastructure tasks. This applies, for example, to the construction of the third kolk at the Beatrix sluice, which was delivered in 2019. I had eleven extra berths built on top of that. Of course, berths aren't the only element to support our skippers. A smooth passage is also important. Then you come back to the operating times of bridges and locks, which we are working on through the programme Better Served. In doing so, we look at very practical issues such as the replacement of cameras and radio-phone systems, a more efficient fence and better information provision. In addition, I already released 175 million extra in 2019 to mention failures for shipping. I also get a call myself on my phone every time there's a malfunction somewhere. In that respect, I am on top of it, because of course you are also annoyed when another malfunction is reported. It is also always written on how many ships there may be waiting and how long it will take. Then I always have a little sympathy with the skippers who are waiting there. Mr. Chairman. Those were the questions about maritime transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u118	Thank you. You still had a few questions, I think. No? Then that's it. Thank you. Oh, there are still interruptions from the Chamber, from Mrs Van Eijs and Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u119	I thought there was another block left.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u120	Yeah, but I didn't have any questions in the folders. But put them at ease now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u121	Yeah, here comes one. The written answers contain an answer to my question about the unannounced checks at BRZO+ companies. It mentions the ILT. I didn't mention that in my question. So I thought that was creative. With regard to these unannounced checks, I wonder whether the Minister understands the reasoning behind that about the Potemkin village. Doesn't she agree with me that if you do unannounced checks, the companies that always do well, who always have things in order and who don't hide bodies in closet, would benefit from them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u122	I understand exactly what Mrs Van Eijs means. If it is always announced, then everything is neatly raked and so forth at the time of the inspection. That's certainly not the only thing the inspection does. There are also unannounced checks. I have just given an example with regard to the lorries. There too there is administrative supervision. There are all kinds of supervision, and unannounced supervision is part of that. It is also part of the risk-driven approach of the ILT. There is also coordination with other inspections of raids and so on, which have not been announced. So that's definitely what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u123	I have another question about aviation. I thought maybe that would come after maritime. We've had the roads, we've had the water. Firstly, thanks to the Minister for having a proposal for regional airports, which is really being taken seriously. I think that's important. The Minister just mentioned the sustainability of inland waterway transport in the maritime sector. She mentioned the engines and the durability. I asked in my first term: how are we going to fill in the innovation section in the Aviation Note? That's what we need resources for. The sustainability of aviation with the sector partners costs money. I know the private sector has to put that in, but is the minister going to free up money for the research that's going on for that? Is it going to look for money so that, in the next period, we can actually make the innovation in the aviation industry, air sustainability, real?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u124	My commitment is certainly to make the sustainability of aviation a reality. We are going to talk about this further on the basis of the Aeronautics Note. We're already doing something from the Ministry. But as we develop it further and we also gain more insight into what financial resources are needed for precisely what, of course, we will also have to find the means to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u125	Thank you. I still see Mr Stoffer and Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u126	I would like to say a few words about the maritime sector. I have seen the written answer to my question as to whether the Rijksrederij can bring forward work. It says that fleet replacement will be looked at carefully, but also in the light of experience. I get that. But of course, this isn't time for scared people. My question is therefore: is it not possible, for example, to bring forward overdue maintenance or something else, apart from the replacement of the fleet? The maritime sector in the Netherlands, the shipbuilding industry, is really having a hard time. If we are not careful, a lot of companies are going to fall down or a lot of jobs are going to be lost. My specific question is, therefore, whether the Minister would like to look very carefully at the Rijksrederij if there is some late maintenance, so that some work can be put on the market very quickly, so that we can just keep jobs, here in the Netherlands, in that beautiful shipbuilding we have. That doesn't have to be more than a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u127	I would very much like to say that to Mr Stoffer. In the Infra Task Force, I happened to have another conversation with all the domes today, and we tried to do the same for all the infrastructure projects. I think it is a very good suggestion to see what we can bring forward with this sector too, in order to alleviate the need there too. Let's do it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u128	Then Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u129	Apparently, we're skipping aviation for a while, but I did ask a question about that. I asked for a very specific document yesterday. The minister says all the nitrogen calculations, everything around Lelystad Airport is in the Chamber. I specifically asked for the digital files submitted to the Ministry of Economic Affairs on 7 April for the PAS by NLR. Can she share these with the Chamber within a week?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u130	We have answered these questions in writing. I have nothing to add to that right now. Otherwise, I will have to come back to it in the second term, if a question has not been answered unexpectedly. I would like to take a look at that, but I think they have been answered very detailed and specific questions. I see other MPs nodding that this is true. But let's check it out. If one of your questions has not been answered, I will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u131	Otherwise, you'll all have interruptions, but if the Minister comes back to it in second term...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u132	We're gonna check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u133	Fine. Then I'll suspend the meeting for two minutes and the chair can be cleaned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u134	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister already referred to it: a special budget treatment. Perhaps just because it started with a unique photo shoot around Mr Graus, but in all honesty I have to admit that it was also the traditional selfie of Cora and me at the start of our budget treatment. We didn't want to miss that this time either, probably because it's the last time in this setting, as the minister said. Indeed the last time in this setting, because some familiar faces on your side will be missing. We usually address each other neatly with the last name, but I hope, Mr President, that you will allow me to make it personal. Some of these Members, who may not be coming back next time, were colleagues when I was still in the Chamber. Dear Cem, Carla, Erik, Rutger, Remco and Jessica, thank you for all the sharp questions and nice debates, but also the good cooperation we have had in all these years. We're gonna go on for a couple of months, when I see the agenda like this. There's still plenty to do. But I'd like to think about it. Politics is also human work, and I have greatly appreciated the cooperation with all of you, despite all the substantial differences of substance. I would just like to take a moment to reflect on that at the beginning of this annual major debate, before we move on to the content. Of course, there are other exceptional circumstances. The Minister has already thought about this in detail. As far as my part of the budget is concerned, Corona has a major impact on our public transport, financially but certainly also on the thousands of people who keep it running. They take the nurse to the hospital in the morning, the caregiver to his dependent father, the teacher to school. In short, they bring people who depend on public transport from A to B. I would therefore like to express my deep appreciation here for the work they have done, just as some Members of your Chamber have done in their contributions. My priority is to get public transport through the crisis as well as possible, with all the parties involved. I will come back to that in a moment in the block of mobility and corona. At the same time, we also need to look further at the long-term, be ready for the future, continue with the long-term challenge. Several MPs, including Mrs Kröger and Mr Van Dijk, insisted on this and indicated not only to go back to what it was like. I couldn't agree more. Mrs Postma spoke about the girls in the pits and said: we have to hold on to that spreading. I couldn't agree more. We need to build together on a less vulnerable, more resilient and more sustainable country. As far as I am concerned, that is the red line in this budget. The growth fund is, of course, also the driver. I always have in mind what I started three years ago in this budget. Working on a climate-neutral Netherlands, with emission-free transport, which should be an attractive option for everyone in the long term, especially for people with smaller wallets. We have taken a big step with the Climate Agreement. With the implementation of the mobility part of it, we are on track. Working on a country with as little waste as possible. A circular economy, therefore, with a much more efficient use of raw materials, our secret weapon against climate change, although mine may be a little less secret. There is a lot of focus on energy, which will bring us half of the climate gains, but much less attention to raw materials, allowing us to get the other half. Both are necessary. That is why, in ten years' time, we want to reduce raw materials consumption by 50%. Work on an even better railway, with good international connections, more space for the bike and less unsafe consideration. And work on reducing pollution at the source: turn off the tap, preferably before it is open, and let the polluter pay. We have laid down important principles in the new National Environmental Framework, but also, for example, in the proposal for financial security, so that taxpayers are no longer left with the bill if a company goes bankrupt. We've taken some nice steps together over the past few years. With a national and a European Plastic Pact we tackle plastic soup at the source. We want to prevent environmental pollution. Next year we will stop with one-off plastic, such as straws and cutlery. More than two thirds of the plastic soup consists of that kind of plastic. And we start with the introduction of deposit money on plastic bottles. After 20 years of discussion, the heels go out of the sand. Same goes for cans. With the Denim Deal, a blueprint has been laid for making much more clothing more sustainable. Among others, Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Van Eijs insisted on doing more with textiles. That wasn't the first time. With the proposals for the organisation of the market on the railways, the Future Picture OV 2040 and the transformation of ProRail to Zbo, we are determining the direction for the rail traffic of the future. And the bike has joined our intangible national heritage for a reason. We have made a big catch-up with the number of bicycle parking spaces at stations, which grows to 600,000 in 2025. We have expanded the network of bike highways as well as bicycle ambassadors. So much for my general introduction. I'd like to do three cubes. The first is mobility and corona, then the block of sustainable mobility and climate and the third is about living environment and circular economy. Mr. Chairman. The OB sector ensures that the Netherlands remains accessible during this period of corona. I was just getting into it. Don't let anyone say they're moving air. They ensure accessibility, even in times of corona, and for that the sector deserves our thanks. So my priority is to get through this crisis and the availability fee is a very important basis for that. Apart from these uncertain times, in the longer term, we still see a growing demand for public transport, both in passenger transport and in rail freight transport. The forecast for OL was more than 40% growth by 2030. So we now have a few more years to implement the plans and to absorb that growth. In doing so, we have the opportunity to do so in a way that brings with us the structural consequences of covid. Hopefully that will mean that we can hold more spread. We want to be ready for that. With the future picture of the public transport sector and the proposals for the market organisation on the track, we have taken a few important steps. These proposals create stability. We guarantee the public character of the rail sector. We leave politics and travelers to decide what is offered and not the market. With or without toilets, to give a concrete example. That should not come from the market, but be a public choice. I would also like to emphasise the importance of the rail freight sector. Several Members of Parliament, including Mr Graus, Mr Ziengs and Mr Schonis, have drawn attention to this issue in this debate. I agree with the importance of modal shift from road to rail. I recently provided a subsidy for the deployment of special teams that advise companies on the movement of loads that are still going on the road, to rail or inland waterway transport. All these developments in both passenger and freight transport are also accompanied by a great deal of investment. Many MPs have asked questions about this. We will discuss this at length in the MIRT meeting. In addition, the Minister has already made a number of general comments, for example on the importance of investing in management, maintenance and replacement. What she said about roads also applies to rail: both the need to invest a lot in them in the coming years and the fact that we have tried to raise money. You have seen this in the budget. In addition to investing we want to get the maximum out of the current system. Of course, we do so without losing sight of the interests of the local residents. Mr Amhaouch and Mr Ziengs, among others, asked for attention to be paid to this. At different locations in the Netherlands, passing trains cause vibrations. It's very difficult to resist them. Today's technology is not a sufficient solution. There aren't even standards for it. We are really the frontrunner in the Netherlands with the way in which we are trying to deal with this problem, in which we want to combat it. That is why I am allocating EUR 20 million for new research into solutions and a number of concrete pilots. Despite the current corona crisis and the short-term challenges posed by the crisis, improving international rail transport continues to be a long-term priority as a sustainable alternative for international travelers. A large number of you have also drawn attention to this: Mrs Kröger, Mr Laçin, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Schonis and Mrs Van de Graaf. I would like to thank Mrs Kröger for her top five railway plans which she presented to me yesterday, which, of course, include the promotion of night train connections. It is and remains absolutely my commitment to the international traveler's ever better service. And, apart from my good personal memories of the night train, I like it for a wider choice in mobility concepts that the night train comes back to the Netherlands. The first step is to start a pilot with a night train to Vienna. Mrs Kröger has asked me to reserve funds for additional night train connections. I certainly like that idea, but I would now like to anticipate it. The pilot is intended precisely to test the potential for such a product. In addition to the pilot, I am working in parallel on an exploration to encourage more interested parties to choose the Netherlands as their destination for their night train product. So I do not want to anticipate the results of this exploration of interested carriers and measures at the moment. I am not just looking at the potential for stimulating night train connections. In the coming period, on the basis of the market exploration of international rail transport, I will look at the potential for different international destinations, and how that can be filled in. I am looking at short cross-border transport as well as longer distances. We also come to the MIRT to discuss this with each other. Of course, the best solution for the traveller is always at the heart of this. Mr. Chairman. I now have a number of specific questions on mobility. Mrs Van der Graaf asked how the government intends to stimulate the public transport system as an attractive travel option. The government continues with the policy of improving the quality of travel and comfort for travellers. Indeed, the longer term expectation is that mobility will continue to grow and therefore there will be an increasing challenge. This policy is aimed at social security and Mr Graus also drew attention to accessibility, improving travel information and investing in nodes, such as bicycle storage at stations. The negotiations on the new concession for the main rail network, the picture of the future for the bike and the Stations Agenda are important instruments in this respect. Mr Dijkstra asked what I can say about the future availability fee. As the Minister pointed out, as a result of corona in the short term, there are other challenges in terms of mobility than in the longer term. In the longer term, mobility is expected to continue to grow and therefore remains a major challenge. In the short term, passenger earnings in the enterprise are expected to remain at a lower level. That is also because the cabinet calls for people to work as much as possible at home. The government therefore offers the OB sector the prospect of extending the availability fee for the second half of 2021. We have chosen to rest until mid 2021 at least with the current package. For the second half of 2021, we will work together on the basis of a transition plan, to see how the structural effects of corona work out, for example by working more at home and spreading better. This will enable more efficient investment for businesses. That will all come back to the transition plan. Mr Amhaouch asked for a very nice concept. He asked about the community stations. What is possible to make stations more habitable in this way? He is right in saying that the example in Deurne shows that community stations can be a wonderful concept and have a huge added value in the region. ProRail and NS have already been asked to involve parties such as local volunteers and municipalities more and better in the development and management of stations. The position of community stations and the way in which they can be stimulated will become part of the Stations Agenda that I have announced. I think that Stations agenda will be sent to your Chamber next year after the summer. Mr Amhaouch asked if I was prepared to express the ambition and take concrete steps towards a future picture of cross-border rail transport together with Germany, Belgium and the European Commission. I certainly share this ambition. We're working on this through two tracks. Firstly, the future image of OV explicitly focuses on cross-border rail transport, both short-term cross-border rail transport and long-distance international rail transport. I'll inform your Chamber shortly about the development agenda of that Future Image OV. Secondly, on the initiative of the Netherlands, 28 European countries and the European Commission signed an EU declaration on international passenger transport on 4 June 2020. Several sector parties have also joined. All these parties will work together to develop an ambitious programme to promote the market development of international passenger transport. The cross-border connections of the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany are of course also part of this. As previously promised, I will inform your Chamber of the progress of this European cooperation, as well as of all international initiatives through the progress report on international rail passenger transport. I can say in advance that it is a very comprehensive letter. So why don't you take some time off? Mrs Van der Graaf asked if I would be willing to organise a railroad summit, because we should try to cut the buttons as much as possible. We have regular bilateral consultations with Germany and Belgium, such as the recent broad mobility summit with my Flemish colleague. Earlier this year I spoke specifically with my German colleague about the international rail link Amsterdam-Berlin. Very soon, the Minister and I will be speaking again with North Rhine-Westphalia, also about connections, both for passenger and freight transport. There we discuss bottlenecks, but also ambitions. We try to keep a close eye on the progress, for example on the third track and on the connection Eindhoven-Düsseldorf. Those are fine concrete results, I think. In addition, we encourage international rail transport through that platform. The Netherlands played a huge tractor role there. It is very nice to see that there is so much enthusiasm and so much follow-up from other countries. This also shows how much faster the international connection will eventually be. If all these countries realise that together you can only make more speed, but they are also all willing to participate in such a platform and also to solve the practical points, then we are going to make meters with each other. Then it is also very nice that next year is the European Year of Rail. Let us hope that, in this sense, we can make good use of that. Those were the questions I had under this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u136	I had Mrs Kröger, Mr Amhaouch and Mr Stoffer. Mrs. Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u137	Thanks to the Secretary of State for her enthusiasm for the night train. In my opinion, it is a shared ambition and passion that we ensure that the Netherlands joins the European night trains. There are all kinds of initiatives going on. You will notice that this subject lives and brews everywhere, in Sweden, Austria, Switzerland and now Belgium, where they have a new green minister of traffic. I would find it so incredibly a shame if we waited a year now, because we have a pilot Vienna, while all these things are going on. How can we get us to hook up? The night train from Malmö goes to Brussels. Why not go to Amsterdam or another Dutch city? That was the intention of the amendment. How do we ensure that, in 2021, the year of rail, we join the European initiatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u138	I now fully understand the intention of what Mrs Kröger wants. She says: not every train will always run through the Netherlands, but let's make sure we don't miss opportunities where it would make sense. That is also the idea of this market exploration that we want to carry out at the beginning of next year. We're not gonna wait a whole year for the results of the night train pilot before we do any reconnaissance. We're really working on that at the beginning of next year. We will certainly take a good look when there are concrete initiatives. I have even asked people to look at this Swedish initiative. Which parties are working on it? Why are certain routes chosen? Can we still position the Netherlands well for a route? What's the timeline for that? We try to keep a close eye on these initiatives so as not to miss the boat. In the context of international market exploration, we try to get a picture of what is potentially interesting. Then, of course, we still have to use the results of the pilot before you start investing again, but you don't want to miss the boat in the meantime. I share that with Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u139	Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u140	I have a few more questions about the track. First, the vibrations are important, but at the same time the trains with chemicals, the chlorine trains or the poison trains, whatever you want to call them. The CDA is very concerned about that. The Secretary of State indicated that the projections are that the frequency on the track will increase after the corona crisis. The capacity's gonna increase. How do we really take this vision of the future into account, so that we do not run into these ceilings immediately? We'll see for ourselves in aviation. Neighbors are gonna complain. We want to maintain. We want to measure. You're afraid we're gonna do the same thing on the trail. Is the Secretary of State coming up with a letter or a clear investigation so she can convince the Chamber that for the next ten years or five years we certainly won't run into those ceilings?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u141	Mr Amhaouch is quite right to refer to the agreements that are in place in the basic rail network. Not every discovery you make is a pleasant discovery. The discovery I have made is that as the Basic Track Act is put together, you can only see afterwards whether or not it has remained within the ceilings. That was referred to by one of you. Maybe it was because of yourself. The Law Basenet Spoor, as we have arranged with each other, does not in itself provide any steering element. So we have said that with the different regions we need to move towards a robust base network with elements that can be better steered. Then you try to stick to a ceiling that you meet. Now that is not in the legislation, but we are following a very extensive route with the various regions, both along the Southern Corridor and the Eastern Corridor. I have both been there on work visits to talk to parties and to hear from them where the concerns are. We're in the program Robust Basenet. We'll inform the Chamber about that, too. We want to address both freight transport and increased passenger transport, as well as building ambitions. I also heard Mr Amhaouch asking very clearly for an integral picture of this. We will also have to do this fully with the regions. We'll get BZK involved in that, too. We're really in the middle of that process. So we'll come back with a letter to the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u142	Okay, okay. Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u143	It is very good that the Secretary of State makes a distinction. We have talked about short cross-border. We have mentioned the examples, for example the trip to Aachen or perhaps in the future to Liège. Düsseldorf is in the making. Mrs Kröger always talks about the night train to Vienna. That's very nice, but I say first things first. How can we reach a joint agreement with the Belgians and the Germans, with a signature underneath, with which we can go to the European Commission? I hear every time we talk to North Rhine-Westphalia, we talk to Lower Saxony, we talk to Berlin. I don't want to call it salami tactics, but they're salami discs. Someday we're gonna have to get a prick through that. There's gotta be some clarity as to what we're going for. When can the Secretary of State inform the Chamber about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u144	Also in this house a few laps go over before we put our signature under the check. That's perfectly normal, too. You want to weigh different routes against each other to know what the pros and cons are. So there is first a stage in which you have to decide with each other. Then you'll need another decision for the next phase. In the letter on international rail, I am going to tell you where we stand and what the concrete agreements are. I think we are really making concrete agreements for Berlin. We're gonna book half an hour's worth of time there. We have the joint tender for Eindhoven-Düsseldorf. For Weert-Hamont we are waiting for an offer from SNCB. I know we're going to talk about Emmerich in the MIRT, too. For the Wunderline, we signed an agreement. So there is already a lot, but we still have ambitions. In that letter I will inform you about the state of play of all these projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u145	Mr Stoffer and then Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u146	I have a point about the coach industry. I think it belongs under this heading, but I'm not sure. I have received a written reply and it says: we are constantly talking. That's wonderful, but at some point, you have to stop talking and you have to do it. I'm not getting that out of the answer. It is very simple to say that the overall package of support for labour costs can be used. That's fine. That can also be done for the fixed charges. However, these fixed charges are exactly as high as for the taxi industry. But I think everyone can see that a taxi is much cheaper than a very expensive bus. So I have also laid down quite specifically what needs to be done, namely a higher TVL, 42% instead of 33%, and for the summit of the market a little more for Euro 5 and Euro 6 buses. My question is: won't you just do that? In Germany they do something specific for the coach industry and here the industry is going to fall. If you don't intervene quickly, Secretary of State, we won't have a coach company left. So please do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u147	I understand the call. I also understand the confusion that the coach industry is actually part of. You're talking to me about public transport. Then you will think: it is about buses, so it will also be under the Secretary of State for IenW. But it's not. I don't have a structural relationship with the coach business. Having said that, neither the Secretary of State for EZK, nor I, nor the other departments that play a role in this area, want this sector to fall apart, just to stay in the transport grids. So we have said together that we are going to talk to this industry. We did. I said together with my colleague from EZK that we want to look at the extent to which the current package is sufficient for that industry. We want to stay in touch with them to see where the specific problems are. The difference between taxi and bus also came on the table. We do not yet have a solution for this, but it is one of the points that we know about. We really want to see what the problem is in this sector together, but I cannot undertake to amend an arrangement that is not mine. I don't have a structural relationship with this industry, but they do have my attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u148	This gives a little more perspective than with EZK, because that's what we've been talking about. Then you can see them fall a bit between shore and ship.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u149	I thought, "Where have I heard that question before?"
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u150	Yes, Mr. Chairman, once I get something, I'm like Mr. Van Aalst, one of those pit bulls that never lets go. But I don't bite that much. I'd like a commitment from the Secretary of State. "I'm talking," she says. That talking has to stop and then you have to do something. When's the answer? And I would also like that answer to the Chamber. I'd like to make a commitment to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u151	I cannot, of course, answer for a colleague, but I understand that Mr Stoffer would like the answer to the Chamber. We will see if I can say something in the second term, perhaps in coordination with EZK, about when we hope to inform the Chamber about the discussions we are having with this sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u152	I'm starting to see a little light. In that respect, thank you and do your best!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u153	This sector, too, is entitled to take their concerns seriously. Mrs. Keijzer and I are having these conversations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u154	Then I go to Mrs Van der Graaf and I see Mr Ziengs. Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u155	I would like to come back to the discussions that the Secretary of State has with Belgium and Germany on these cross-border train connections. Because, yes, we have very great ambitions for this, which are greater and must lead further. Of course, this will require real future investment in good rail links. We also see that there are connections that are extremely important for the daily commuting of people in the immediate vicinity. That is precisely where Mr Amhaouch also referred to it. There are a lot of small bottlenecks, which are not solved. That's why it's so important that we're not just talking, but actually making agreements. The Secretary of State mentioned the Wunderline. This bridge was built in Germany in 2015, and the latest reports are that it may not be restored until 2030. It'll be out for 15 years. Fifteen years! It is a bridge that forms part of a state treaty between the Netherlands and Germany. It states that this connection is essential to link the peoples together, so it must be restored. What is the Secretary of State going to do to make concrete agreements on this and to ensure that it is actually there within a few years?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u156	The Wunderline is primarily a project of the province of Groningen. They also have very close contact, I know, with their German counterparts. They have indicated that they do not foresee any delay, but in response to the comment on the State Treaty, I would like to say that I will also look at whether there is a logical hook for me to make a phone call once about the importance we attach in the Netherlands to a timely repair of that bridge and to restore that connection quickly. There is no guarantee that the pace can be increased because, as in the Netherlands, there will sometimes be deadlines for things in Germany. But if there is a reason or a hook to also show from the national level that we attach importance to this, then we must do so, in support of what the province does.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u157	I'm very glad to hear that. I would ask the Secretary of State to do the same, because indeed there is a concrete hook and more than one hook. I am pleased that the Secretary of State wishes to do so, and it would be very nice if we could hear from the MIRT meeting how that discussion went.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u158	I will see if we can even reconnect something about this in the international trail I just referred to in the progress letter. But you'd like to have it before the note conference MIRT. If that does not work, we will do our best to inform you about it at the MIRT memo consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u159	Mr. Ziengs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u160	I was just triggered by the Secretary of State's comment on coach companies. She indicated that she could not directly play a role in this, but she could play a role with the Secretary of State of EZK. I remember traveling to Malieveld more than six months ago with colleagues Schonis and Van Aalst, and then visiting coach companies. I did come across a point about those zero-em mission zones. Just those coaches, who often travel with tourists, saw the shower already in 2025. They said: we already have no money to invest and we really need to invest in buses that are allowed to do so. That's a role the Secretary of State can play, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u161	Sure. Then Mr Ziengs hits another point, the zero emission zones. I think we should keep two things apart. On the one hand, there is a system of tightening up environmental zones, for which cities can choose. They're not going to zero emission by 2025. So that in general. Then there is also the agreement in the Climate Agreement to create zero emission zones for logistics in different city centers, about 30 to 40 cities. We have said that an evaluation will be carried out in 2024 anyway to see if other modalities could be added. Then the question will also come up when the coaches might be ready. So that wasn't decided now. It is not now decided that this will apply to those coaches.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u162	Then I suggest that you deal with the following subjects as well. I don't know how long you're gonna need?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u163	This is sustainable mobility and climate. Maybe that's what this question was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u164	Mrs. Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u165	I would very much have liked a response from the Secretary of State to our proposal to see if we could use some of the availability fee as in Belgium at the Hello Belgium Railpass. The aim was to support both the public transport companies and to get people back on the train and to stimulate the tourism sector in the Netherlands. It's about the three blows. This is an incredible success in Belgium. In the Netherlands, we spend a lot of money on support for public health. That is really necessary, but how nice it would be if we could combine that with a measure to get people back on the train at a time that is possible, given Corona.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u166	That question was in the written answer, but I understand that Mrs Kröger would like to deal with it orally. We have built up the availability fee in the Netherlands in such a way that we compensate the carriers for the passengers who are not there. So it's not like we're buying the whole train. So that's how the availability fee works. If we were to implement Mrs Kröger's plan, that would mean an extra bill for the taxpayer, because it is of course not free; someone always pays for it. Also in the system as we have in the availability fee, we deduct the income from the fee paid by carriers for the costs due to each traveler who goes on the train and buys a ticket. So if we're going to hand out free tickets, that means less revenue. So that means it's not free. As I indicated in the written reply, we can, of course, see with the carriers whether they can think in due course about what is possible outside the availability fee. I understand very well that Mrs Kröger says "we can show people that it is nice and nice to ride the train; let people enjoy it," but that has to be outside the availability fee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u167	Last question, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u168	At the moment, we have reserved money to compensate the public transport companies up to 93%. So we're all counting on spending that money. In fact, we know from the projections of the public transport companies that they are not going to make it to 93%, so they will have fewer people on the train than 93% and that this money, in other words, will also be spent. Then it is quite possible to say: part of that money, or part of that second route, so that comes before the second half of 2021, are we going to use it to seduce people to get back on that train? Now we've all actually paid for empty seats. That is really necessary and it was very good that we did that. Only, there will also be a moment, coming summer, that we do not want people to fly to Barcelona for €25. How great would it be if they went to Maastricht for a nice day. So I just hope that the Secretary of State will take a creative look at how we can use this support to the public sector in such a way that it serves multiple purposes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u169	Mrs Kröger is talking about 93%, but the money we have reserved has not been deliberately tied to a certain amount because it must be able to breathe with what is needed for the sector. Passenger numbers can decrease, as they are now. We went into a second semi-lockdown. This means that the number of passengers, which was rising, has decreased again. Our availability fee provides that that arrangement will then be able to breathe with what is needed to keep that public service in the air. That's why we made a reservation. It's not a certain amount, so of "this is it and when it's gone, it's gone" or "if there's any left, it's still for the D." That's not how the arrangement works. You're actually asking for extra money to give people a free ticket. Otherwise, the money would be returned to our joint pot of taxpayers' money, of which we will soon have a lot of bills to pay each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u170	I am going to Mr Laçin, or were you planning... No, you're through your interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u171	Mr President, I think I have one question left, because I have just made an interruption. I still hear a very small amount of room from the Secretary of State to check with these O.V. companies. If we encourage people to take the train again, for example by allowing a piece of OV support in one way or another to benefit people who otherwise... These are additional travelers, people who offer you something during the off-peak hours, on weekends, during the holidays. This has an economical spin-off, because it also helps the catering company and the tourism sector. Maybe she wants to see what's possible, maybe with the colleague of Economic Affairs, Secretary of State Keijzer. Can we turn this into a package that will stimulate both the public transport sector and the tourism sector in the summer of 2021? Can we take an example from Belgium?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u172	I think it is important to note that the idea that it is free is not true. We can consider whether we want to make money for something, but that cannot be done from the availability fee itself. I think that is important to stress. Furthermore, I think it is a very sympathetic idea. I also understand what Mrs Kröger is all about, but the availability fee is for the public service. There's a reason we have a budget that breathes. That also means that windfalls are real windfalls. Besides, we already have a huge corona account to pay each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u173	Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u174	I would like to continue with the availability fee, especially for the second half of 2021. I would first like to say that the Secretary of State gave a whole list of international lines, but forgot to mention Heerlen-Aachen. That is what I had to say on behalf of Mr Amhaouch. We'd like to hear that confirmed later. Then the question about the availability fee in the second half of 2021. The Secretary of State began her reply by expressing her appreciation for the O.V. sector and also for the staff. But it is precisely that staff e-mails me that they are worried about their future with their O.V. company, whatever that may be. A condition for the availability fee in the second half of 2021 is a transition plan...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u175	You have a lot of introductions! What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u176	The question is coming, Mr President, just a moment's patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u177	No, no, no...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u178	Many workers are waiting for this, Mr President, so I am going to put the question briefly. The transition plan that is being asked must not be at the expense of the employee who is now receiving so much praise and appreciation. What is this Secretary of State going to do to ensure that the requested transition plan is not at the expense of the employees of NS and other carriers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u179	This is what Mr Laçin and I also exchanged in the AO the other day. At that time I said that I really think that the staff of the capital is that we have in our hands. In those transition plans we are supposed to try to look through the coronadip, therefore we also call them transition plans. In the long term, we have a huge challenge in public transport, given the growth forecasts. Before the corona crisis, we were concerned about how we were going to cope with it in terms of staff: are we not short? Do we have the equipment, do we have the people? Do we have all the capital we need? In these transition plans, you look through the corona crisis at the structural effects and how you determine your course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u180	Please continue, because you have two more topics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u181	Yes, two topics, Mr. Chairman. First, sustainable mobility and climate. The sustainability of our mobility is a great and necessary ambition for the Netherlands. Mr Dijkstra, his own experienced expert with both a Porsche and two scooters, already illustrated our mobility behaviour with figures, but I would like to add one more: we travel the world 13,000 times a day for study, work, relaxation and freight transport. So we're a pretty mobile crowd. We also know the downside. We have recently been able to see how the air clears up when transport stops. Transport also generates air pollution and 20% of CO2 emissions. How beautiful it would be if the economy were to turn completely again, if everyone could be on the road again, while at the same time keeping that air clean and reducing emissions. That's what we're working towards. Clean air is vital. Mr. Chairman. With the implementation of the mobility pillar of the Climate Agreement, we are on track with a mix of measures: green d, clean fuel, electric driving, hydrogen and sustainable urban logistics. It is very good that this year we will end up on 1,000 emission-free buses. We are now at about 20% of buses in the Netherlands. Three years ago, that was 4%. We also give the bike a good job. The increasing number of cyclists we are going to catch well with extra fast bike routes and OV-bicycle parkings. Of the 17 fast bicycle routes that the Empire co-finances, 13 are now being built. Construction will start next year for the remaining four. Then the O.V. bike sheds. In the coalition agreement, 74 million was earmarked for additional investments in bicycle storage at junctions. Very important for that comfortable journey from door to door. It is also fantastic that during this period I was allowed to open the largest bicycle storage facility in the world, with which we got almost all the international media. This year I will announce where I will be building additional bicycle storage facilities at the Ov nodes with provinces and transport regions, as a result of that extra money. With these investments there are 600,000 bicycle parking spaces in the Netherlands in 2025. In addition, we are working with the regions on a national picture of the future for the bike. This gives us insight into missing links for cyclists in the national cycling network, cycling routes and bicycle parking facilities. This provides a basis for an approach to encourage even more Dutch people to take the bike more often and to continue cycling. Especially at this time of corona many people have also discovered the bike. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked about electric transport. The common thread was affordability and security. In order to comply with the agreements of the Paris Agreement, the cabinet aims at 100% new sales of emission-free cars by 2040. This will result in a significant reduction of 3 megatons. This only increases in the following years to a ultimately emission-free fleet. With agreements in the Climate Agreement, we have given this ambition concrete hands and feet. We want electric driving to become an attractive and affordable option for everyone in the long term. Therefore, the framework conditions must be in order, with good charging infrastructure and security of tariffs. About that affordability. The cabinet has made an effort to bring the electric car closer for private individuals as well. We have used this by reducing the incentive for the higher segment, by reducing the cap and gradually increasing the add-on. There are more and more middle-class electric models that are also interesting for the second-hand market in the long term, on which the cabinet is very consciously committed. Many individuals still hike at the high purchase price, despite the fact that the "fueling" of course has become much cheaper. With the subsidy scheme we have lowered that threshold so that electric driving becomes more accessible for a larger group than just for the business drivers. There again special attention to the second-hand market. The cars also more and more meet the needs of the motorist. The range of models is increasing, even for small and compact cars. On average, a Dutchman drives around 32 km a day by car. Then the range of action also appears to be more than sufficient for the majority of those rides. As the first ruler to travel by electric car to the outskirts of the country, I say to Mr. Graus that he would still be surprised at what can be done. The one about the effectiveness of EV. Then it's about safety. Electric cars are as safe as cars that run on petrol or diesel. This was confirmed last week by CE Delft, which conducted independent research into safety and electric passenger cars. That report looked, among other things, at vehicle safety, fire safety, incident control and loading infrastructure. Safety risks for electric cars usually also apply to conventional cars. By the way, the cabinet once had a working visit to the fire department in The Hague. There we also got to see how the firefighters are trained to deal with this new technology, because that does require a bit of extra training, but there is also a strong focus on that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the framework conditions must also be in order. With municipalities, provinces and network operators I have made agreements on the realisation of a nationwide covering, reliable and future-proof network of loading posts. They are in full swing with it. Then we look not only at passenger cars, but also at freight, buses and ships. This year, the National Agenda Load Infrastructure Steering Committee will draw up a mid-term review. Major calls for tenders have recently been launched in several regions. Over the past ten months, around 10,000 additional public charging points have been realized. Mrs. Dik-Faber asked about the Green Deal Autodelen. She asked if the target has been reached and if we can still get on with it. A number of beautiful goals have actually been achieved very early. On the question of repacking, I say to Mrs Dik-Faber: yes, we are going to work with a Green Deal III. At first the focus was on professional providers, but in the new deal we will also involve the important neighbourhood initiatives. You have drawn attention to this on a number of occasions. For example, insurance could be an issue. Well, that's the kind of point we'll discuss. We'll see how we can find a place for that kind of neighborhood initiative. So we're going to work with Green Deal Autoparten III. Then the zero-emission zones for city logistics. Mr Ziegs paid particular attention to this in his speech. The Climate Agreement agreed to work towards the introduction of zero emission zones for urban logistics from 2025. We are indeed talking to a few dozen municipalities about its introduction. Early next year we will announce which municipalities will make the transition first. The agreement is that this is always announced four years in advance, to give everyone time to prepare themselves. I think it is very important that we manage this transition. Mr Graus and Mr Ziengs had some questions about this and also some concerns, given the entrepreneurs. Yeah, they're having a hard time. That is why I think it is particularly important that we respond to entrepreneurs when they switch to a clean van or a clean truck. Mr Ziegs asked how we would keep the introduction of zero emission zones for urban logistics affordable and feasible and not leave entrepreneurs in the cold. Mr Stoffer also drew attention to this. These points have indeed been central to the preparation in the past year. We have had very intensive consultations with SMEs-Netherlands, municipalities and evofenedex. We really came to a set of appointments together. At the heart of it are: sufficient time to take into account the necessary adjustments... the four years I was talking about... and a gradual transition for different types of vans and trucks between 2025 and 2030 that takes into account the age of the vehicle. For example, Euro 5 vans until 2027 and Euro 6 vans until 2028 have the time to make the switch, because they are already cleaner. The Euro 6 trucks will have time until 2030. We also keep a finger on the wrist, so that we know whether the worldwide production of zero-emission system cars is sufficient for the Dutch market. We provide a subsidy scheme to assist in the transition to zero emission. Particular attention is paid to the people with a "driving toolbox." That's what we called it when we talked about the Climate Agreement. These are often people who have to change from a Euro 4 van. We pay particular attention to this. The market for zero-emission vans and trucks is now in strong motion. There is more and more choice and for small entrepreneurs there is besides buying the option of leasing an emission-free van or truck. I am happy to meet entrepreneurs when they want to buy a zero emission van or truck. For emission-free trucks, we have, among other things, the DKTI scheme, which will enter into force at the beginning of 2021. And we are working on a subsidy scheme for emission-free vans, which we hope will enter into force at the beginning of 2021. In addition, there is an investment deduction, the BIK, which is still subject to discussion. For small entrepreneurs such as the handyman there is also the KIA, the small scale investment deduction. This helps to make investing in a clean van or truck also fiscally attractive. Once you have it, the use is of course much cheaper, but we also want to help you get over that first bump. Mr Ziengs asked for particular attention for entrepreneurs with older vans. Sure, we have an eye for that. I have agreed with the SME Netherlands that, in addition to offering the above-mentioned subsidy schemes, we are looking at how we can accommodate the owners of a Euroclass 4 van. For them, the step is bigger than for people who already drive a Euro 5 bus or a Euro 6 bus. In addition, municipalities may grant exemptions to entrepreneurs when they are faced with unreasonable costs due to circumstances. That is what the hardship clause is all about. For an occasional job, logistics hubs on the outskirts of the city are also examined and the search for collaboration with other entrepreneurs, who do have an electric van. Of course, there must also be sufficient charging points. The builder who takes his van home must be able to charge at night at his house. So, together with all the parties involved, I work in the National Agenda Loading Infrastructure on a nationwide coverage network. Distributed across the Netherlands, several trials start in early 2021 with public loading areas for trucks and vans. Then there was one last question in this block, about parcel services. That was also a question from Mr Ziegs, who asked: there are six vans per hour driving down the street; can't that be a little smarter? Many parcel services have already optimized their logistics process, but often there is still room for improvement. The logistics hubs on the outskirts of the city could play an important role in this. I also had the opportunity to make a nice work visit in Amsterdam, where that was organized. Several suppliers can deliver their packages there. Saves a lot of vans in town. Return logistics can also be better organised. This is all taken up in the innovation agenda of the Climate Agreement. The industry organisation of the e-commerce, Thuiswinkel.org, has previously introduced the Conscious Concerned Tool. Together with them, I am currently conducting a study into the possibilities for consumers to order more sustainable products, for example by providing insight into what is the most sustainable delivery option. You also often see very interesting combinations of e.g. grocery providers that bring packages back. So there is a lot going on, but it is right that attention has been paid to this. That was my second block, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u182	You had a question, a short question, as always, Mr. Graus? But not really.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u183	First of all, is the Secretary of State still speaking separately about public transport safety or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u184	I mentioned public transport safety in the first block among the points we are working hard on. I know that the PVV has always paid a lot of attention to this. Together with the PVV, I once tabled another motion as MP for the text alert on the train. That has now entered into force. I also know that an initiative paper from Mr Van Aalst has been announced. I congratulated Mr Van Aalst for this in the AO, because it always takes a lot of time to draw up such a plan. We look forward to the treatment, which I believe is already planned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u185	Mr Graus is afraid to ask after all these compliments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u186	Yes, I do. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for that, because it is certainly up to my colleagues. They should also use dogs on the routes where there is always trampling, because if you put one dog, one Mechelen shepherd, on a train or bus, it's over, believe me. They have to handle that much smarter, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u187	Unless it's a labrador, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u188	...that way they can protect our people. Indeed, shepherds and pit bulls are often better for that than labradors. I hope the Secretary of State agrees. But my question is about the environmental zones. I have specifically asked for attention for fairs and circuses. Those people often have older trucks. They don't make any more money at all; they all go to hell. They often have to go through an environmental zone to drive to the edge of a city, where they build their circus or carnival. Then they leave again step foots. Those people can't afford that. We can't ask these people to buy new trucks, can we? Can't an exemption or something be arranged for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u189	There are two types of exemptions in it. In any case, there will be a generic list of exemptions for a number of vehicles where it is not real to expect them to become zero emissions. Previously, fairground vehicles were covered by the regular environmental zones. In addition, each city can grant exemptions. That's what I meant by the hardship clause. I can imagine that we are discussing with the municipalities that, for example, the entry and exit of carnival vehicles is included. So we are paying attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u190	Now we're almost there. I meant it for those occasional rides. They bring affordable entertainment for Jan with the hat, for everyone, and therefore bring together. That's what we need at this time. Is the Secretary of State prepared, with the Association of Dutch Municipalities, the VNG, to ensure that there is some kind of uniformity in this? Because in some municipalities, these people are having such a hard time, and why? While the people, the consumers who use such a carnival or circus, want that everywhere. Otherwise people will also be discriminated against by a certain local authority. It shouldn't be possible. So there has to be uniformity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u191	When we consult the subsidy scheme, we will also come again with a letter. We will make clear what, as far as we are concerned, are the categories covered by the exceptions. And out of my mind: for the environmental zones, I think we already had the carnival in between. But I shall look at it further at the request of Mr Graus. Mr. Chairman. Then the third block, sustainability and circular economy. That is a subject that Members of Parliament know about for a long time, since 2010 when I became a Member of Parliament. I've seen it grow from motions to national ambition. And that is partly thanks to the broad support in the Chamber. All AO's were always a summary of: can there be more, can it be faster and can we move forward? Of course, that's always a party: if you're responsible for such an area and you see that everyone wants more. And we also see that we are making progress with each other. CE is becoming more visible. We build bridges of flax and resin, we make old concrete new concrete, we make old and polluted steel new steel again. I recently opened a beautiful factory in the north of the country with the King. We're already very good at recycling. From old mattresses we make new mattresses again. We are getting better at making new materials of old material, but we are also rediscovering the value of repair and reuse. The examples are increasing, but we are still at the beginning. We know that, too. This also applies to measurements and monitoring of progress. A whole new measurement system has been designed by the Planning Office for the Environment, because of course we want to know if our policies are effective and efficient. You have to be able to measure for that. The Netherlands is the world's first country to map the progress of the circular targets in this thorough manner. At the end of January, I expect the first results. These are important steps, also to show how circular economy can contribute to combating climate change. The Netherlands is also seen internationally as a frontrunner. A good proof of this is the World Circular Economy Forum that we can organise in April. We are really going to use that conference to raise the link between CE and climate on the international agenda. Because if we do not focus on circular economy, we will not only ignore half of the problem but also half of the solutions. And those are exactly solutions that many entrepreneurs are very keen to work with and which can also bring employment with them, TNO calculated. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the answer to the questions. First up is the SUP, the Single-Use Plastics Directive. Mrs Kröger asks if I can put more ambition into the implementation of the European directive against disposable plastic, but my first priority is to ensure that the SUP directive is implemented in time, i.e. before the deadline. And that can only be done with pure implementation. You will soon receive the first letter on this subject. However, I am not going to leave it at that. In parallel, I am working on a broader approach than just the European SUP measures. We are still examining the exact measures, because a good justification is important. For example, I look at options such as pricing, encouraging re-use but also at specific offers and prohibitions. It's very simple. With all the sewer tubes, plant pots and shampoo bottles you're actually wondering: why would we use new plastic for that? I have more ambition in this direction, but we must ensure that both this SUP Directive and those other proposals are implemented in time. That must be done in parallel. In January 2021, I will send a letter to the Chamber setting out my plans for that parallel, broader, complementary approach. This could include legislative proposals. However, we do not mix it with the implementation of the European directive, which would result in this delay and would not be on time. Mrs Kröger asks if I want to make a full commitment to an export ban on plastic waste. Yes. The export of waste is subject to international rules. Even now, the export of waste from the EU is only allowed if it is recovered. Unfortunately, this is not always good in practice. Many of you have referred to that NRC article on Turkey. Of course, everyone is very upset about that. I cannot change these international rules unilaterally, but I am committed to strengthening them at European and international level. I also believe that within the EU we should be able to clean up our waste ourselves and process it in high quality. I believe that we should only export waste if the environmentally responsible treatment is properly secured. We cannot do that as the Netherlands and also as Europe alone. That is why I would also like to work to increase recycling capacity, both in the Netherlands and in the EU as a whole. Right now, as a ministry, we're talking to the waste industry about future plans. I have just indicated that we are committed to strengthening rules internationally, but we are also committed to strengthening cooperation with other countries on the functioning of the rules in practice. Because you can have rules on the one hand, but often it is also about good cooperation to keep that chain closed. That's what we do with Indonesia and Vietnam. I have mentioned some examples of this. So, as far as I'm concerned, it's No one wants to see industrial packaging waste lying on a Turkish beach. I'll get back to you in a minute. We are also taking measures to tackle the packaging waste business more effectively. Mr Ziengs rightly asked me a number of questions about waste collection and quality. When we talk about the circular economy and when we talk about recycling, we really shouldn't just stare at quantity. It's really about quality. It'll decide what you can do with it after that. Since 2016 we have taken many actions to improve the separation of waste and also reduce the amount of residual waste from households. On average, this trend is also positive. In 2019, compared to 2015, we had a quarter less residual waste per person per year. That's -25% in a few years. That's really good. The percentage of waste separation was 50% in 2015 and 65% in 2019, so we are also going to separate more. We are fully committed to this with various actions, such as the attack plan gft-waste and textiles. I would also mention the hand-outs for tackling contaminated waste and textiles and new recycling targets and circular targets. The new European measurement methods focus better on quality. So it's really important that this new method of measurement has been put in place. I work together with municipalities and companies on this issue. Mr Ziengs is right that there are still a lot of steps to be taken. We have to keep doing that. In addition to quantity, we must continue to make a real effort to improve quality at all times. Mrs Kröger asked about monitoring the requirements at the top ten most common packagings. In fact, she asked about the prevention of rubbish packaging and about the essential requirements. Indeed, the ILT is committed to identifying the most relevant plastic packaging for monitoring and subsequently to focusing on monitoring the application of the essential requirements. They're really going to look at: what are the most relevant flows? "More than just those shampoo lessons?" Yes. That goes beyond the shampoo lessons. ILT's just gonna make a good analysis of it. I sometimes say: textile is the new plastic. The fact that we have to and can handle plastic, I think it's written on everyone's retina. Textiles, I think, is the new plastic, in the sense that after the oil sector the textile industry is the second most polluting sector in the world. There's really a lot to do. Textile is also often plastic, so there is also an important overlap in it. But the good news is that there can be a lot better there too. In this area, too, I come across a lot of entrepreneurs who are very keen and enthusiastic about it. The circular textile policy programme that I sent to your Chamber this year set ambitious targets for the sustainability of the textile sector. I recently closed the Denim Deal, in which a large number of parties from the denim sector - those are just the companies themselves - have joined forces to get to work on this. To give a little insight into their enthusiasm: they had first proposed to me to come up with an objective of 1 million jeans. But then there were so many parties that before they launched the Denim Deal, they had already gone to 3 million jeans. So there's a lot of movement, a lot of energy in that sector. Fortunately, more and more consumers also opt for durable clothing. I see the market playing into that too. Before you think "that might be just the niches, the companies that have always been sustainable or that are focusing on a small, specific segment of the market," I say: we also see Zeeman and H&M playing into it. We also see a growing market for second-hand clothing. Mrs Van Eijs has asked a number of other questions about textiles. At the beginning of the corona crisis there was talk that collected textiles remained in place, but that has already been eliminated. Most collectors have sold the collected textiles and the textile market has started again. Mrs Van Eijs also asked about the burning. Incineration of raw materials does not fit in a circular economy. There is also a decreasing trend in the amount of unused textiles burned in the Netherlands. We want to discourage that burning further, so that this trend is continued. At the moment, in the LAP3, the Rural Waste Management Plan, recycling is the minimum standard, but we want to see if we can tighten that up. By the way, I would prefer to turn the National Waste Management Plan into the National Recycling Plan, but I will come back to you with the intentions I have on that point. Mrs Van Eijs asked if UPV could still help. Oh, yeah. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked very strongly about this. In the policy programme I mentioned earlier, I indicated that I would come forward with a proposal for extended producer responsibility in spring 2021. Sectoral organisations are currently working on this. In parallel to that, I will have a study carried out on the extensive producer responsibility for textiles. That investigation has now begun. Mrs Van Eijs says she is happy with the extra resources for the circular economy. I am also, of course, glad that we have been able to take it off. It asks whether the 10 million per year is intended for the current programme or for changes of course. The resources have been made available to continue the current lines, but also to be able to deploy higher on the R ladder. That was also a recommendation from the Court of Auditors. I have two more leaves, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Dik-Faber asked about the roundabout of raw materials and said that a market for recycling is needed. Absolutely. My commitment is to achieve a mandatory application of recyclate at European level, one might say, a mandatory number of sustainable products. Mr Wassenberg asked why the deposit money was not extended to all variants, because he wanted to keep it simple. Then he started mentioning so many different packages that I thought, if you want to keep it simple, you just have to stick to the plastic and the cans. We have settled a 20-year discussion and set the goal together. Station money on bottles has become a fact and for cans we are currently following the same path as for bottles.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u192	I saw Mrs. Dik-Faber, who wants to ask me something. I have Mrs Dik-Faber, Mr Ziengs, Mrs Van Eijs and Mr Laçin. Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u193	The raw materials roundabout appears to be the Secretary of State from the time we were both MPs. I'm still MPs. I think the idea comes from her tube. I'm not quite sure, but I've heard her say the word a lot. Where are we now as the Netherlands with that roundabout of raw materials? I notice that there are many ambitions when it comes to the circular economy, but that the structure for collecting, sorting and recycling is not yet a good one. If we aim to achieve this and embrace the objective, what is the role of business and what can the government do? What does the Secretary of State see as her own role in lifting the roundabout of raw materials in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u194	We first started in the Netherlands by stimulating a lot of pilots. That was very nice and we have seen many good examples of what the circular economy can do. When I started, I said: I want to do three things during this period: structure, scaling up and accelerating. For structuring, we have come up with a national-wide implementation programme with different pillars, because we always want to bring the parties together in all these pillars to see what is needed to make progress. And that also means scaling up. In addition, there is the whole measuring instrumentarium. We're gonna see where we stand at the beginning of next year. Then you have an image of the points where we can further sharpen and accelerate in an effective and efficient way. We'll speed up with the Acceleration House. In width, it is important for all these pillars to see what the bottlenecks are. When a company wants something, it often says: we need someone else. Within the Acceleration House, we're bringing all these parties together. This has led, for example, to the construction of a beautiful new factory for the recycling of old mattresses, because we have also ensured uniform producer responsibility in mattresses. Then there's a reason to invest in a mattresses factory, because you know that power is being supplied. There is therefore no single answer to the question of where we stand or whether there is sufficient or insufficient capacity. You have to keep looking inside the chain to see what's needed. That analysis is done everywhere. We always look at which parties are needed and how we bring them together to bring it there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u195	It won't surprise the Secretary of State that I want to get one power out of it. That's textile. I'm wearing recycled material clothes myself today. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u196	It looks really nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u197	There's not much that's gonna happen. We've made an appointment in the Denim Deal. I think it's a nice example of 3 million jeans with 20% recyclate in them. I think the agreement that you're using recycled material is a huge boost to collect and process it. Why do we only do that with jeans and it doesn't happen with cotton and other fabrics?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u198	The textile industry is a very international market. So we must always ensure that we find the chain with which we can make that agreement, unless you can go so far in Europe as you simply lay it down in European legislation. That would be my preference, so that we really ensure a mandatory share sustainable. For plastic, I expect that proposal very soon. I know that the Commission is also looking at compulsory shares for other chains. Then you can just stick to all the parties in the chain. I think it is very nice and I fully share with Mrs Dik-Faber that we need to build in incentives to make the collection pay, because you know that these raw materials are being used again. For plastic we are a bit further, but for textiles we also want to go that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u199	Then I am also very curious to see how this debate is going in Europe. Is that conversation going on? Can we present knowledge from the Netherlands? And do we from the Netherlands insist on a significant percentage of recycling in the textile flows? Is it on the European agenda? I think we can give it a huge boost.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u200	The answer is three times yes. This is discussed in the context of the European Action Plan for a circular economy. I have also personally urged the Commissioner to come forward with the proposal on plastic as soon as possible. The other flows are also being looked at. We in the Netherlands are very happy to bring all our knowledge and skills to Brussels as part of the decision-making process there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u201	Mr Ziengs and Mrs Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u202	The Secretary of State went through the questions I had asked in the first term quite quickly. I did say that we should look more at quality rather than quantity. The Secretary of State replied that she is going to look at this in a broad sense. Does this mean that there is another way of dealing with the system that is now being used for subsidies made available on kilos from the Waste Fund? The second point that came through in my input was corporate waste. I do not believe that I have seen this go back completely in the answer given by the Secretary of State. It was briefly mentioned. The third point I made in my speech was the so-called separation, and I drew attention to the fact that the machines could do better than the people themselves. Maybe the Secretary of State can reflect on that for a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u203	I think many of those questions were in the written answer. The Waste Fund itself, of course, deals with how it organises its incentives. However, we have recently offered municipalities and waste fund together the opportunity to organise certain chains more efficiently. There is certainly a link to the issue raised by Mr Ziengs. Mr Ziengs is asking about industrial waste. Now there is only producer responsibility for consumer waste. We're also gonna bring the garbage underneath. This means that there is also an incentive to separate it better. That's definitely gonna help. For the pre-divorce and post-divorce, European regulation provides some basic principles, namely that pre-divorce is the basis for a number of flows. However, municipalities also have a certain freedom to depart from it themselves. I'm not going to restrict the municipalities in that freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u204	First of all, thank you for answering the questions on textiles. I'd like to talk about it further, but I only have two more questions. My question is about the Acceleration House. The Secretary of State replied to the questions in writing. It replies that regulations that stand in the way of companies wishing to operate circularly are being picked up by the Acceleration House. I understand that this is mainly about monitoring and persevering, but it is less far-reaching than, for example, the window we had in the past for Space in Rules. Right now, the Acceleration House can't really talk to the Ministry. I also hear from parties within the Acceleration House that they would like to, because they want to look more actively with the Ministry at those rules that get in the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u205	Then we have to open a few hatches there, because it is absolutely my intention to use that acceleration house to really figure out where the bottlenecks are. If there are any bottlenecks in the regulation, I want to know. Then we can consider whether we need to adapt to that. That information must be able to go on. I will ask my people to see how, in this sense, we can open the shutters between the acceleration house and the ministry, so that this kind of cases and information are clearly on the table with us. We all benefit from being able to put our finger exactly where it pinches.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u206	Then I won't bring up the worms that I've drawn attention to before. My first tip is to take a look at the website. I've really had to find a way to indicate that rules get in the way. There's not a very clear button you can press. Maybe that could be a little improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u207	We're gonna make a button with "these rules are in my way." We're gonna come up with something nice for that. Right: if you want to get started with circular economy, you need to know where to go. If you want to tell me what you're up against, it should be easy to pass that on. That's another thing than it can be solved right away. At least this should be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u208	Gentlemen, you are too close together. I can see it in front of me: tomorrow it will be on all kinds of social media and in e-mails. Two months in quarantine. Mr. Laçin, it was your turn. You don't have to? Mrs. Postma, you will be rewarded for standing there so neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u209	Because I'm keeping my distance. I'd like to ask a question about the coaches. We're very happy that you're talking to each other. We hear it's high on the agenda. You have just promised Mr Stoffer that we will soon be able to expect the results of the discussion. I liked what you said about making vans more sustainable. You have big investment plans for that. They're really gonna take entrepreneurs and help them out. Now there are coach companies that have coaches with a Euro 5 standard or Euro 6 standard. These are very nice buses and also very expensive buses. They cost about two and a half tons apiece, I've been told. How nice it would be for both the coach sector and for the sustainability gains if we looked at a buy-back scheme for older buses. We can then see if we can get companies along that way. My question to the Secretary of State is whether she would like to take these considerations with her and tell us about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u210	I think it's important not to raise expectations that I don't think can be fulfilled. With Mrs Keijzer, I think it is important that the concerns of this sector are taken into account, but I cannot anticipate any buy-back arrangements. People might get hope for something we can't live up to. I've certainly heard the suggestion. As such it is registered, but I must leave it at that for now. Mrs Emperor and I believe that this sector also needs attention. We want to see what the situation is. I cannot therefore say exactly when we will come back to this, but I have heard the suggestion. I don't know if that's gonna be easy, I'll just say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u211	A brief question, Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u212	I'm gonna do my best, Mr. Chairman. I drew attention to the situation surrounding Tata Steel in my speech yesterday. In the written reply, the Secretary of State responded by saying that she is regularly informed. There's gonna be a committee that's gonna look at the VTH system. Now we see that time and time again from different studies comes that the number of cancer cases around that factory is much higher than the national average. As far as I am concerned, this is not only a problem in terms of authorisation but also in terms of public health. The government certainly plays a role in this. I would therefore like to ask this Secretary of State when she will be taking action in the cabinet with her colleagues and looking at public health and not just environmental permits. This problem is now much bigger than just the wrong permits, or a province that can't keep up with it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u213	Mr Laçin is asking me to do this, but we are not discussing the public health budget with each other. I'm looking at the environmental permit. That's my responsibility in the cabinet. I can imagine the concerns of the people in the region. You bring this forward here and we have talked about it several times in the AO's. To be honest, I am very pleased with the way in which the deputy is dealing with things at the moment. He's really on top of it and he's really serious about it. This does not remove all the concerns of the population. I understand that very well. But I'm happy with the way he's handling things there right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u214	To reduce the emissions of all these substances, it is likely that an investment of 2.5 to 5 billion will be needed. That's not gonna solve the deputy or the county. This is about cleaner production, the environment and the environment. We have to solve this nationwide problem, and the government must intervene. You can't look at a deputy in this. He's not gonna make a $5 billion investment. There is now a takeover. That's in EZK again. I know. But how are this cabinet and this Secretary of State going to take that role to protect that living environment there, protect public health and force this company to produce cleaner in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u215	From the Ministry we constantly play our part in this, insofar as it concerns our part and our piece in this very large and wide and complex issue. For example, the ILT even at a certain point in time was of course no one pleased to bring a lawsuit because it was of the opinion that licences were wrongly not tightened. So from IenW we really keep an eye on our role here. I understand the concerns of people in the area. I understand that Mr Laçin is bringing that up here. Indeed, the situation surrounding this company is really complex, including the takeover situation and so on, to which Mr Laçin refers. We really do what we have to do from our portfolio on the environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u216	Thank you. I think you were done, weren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u217	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u218	Thank you. That is indeed the end of the government's first term. I shall suspend the sitting until 8.30 p.m. I see you guys watching. Then you guys can calm down a little bit. You guys really deserve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u219	Shall we do 8:15?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u220	No, 8:30. I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u221	We will continue with the budget of Infrastructure and Water State. We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Graus on behalf of the PVV, with his beautiful shoes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u222	Mr. Laçin says that opinions on my shoes are divided: jealous!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u223	I like them. At SP, they don't have shoes like that. Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u224	Mr. Chairman. I've got five short motions so I'm gonna have to rattle them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u225	I'd say go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u226	I have to do it in two minutes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are many problems on the track that are hitting entrepreneurs hard;]] [[believes that entrepreneurs should be able to take action;]] [[calls on the Government to freeze the user fee for rail freight until the railway infrastructure is restored,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a great deal of late maintenance of roads and works of art;]] [[considers that this could lead to life-threatening situations;]] [[calls on the Government to speed up the delay in the maintenance of roads and works of art,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many N-roads are still too unsafe in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that the approach to road safety on N roads is inadequate;]] [[consider that these roads should be rapidly safer;]] [[calls on the government to speed up the handling of unsafe N-roads,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the reduction in the maximum speed to 100 km/h has led to longer travel times and more inconvenience for the driver;]] [[considers that the measure is completely ridiculous and unnecessary;]] [[calls on the Government to reverse the reduction in the maximum speed;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-14]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-15]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Postma, Mr Remco Dijkstra and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-16]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus, Mr Van Aalst and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u227	We're the car party, Mr. Baudet. He didn't hear my input, so that's why he said his party is the car party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u228	Before you continue, Mrs Kröger would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u229	I have a question. In tabling this motion, is it intended that the seven MIRT projects that would be made with the nitrogen space of that reduction in speed should be withdrawn? Well, then it's kind of a trade-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u230	The Minister has heard the request and is about to respond to it. We simply want the speed limit to go off and the Netherlands to flow quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u231	If the speed limit goes off the table, it could mean that those seven MIRT projects just go into the fridge. That's how the PVV sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u232	You have heard my request. I'd be happy to read it to you again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u233	No, don't do that. It's okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u234	It's more important that we reverse the speed limit, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u235	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u236	The final motion, Madam President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that driving has become increasingly expensive in recent years;]] [[considers that driving should be affordable;]] [[points out that it is desirable to set a specific target for reducing car charges for the next cabinet period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u237	I would prefer to do so by means of a zero measurement, which I also mentioned in the interrupting debate with Mr Dijkstra. I wish you a very good evening, Madam President. Don't forget to put your shoe on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u238	I'm definitely gonna do that. Thank you, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u239	Something's gonna come up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u240	Yeah, I hope so, too, from Mr. Saint Nicholas. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Remco Dijkstra on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are putting two motions to the vote in July this year. The first motion is from Mr Ziegs cum suis and concerns a legislative proposal which reduces the small fines. We're still waiting on that. The other motion that we are going to vote on is a motion on the Trans-European Network and the opportunities of, above all, the international connection between the Netherlands and Scandinavia. I have the numbers here, so they can be processed immediately. Mr Amhaouch of the CDA also wishes to join in the final motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u242	Then the motion will be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u243	Thank you. Then I have two motions, but first I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for the last three years. They've been very patient with us, with the committee. You've always been full of passion and enthusiasm and that was great to see. We have learned a great deal about this ourselves, and we have been able to do our job as we feel we should. I also thank you for all the answers. Yesterday we received 35 pages, but even though we have asked hundreds or dozens or a lot of questions about aviation, about circular economy, about roads, about all the subjects that pass by here. There's a very large team of civil servants behind them who work every now and then deep into the night to get that done. Thank you very much for that. That's what I wanted to say. Then I am not going to talk about my own mobility at home, because I also have five bicycles, I would like to pass on to Mrs Van Veldhoven, besides all the cars and all the other conditions. Mr President, I have two further motions, if I may. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there will be a lot of housing around the port of Amsterdam and that this may put established companies at a disadvantage;]] [[Whereas maintaining jobs and the future of companies in the port area depends on the space they have to undertake;]] [[Whereas the Empire has a national interest to monitor the port and shipping routes;]] [[whereas, although the city council of Amsterdam has a port vision, the balance of national interest must be guaranteed, including by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State and Rijkswater State itself;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Province, to weigh up the full interests of industry, living and working, and in particular the maintenance of water-related activities such as the manufacturing industry with, for example, Damen shipyard, so that they can be preserved for the port of Amsterdam,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Remco Dijkstra, Mr Laçin, Mr Postma, Mr Stoffer and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u244	My second motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the importance of affordable car mobility continues to be high even after the corona crisis;]] [[Whereas there are opportunities to rejuvenate the current fleet and thereby make it more sustainable and safer;]] [[noting that there are concerns about the affordability of car mobility from different political points of view;]] [[calls on the Government to examine concrete policy options to make car mobility more affordable, e.g. by reducing the burden on motorists on balance, and to outline the advantages and disadvantages thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Remco Dijkstra, Mr Stoffer, Mr Postma and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u245	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u246	Thank you, Mr. Remco Dijkstra. I now give the floor to Mr Ziengs, also on behalf of the VDD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u247	Thank you, Mr President. After the fine words of Mr Dijkstra, who began to give a little farewell speech here, I do not think I am going to do that. I have to say, however, that I was pleased to see this budget debate as a first-term member of the staff. I had a brief debate on that. I was hoping he'd be here tonight. Unfortunately, that is not the case. Apparently, my story about the seagull had predictive value. You know it: that gull comes flying over, drops a little and then leaves screaming again. Yeah, I got right again. Too bad, actually. That brings me to the motions. I have one motion that is somewhat more detailed in the operative part than it should actually be, because the Secretary of State has more or less already made a commitment to it. I am going to table the whole motion, but I am aware of that commitment. Otherwise, I'd have to change her again. So I thought I'd just do it like this and see if that change is still necessary. The motion feasible and affordable zero emission zones: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that from 2025 it will be possible for municipalities to introduce zero emission zones for urban logistics;]] [[Considering that by 2025, approximately 50,000 emission-free vans are expected to be available, with an increase to 115,000 in 2030, and that this contrasts with the current fleet of around 950,000 vans;]] [[noting that approximately half of these 950,000 cars fall under Euroclass 4 (or below), and that they will be immediately excluded from the inner cities by 2025;]] [[Whereas, in view of the impact of the corona crisis on entrepreneurs, there is doubt as to whether it is feasible and affordable for entrepreneurs to make the transition to emission-free vehicles in time;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of supporting operators with vehicles in Euroclass 4 in the transition to zero emission and to discuss with municipalities a clear local policy regarding exemptions for entrepreneurs who are unable to have an emission-free vehicle in time due to force majeure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ziengs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u248	Thank you. So that was indeed a motion that was somewhat more extensive than in fact should have been. Then there is the motion for an integral policy on air quality. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that most companies are doing their utmost to comply with new laws and regulations and are already investing in improving air quality thanks to existing European and Dutch climate, air and nitrogen legislation;]] [[Whereas synergies exist between climate legislation and the improvement of air quality, but the effects (costs and (health) benefits) of this have not yet been adequately identified;]] [[Whereas such an overview could prevent companies from taking sub-optimal measures, taking into account the results already achieved by investment in the energy transition;]] [[Whereas efforts should be made to maximise overall environmental benefits per euro invested;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the overall costs for companies and the effects of existing climate, nitrogen and air quality measures taken from different ministries by means of an integrated impact study and to take these results into account in the further development of the legislation and regulations on the Clean Air Agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ziengs and Mr von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u249	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u250	Are you taking the motions to the clerk's office? Then they can be numbered for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u251	I had to think again which route to walk. But it did have to be that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u252	The new M.O. is very confusing. Thank you, Mr. Seengs. I now give the floor to Mrs Kröger on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u253	Mr. Chairman. I've got four motions, so I'm gonna start fast. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Minister recently announced that she had signed the A27 route decision;]] [[Whereas the current plan is liable to damage the special estate of Amelisweerd;]] [[Whereas the usefulness and necessity of the project is called into question by a new reality with regard to traffic movements, nitrogen and climate;]] [[Whereas it is a risky project, both in terms of cost overruns and in terms of technology;]] [[Whereas the legal sustainability of the route decision is questionable due to the lack of a proper legal framework with regard to nitrogen;]] [[points out that care goes beyond speed and wants to see an integrated approach to the nitrogen crisis before a final decision is taken on the A27;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain the publication of the proposed route decision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas night trains can be a climate-friendly alternative to different European flight routes;]] [[noting that very soon the first night train connection will return to the Netherlands, partly thanks to efforts and a contribution from the Ministry of IenW;]] [[noting that there are now initiatives for new night trains from Sweden, Austria, Switzerland and Belgium;]] [[calls on the Government to actively engage in the realisation of more connections to more cities in Europe, to engage with potential partners, countries and transporters, and to explore, and facilitate, what is needed for new routes in the context of the international market exploration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Belgium has successfully introduced the Hello Belgium Railpass;]] [[Whereas many cultural institutions and the domestic catering industry, the holiday and leisure sectors have suffered a great deal under the constraints;]] [[Invites the government to examine a Dutch variant on the Hello Belgium Railpass, together with the OB companies and Translink, which supports OB companies in attracting travellers as soon as the corona situation permits,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Laçin and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-23]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-24]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u254	Finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is of great social importance that decisions on state projects be carefully taken and that they remain legal;]] [[calls on the government to submit a final environmental impact assessment to the Commission in the case of state-owned projects. for a final opinion before taking decisions;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u255	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I hope that in the second term the Minister will clarify those digital stocks with the nitrogen calculations, which were delivered to the Ministry of Economic Affairs on 7 April 2014. These are files mentioned in this document of NLR. They're files from NLR. The fact that I have to ask for this again, while we as a Chamber have said several times "we want to see everything about nitrogen; we want to have everything on the table about how the calculations for Lelystad Airport were made," leads me to the following. One. I expect we'll get those files in a week. Two. Can the Minister guarantee us that there are no further files, notes or opinions on the nitrogen calculations that contributed to the decision on Lelystad Airport in 2015? And if there are, I'll ask you to send these to the Chamber within a week. We cannot do our job if we have to ask time and time again for information to be searched. As a Chamber, we try to reach transparent decisions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u256	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. Mr Remco Dijkstra has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u257	I wonder if, if that information comes up, the position of GroenLinks will change. Isn't it obvious that GroenLinks is against this airport?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u258	Perhaps in contrast to Mr Dijkstra, who is actually following the mantra of 'we decided something once and then we stay there and we stick our heads in the sand', I think it is important that as a Chamber we distinguish between our political positions on the one hand, and indeed, as a GroenLinks, we are absolutely not in favour of Lelystad Airport and, as far as we are concerned, we do not open up that airport and, on the other hand, the work we do as MPs to make pure, good decisions. What happened here with Lelystad Airport, where residents have to make mistakes from reports over and over again, after which we as MPs have to ask the Minister if we can please get the information to verify and find out, I find truly unheard of. It's two different things. On the one hand, there is our position on Lelystad Airport. On the other hand, I hope that Mr Dijkstra will do the same. We are here at 150, and it is our job to ensure that this cabinet, that this minister does her job well. That can only be done if the information is on the table, and that is simply not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u259	Finally, Mr Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u260	I agree. The controlling task is very important. I wish you every success in formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u261	I don't know what this encore means. Is Mr Dijkstra now suggesting that you can only participate in a formation and sit in a cabinet if you are not transparent about all the information and send your reports to the Chamber with which you have been cheated? Isn't that a very crazy assumption?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u262	No, I just think you're gonna turn this point in real quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u263	Good. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Postma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u264	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the debate. Thank you for the answers. I've got a couple of motions, and I'm gonna read them to you first, so I don't have one. After that, I have a few more questions. The first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the measures taken during the corona crisis have significantly reduced congestion;]] [[Whereas after the corona crisis there will be a social and practical need to be more physically present at the workplace;]] [[Whereas employers and workers have also gained positive experiences in working more and more flexibly at home, which can continue to be used to reduce congestion;]] [[calls on the government to make concrete arrangements with employers to encourage smarter and more flexible (home) work so as to reduce congestion in a structural way and to inform the Chamber before the ceremony,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Postma, Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Schonis and Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u265	Breathe, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u266	Yeah, that's important. Easy, take a sip of water.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u267	Now I have another far too long motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that distractions are among the most frequently involved in the occurrence of fatal accidents;]] [[noting that road users notice fewer things during affixing, playing games and social media use, become less alert to dangers, react more slowly to things that happen around them and move less in straight lines;]] [[whereas it is therefore very important for road safety that these operations are not permitted while driving, but that this has been made perfectly clear to date only if these operations are carried out on a mobile electronic device in the hand;]] [[Whereas research carried out by SWOV shows that a negative influence on the driving and viewing behaviour of hand-operated taps is almost as great as when tapping the phone into the holder, whereby SWOV indicates that, from the point of view of road safety, tapping a phone in a holder is undesirable and only a ban on holding a phone sends a wrong signal to the road user;]] [[calls on the Government to make it absolutely clear that acts such as appendecides, games and social media use are not allowed at all while driving and to inform the Court of Justice of the way in which it intends to clarify this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Postma, Mr Van der Graaf and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u268	Third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in accordance with the Maritime Labour Convention (MAV), the Netherlands has a duty to give form and content to the care of seamen's well-being and this obligation is mainly fulfilled by the so-called seamen's houses present in several Dutch port cities;]] [[Whereas the functioning of these seamen's homes is threatened by insufficient and unstable financing;]] [[noting that the uncertainty about the financing might lead to the closure of a number of seamen's houses, which has a negative impact on the attractiveness of Dutch ports and the well-being of seafarers calling at Dutch ports;]] [[Calls on the Government to consult with SZW, relevant municipalities, welfare organisations and port companies to examine what is needed to ensure stable financing of the seamen's homes in order to ensure survival, and to inform the Chamber of the results of the consultations by March 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Postma, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Laçin and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u269	Then there's a motion that's touching here, too. I actually wanted to submit this to the VSO Sustainability, but it was taken off the agenda because of corona. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the subsidy scheme covers private individuals for separate budgets for new electric passenger cars (EUR 152 million) and used electric passenger cars (EUR 100 million);]] [[noting that within one year the arrangements may be placed between them, if necessary, but as long as they are within the overall budget;]] [[Whereas, in view of the importance of stimulating the second-hand market for medium-sized electric passenger cars, it is important that the pot for used electric passenger cars is not refreshed by new sales;]] [[calls on the Government not to move within the scheme with budget for used electric passenger cars to new electric passenger cars,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Postma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u270	I have one more question, about the matrix boards and the display of the speed that can be driven at that time. In our view, this is a welcome support for the road user who occasionally loses his way in terms of speed. We understand that the promised trial on the A27 cannot continue because of corona and the changing traffic picture. We understand that. We do hope that everything is ready and that it can start again as soon as everything is a bit normal on the road. We ask the Minister to take into account the introduction of the current speed display when the matrix boards and side systems are being replaced, which will soon be done. Mr. Chairman. I'll have some time left. I would like to thank everyone, especially the Minister and the Secretary of State for this fine budget and for the last few years. I was one of the last to join this committee. I have always thought it was a very nice committee, so I would also like to thank my fellow Members. Many of them are going to say goodbye. I have to say, I'm very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u271	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u272	It's such a fine commission!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u273	Thank you, Mrs Postma, very kind of you to say so. I now give the floor to Mr Amhaouch, also on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u274	Mr President, I shall begin with the motions, after which I will emotionally say goodbye to a number of people. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that trains are understaffed in the different off-peak hours;]] [[Whereas the TurboPlan2020 contains a number of concepts for combining light goods transport with passenger transport, as is the case in aviation;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[examine whether and how light goods transport can be combined with passenger transport on trains as proposed in the concepts of the TurboPlan2020;]] [[including how trains, stations and legislation should be adapted;]] [[inform the Chamber of the AO MIRT in spring 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that seven of our twelve provinces are bordering Germany and Belgium and the aim is to make the train a good alternative to short-distance travel;]] [[Considering the importance of a joint commitment to join forces with the European Commission and the importance of making progress in achieving cross-border rail connections to Belgium and Germany;]] [[calls on the Government to organise an (online) trilateral rail summit Netherlands/Germany/Belgium before 1 March 2021 in order to come up with concrete solutions and arrangements through an integrated future image 2030/2040 cross-border rail,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Ziengs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-31]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Schonis, Mr Kröger, Mr Laçin, Mr Ziegs, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Stoffer and Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u275	The final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that stations have an important regional function, but this is often not reflected in the appearance of the station;]] [[whereas the concept of community stations in the United Kingdom is a great success with more than 1,000 stations that have become part of the local community by right to challenge;]] [[Whereas community initiatives in the Netherlands are hardly heard about stations;]] [[Calls on the Government, together with the (potential) initiators of right to challenge stations, to explore the legal and financial implications of this, thereby enabling transporters, railway operators, local companies and local authorities to become part of the local community;]] [[calls on the Government to send a concrete proposal to the Chamber before 1 April 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u276	Mr. Chairman. A question has not yet been answered in the term of the Secretary of State, which was about making the first class accessible to second-class travellers in the corona time if necessary by overcrowded trains, mainly in rush hour. Mr. Chairman. The CDA continues to worry about the vibrations and the poison trains. We have already said that. We really need to take a look at that. The development we are seeing is that the frequencies are getting higher and more is going to be built. Let's be on time. The Secretary of State said that she would inform us of this in good time. Then I have one more question for the Minister. We received a letter this week from Minister Wiebes of Economic Affairs, also on behalf of IenW and the Prime Minister. He was about the developments at VDL Nedcar. For us, that's a bit of a shadowy letter. We don't really know what to do with that. I would once again ask the Minister whether she is also talking to the province of Limburg, so that in the short term we can see what the great needs and questions are and the province is being heard. Because this important file also plays in the province.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u277	Thank you, Mr. Amhaouch. I now give the floor to Mr Laçin on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Speaking of shady letters and constructions, the A27 Amelisweerd. I agree with what Mrs Kröger said. The way in which the Minister deals with this is worrying and not transparent. That shouldn't be the way to do it either. I therefore hope that there will be broad support for Mrs Kröger's motion, which I have co-signed. Mr. Chairman. I have a number of motions of my own. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the 2000 Passenger Transport Act requires provincial authorities to award their urban and regional transport services;]] [[noting that the municipalities of Rotterdam, Amsterdam and The Hague are excluded and that their urban transport is granted directly to municipal transport companies;]] [[considers that public transport is a vital public service and should not be left to the market;]] [[calls on the Government to allow the granting of transport concessions on a national basis and to take the necessary steps to this end as quickly as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u279	Now to the point that we have made together with Mr Amhaouch: the 1.5 meter and the first and second class on the train. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is important to comply with the one and a half meter distance rule on the train;]] [[Whereas distance at peak moments is not always possible;]] [[Whereas the first class in the train is often less crowded than the second class;]] [[calls on the Government to consult all transport operators in order to explore whether, at corona time, the first class may be opened to second-class travellers at very busy times in which safety is at stake,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin and Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u280	Then there's the situation surrounding Tata Steel, Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that another study has been published showing that the number of cases of cancer in the Tata Steel area is sometimes 50% higher than the national average;]] [[Whereas the protection of public health is the responsibility of the government;]] [[noting that stopping the emission of harmful substances can have far-reaching consequences for the farm;]] [[calls on the government to take charge of the situation surrounding Tata Steel and to do everything in its power to protect public health,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u281	Finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Rijkswaterstaat will review and, where necessary, update more than 800 water discharge permits in the coming years;]] [[Whereas the discharge of sometimes prohibited substances will continue in the meantime;]] [[considers that this is undesirable and unacceptable;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan to stop the discharge of prohibited substances as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Van Raan and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u282	Then I would like to thank both directors for their reply. I'm not saying goodbye yet, because we're still gonna see each other in different debates. And when we say goodbye, we do that coronaproof in Laçin style; we do that nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u283	Then you're gonna hug everyone when Corona's over. Thank you, Mr. Laçin. I now give the floor to Mr Schonis on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u284	Mr. Graus was just talking about saying goodbye. That's right. I'd like to take a look back. I remember very well the moment I will remember for a long time that, more than two years ago, I made my maiden speech in the same setting. It was about the Stint. That was a very moving moment, for several people here in the room. It was a special moment that will always have a special place in my heart. Having said that, I would like to table a number of motions for resolutions, because we are going back to order today. I have two motions on the railway, one on the sea and one on the road, because we were talking about land, sea and air. My first motion concerns the future of rail freight transport. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the future picture of OV 2040 presents a clear picture of the future of passenger transport by rail, but that rail freight transport has not been included;]] [[Whereas a similar vision for rail freight transport is desirable in order to provide a good future for this rail sector;]] [[Whereas rail freight transport also raises other issues, for example with regard to the transport of dangerous substances in the Rail and Noise and Vibration Network;]] [[calls on the Government to present a vision on rail freight transport, similar to the Future Picture OV 2040, which also takes into account the current functioning of the Rail Base and issues of noise and vibration nuisance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Schonis and Mr Ziengs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u285	Then a motion on more trains to London. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the train link from Amsterdam to London has been a direct link since 2020 with the Netherlands, France, Belgium and the United Kingdom working together to best serve the traveller;]] [[noting that the Eurostar makes this trip three times a day, while at the same time 60 flights depart from Amsterdam to London;]] [[calls on the Government to examine what is needed to adapt infrastructure, stations and equipment to allow a larger number of trains to run on the Amsterdam-London route,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schonis and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u286	Then there's a motion on the Coast Guard. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Research Council for Safety (OVV) made clear recommendations in response to the container disaster involving the MSC Zoe;]] [[noting that at present the Coast Guard can only advise on the routes across the Wadden Sea that container ships wish to take;]] [[Whereas the examination carried out by the OVV has shown that, in certain weather conditions on the routes along the Wadden Sea, there is a high risk for container vessels;]] [[Whereas the Coast Guard with traffic guidance can contribute to reducing this risk;]] [[Calls on the Government to give the Coast Guard the power to undertake non-free traffic guidance in the event of storm conditions in the Wadden Sea;]] [[calls on the Government also to enter into consultations with Germany and Denmark with a view to reaching the same arrangement pending the outcome of consultations with the IMO,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schonis and Mr Postma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u287	Then there is the subject we have talked about a lot today, namely the toll-free Westerschelde tunnel, or rather the Westerschelde tunnel. Yes, Mr. Laçin, that's how Zeeland gets a good look.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u288	Mr Gijs van Dijk will be back immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u289	Look, he's even coming back for it, look at that! [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Westerschelde tunnel is the only toll tunnel in the Netherlands which is charged until 2033 on the basis of the Tunnelwet Westerschelde;]] [[whereas this makes Zeeland-Vlaanderen the only part of the country in the Netherlands that is connected exclusively to the rest of the country via a toll road;]] [[Whereas this fact has an impact on the social and economic strength of this region and so far it is not known what these effects are;]] [[Calls on the Government, in consultation with the region, to examine the social and economic effects of a toll-free tunnel on Zeeland-Flanders and on Zeeland as a whole;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the region, to examine the financial possibilities for making the Westerschelde tunnel toll-free, looking at different funding models, and to inform the Court of Justice of this for the forthcoming cabinet formation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Schonis, Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Postma and Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u290	I would like to ask Mr Schonis if he has any idea how many investigations have already been carried out into the effects of a toll-free tunnel.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u291	In fact, I have more than any idea. Before I came here to the Chamber, I was a member of state in Zeeland. That's when I saw some of those tests myself. One of them was the infamous investigation Tolweg or Tol away? It's been some global or very specific research. There has never been a complete picture of what toll-free would do for Zeeland and Zeeland-Flanders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u292	Finally, Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u293	And yet those investigations also had conclusions. Can you share it with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u294	Yes, I can share it with you. One conclusion is that of course there are direct effects, that it becomes easier to travel from north to south via Zeeland, because then you no longer have those costs. But there are also other effects that have not been investigated. Broad welfare aspects. This is also what we are asking for in the new Mobility Fund for all other projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u295	Please continue. Or were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u296	With the motions, yes. I did have a question, a little on the toll tunnel, about the fine subject of charging. I have just congratulated the Minister on her price, which she herself said: I have also received it for the introduction of the truck tax. Then I thought: but wait a minute; we still need to get that bill. I have seen on the Council of State's website that the opinion on the Maut, the truck tax, has now been published, but we have not yet had the bill here in the Chamber. This week may be a little short notice, but I wonder if we can have that next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u297	Thank you, Mr. Schonis. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs, also on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u298	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. So I'm just gonna start with that. The first motion concerns textiles. No one's gonna be surprised. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is necessary to avoid as much as possible the burning of textiles;]] [[noting that recycling is included in the National Waste Management Plan as a minimum standard for textiles, but that derogations may be made where textiles are no longer suitable for recycling and/or there are no possibilities for application;]] [[calls on the Government to work towards a ban on waste incineration by specifying more explicitly the land on which textiles are suitable for recycling and subsequently to be laid down in the National Waste Management Plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Eijs and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u299	Then I have a motion on the Acceleration House. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in 2050 we want to be completely circular;]] [[Considering that entrepreneurs in the transition to circular management run into complex issues around, among other things, regulation;]] [[Whereas since its launch in February 2019 the Accelerator House has already created 500 online matches, has built a community of 5,000 members and has further helped 150 individual companies;]] [[Whereas entrepreneurs are also faced with legal and regulatory problems and currently have no place in the Acceleration House;]] [[Calls on the Government to use the Accelerator House as a hotline for tight circular economy regulations and to actively investigate these notifications and inform the Court;]] [[calls on the Government to continue its efforts in the context of continuity to continue funding for the important work of the Acceleration House beyond 2024;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that environmental legislation stands and falls under enforcement;]] [[noting that many inspections have been postponed or can no longer be made unannounced due to corona, and that in the previous two years the proportion of unannounced inspections has been around 30% (in the most risky BRZO+ companies);]] [[Calls on the Government to work towards more unannounced controls and to inform the Chamber of the percentage of unannounced inspections annually at the time of publication of the State of Security Brzo companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-43]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u300	I'm not going to say farewell, but I had to remember my very first debate here. That was about Chemours. In that, together with Mrs Kröger, I advocated making a blood test available to the local residents. Now I had to think about Tata Steel and the neighbors there, who are worried about their health. So I would like to ask if the Secretary of State can see, possibly with her colleagues in the cabinet, if we can offer the residents something to better monitor their health, so that lung cancer can be detected earlier. That might mean something to the neighbors. We're not going to reverse lung damage 30 years ago, but we might be able to offer this to the neighbors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u301	Thank you, Mrs Van Eijs. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u302	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answers given by the Secretary of State and the Minister. A compliment to you, too, because I think you have been sitting in front of us for 11 hours. First Social Affairs and now IenW. All the compliments for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u303	Thank you. I really like you guys.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u304	It turns out that's a good sign, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u305	It's not punishment, Mr. Graus, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u306	That's true. Maybe that's what we're doing. But it's a serious compliment. I have two motions. The first one is about the Westerschelde tunnel. I tabled an amendment with Mr Laçin of the SP. We still hope for support from the Chamber and are really prepared to look at the coverage. We understand perfectly that we are doing it from the IenW budget, if we cannot do it from the general budget. That offer is up to the vote, I think next Tuesday. But now we're on the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u307	You haven't filed a motion yet, have you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u308	I would like to support Mr Gijs van Dijk and give the Chamber a little more room. We will not vote on the amendments until 10 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u309	That's true, yes. We'll be voting on the motions next week. So we've got a little time. Thanks for that. This motion is about the longer term. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the toll of the Westerschelde tunnel leads to great injustice for the Zeeuws and specifically the Zeeuws-Vlamingen;]] [[calls for a toll-free Westerschelde tunnel to be established after the March 2021 elections,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u310	The second point is the situation of truck drivers. The point is that they can also just go to the plumbing and eat. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that drivers, after a whole day in the cabin, cannot have a hot meal or use sanitary facilities;]] [[calls on the Government to assess the impact of the corona measures on working conditions and safety in truck parking and to take immediate action where necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u311	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u312	Thank you, Mr. Gijs van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u313	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister, the Secretary of State and their officials very much for the answers and for the fact that we were able to receive them so early this morning. I tend to do a rather regular budget treatment, but it's not that common that I get them on time. I'd like to give that to you. I am very pleased with the answers and with the Minister's response to our action plan on road safety around schools. In this coalition and this government period, this minister has paid a great deal of attention to road safety. That's what's needed. Yesterday, Mr. Stoffer shared an example. We know that there are almost ten accidents a day in schools. That's just ten too many. I am pleased that the Minister says that she is going to point out to municipalities that she will start that pilot. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her answers on accessible public transport. I have a motion on that. I'm going to read it and file it now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas people with disabilities experience daily obstacles to travel by public transport and the laws and regulations which require the strengthening and adaptation of the accessibility requirements for public transport;]] [[calls on the Government to conclude an administrative agreement by 1 March 2021 at the latest, setting out the accessibility requirements and launching the subsequent legislative process as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Schonis, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Stoffer, Mr Laçin, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Ziegs and Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u314	Then the Westerschelde tunnel. Roads are being built throughout the Netherlands without any thought being given to the possibility of taking a toll on them. The Christian Union has made no secret of it, even yesterday, that we very much want us to abolish that toll in the Westerschelde tunnel. That is why I have signed the motion that Mr Schonis has just proposed and tabled. We are curious, in view of the new formation, to see if we can take good steps there. I will conclude with a comment on cross-border rail. I referred in my contribution to a state treaty between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and Germany. That's a very old treaty. The specific obligation it lays down is that a number of railway crossings across the border will be maintained, with the aim of maintaining the link between the two peoples. Very specific is the connection Nieuweschans-Weener, where the Frisenbrücke was broken up. That treaty dates back to 1874. I wish the Secretary of State success with her German colleagues, because they too have a great challenge in terms of management and maintenance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u315	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber, also on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u316	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for answering all the questions, both in writing and in the debate. I know that there is a lot of administrative capacity behind it, so thank you very much for them too. I've heard everyone speak very nice words about goodbye, but I haven't left yet. I don't know if that goes for the other people here. We have a budget debate today, a special moment, but we will continue until March 2021. That's four more months. So we're gonna work together for a little while. I saw the debates on the agenda today until February. That goodbye is gonna come again. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to make two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the textile chain currently operating represents a major burden on the environment and the climate;]] [[having noted that the Circular Textile Policy Programme was published in April 2020, including plans for voluntary extended producer responsibility (UPD);]] [[Considering the importance of textiles becoming part of the circular economy;]] [[Whereas the trend of fast fashion has become more apparent as a result of the corona crisis;]] [[calls on the government to develop regulations on the extensive producer responsibility of the textile industry, which include at least:]] [[collection & recycling objectives;]] [[product design aimed at recycling;]] [[differentiated transition contribution;]] [[and seek to decide in the first quarter 2021 on its introduction if voluntary UPD does not show sufficient progress on these issues,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u317	That was a soft stick behind the door towards the textile industry to make real work of this. The second motion has intersections with the area of the Home Secretary and Kingdom Relations. If necessary, I am prepared to hold the motion in order to receive its verdict on this motion as well. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government committed itself in the Climate Agreement to the goal of allowing all new cars to be emission-free by 2030;]] [[noting that, inter alia, by means of regulations, the Empire intends to support the deployment of the necessary loading infrastructure;]] [[Whereas in the case of new housing in which there are at least 10 parking spaces, the Building Decision requires charging infrastructure for each parking area;]] [[Whereas the requirements for new utility building relating to loading infrastructure are not ambitious, which will lead to unnecessary costs at a later stage;]] [[calls on the Government to strengthen the Construction Decision (point 5.15.2) by March 2021 so that at least half of the parking spaces in new utility buildings are equipped with electrical charging lines,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u318	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u319	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u320	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Can I have a minute or two, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u321	Yeah, you passed that on. Four minutes, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u322	I've got eight motions. I sometimes say it's not the number, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u323	It's about quality!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u324	Exactly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that consultations with residents of airports have been stalled several times in recent years;]] [[Whereas, in a number of European countries, the involvement of residents in important social issues is enhanced by the establishment of civil panels, and the experience is positive;]] [[having noted the Mulder c.s. motion adopted, (32813, No. 578) on the possibilities of civil panels;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider how civil panels or civilian tables can be used as a tool to strengthen consultations on the future of airports;]] [[calls on the Government to present this investigation before the March 2021 elections so that any decision on this can be taken at the cabinet formation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Kröger, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Laçin, Mr Bruins, Mr Schonis and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u325	Then a short one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to reduce the number of aircraft movements to and from Dutch airports to a maximum of 300,000 per year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the planned broadening of the A27 will result in the loss of a valuable part of historical nature in Amelisweerd and cannot be repaired by nature compensation;]] [[noting that the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State continues to use more asphalt against better knowledge and refuses to recognise the consequences of the climate and biodiversity crisis;]] [[calls on the Government to stop immediately the preparations for the broadening of the A27 at Amelisweerd,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that creative beverage packaging is currently on the market to avoid deposit money;]] [[Whereas the system of beverage packaging should be as simple as possible for citizens;]] [[declares that the avoidance of deposit is undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how to prevent the avoidance of deposit money on beverage packaging,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that wood smoke causes a great deal of environmental pollution and health damage and that there is (cost-effective) policy;]] [[calls on the Government to establish an objective for the phasing out of woodburning stoves,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-51]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Van Esch, Mr Kröger and Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-52]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Raan, Mr Van Esch, Mr Kröger, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Stoffer and Mr Laçin.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-53]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Van Esch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u326	Three more, Mr. Chairman. We're on our way. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the dumping of fragmented tyres is prohibited in nature;]] [[noting that the dumping of fragmented car tyres entering nature via an artificial turf field is permitted;]] [[calls on the Government to phase out the use of fragmented car tyres in artificial turf fields,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the emission of balloons is a form of environmental pollution;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit the release of balloons at national level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in the absence of government policy, the number of packages is still growing every year;]] [[noting that reduction in the number of packages is preferable to subsequent recycling;]] [[calls on the Government to set an ambitious and concrete reduction target for plastic packaging in the short term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Van Esch, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-55]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Raan, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Van Esch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-56]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Raan, Mr Van Esch, Mr Kröger, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Stoffer and Mr Laçin.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u327	That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u328	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u329	Mr President, I only have two. I'll read it to you soon. I mean, emotions. I had a lot more good ideas, but I don't have the time. The first motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that the Chamber, by way of the Stoffer motion (35570-XIII, No. 57) called for a maritime recovery plan;]] [[Whereas the fleet of the Rijksrederij is in need of replacement;]] [[Whereas the government through the Rijksrederij as a launching customer can stimulate sustainable innovations in the shipbuilding sector;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider the possibilities for investing in the Reichsrederij's fleet replacement programme, to examine, in consultation with the sector, what is needed to make the ships more sustainable and the possibilities for the Rijksrederij to act as a launching customer, and to inform the Chamber of Commerce before the summer of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer and Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u330	And then the next one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the available resources in the Infrastructure Fund will increasingly need to be used for the growing table of contents;]] [[having regard to the approach presented by the Minister for the transition vital infrastructure sector;]] [[considers that it is very important for regional employment for SMEs to have sufficient opportunities to compete for maintenance and renovation contracts;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that in Rijkswaterstaat's procurement portfolio there remains scope for SMEs by continuing the development of the network, for example by combining short-term measures against congestion issues, small-scale improvements in the network, sustainability or road safety with conservation work,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer and Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XII-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u331	Mr. Chairman. I'm a long way from saying goodbye, so I'm not gonna say goodbye. We're gonna go on for a few months. The only thing that is special is that I was first allowed to work for both rulers. I think their first six months actually went much better than the two and a half years after that. But I'm pretty happy about that, too. I'd like to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u332	Oh, thank God. Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State. How much more time do you guys need? First, the motions need to be copied and enjoyed. Fifteen minutes, is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u333	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u334	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start by answering a few questions that are still open. Then I shall deal with the amendments and then with the motions. The questions. The first one was Mrs. Postma's, about the matrix boards. She asked whether we should also take account of the fact that there will soon be sufficient traffic in the procurement of road side systems. The replacement of these systems is, of course, necessary, but you can rest assured: we will be ready as soon as the traffic resumes. So we'll take that into account. Mr Amhaouch has asked questions about VDL Nedcar. He thought the letter was a little cryptic. Yeah, I get that. He can be assured that I am in good contact with deputy Mackus of the province of Limburg. We are very good at hanging out with this important player in Limburg, in these important projects. Mr Schonis asked about the truck tax. The advice is indeed in. There is now a great deal of public work to be done to deal with this. We will do our utmost to get to the Chamber as soon as possible, in accordance with the agreement we have with you. Then there is Mrs Kröger's question about the NLR import stocks in relation to Lelystad. It specifically requested input stocks from 2014 used for the emission calculations for Lelystad Airport. We don't have these files. These files were sent by NLR to EZ at the time. I understand that these files have recently been requested by the Ministry of LNV from NLR in response to a submitted Wob request. I will therefore pass on your request to LNV, which has now taken over that part of EZ. She further asked if I still wanted to guarantee that there is no further information on nitrogen that is not yet public. All results of the EIA calculations have been shared with the Chamber. It is not common to send the input data and data files to the Chamber. In the case of Lelystad, it is done. So, as I just said, I will also ask LNV to make the requested files from 2014 public. A guarantee that there isn't ever anything, especially if it's with another ministry now, I can never give it. But we don't have this information, so I can only ask LNV to make this public as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u335	The request was that we get those files within a week. The Minister speaks on behalf of the cabinet. With this response, I assume that the Minister will ask the Minister of LNV to provide us with this within a week. Surely there is a broader question. The Minister refers to the EIA and says: it is not common for us to share all the files. My question was specifically that we want the parts on the basis of which the airport decision was taken in 2015. So we want the different sources of information. That could be input files. Those could be notes. Those could be partial investigations or investigations. We have had to ask time and time again for that information to be able to reconstruct at all how that decision was made in 2015. I am actually asking the Minister if she can ensure that we get all that information. This piece of the puzzle she's admitting to now, but I'd also like her to promise the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u336	I can only repeat that we have already shared all the results of the EIA calculations with the Chamber. With regard to all the files you are now asking for, I will convey the request to LNV to send it to you as soon as possible. I'll say you like it within a week, but I don't know if that's possible for LNV. I'll pass that on in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u337	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u338	Then I come to the amendments. That is Mr Gijs van Dijk's amendment to make the Westerschelde tunnel toll free. We've already exchanged enough about that. He's changed places. He will not be surprised if I betrayed this amendment. Then I'll get to the motions. That's quite a pile. I'll start with the motion in part No. 15. That motion belongs to Mr Graus and calls on us to speed up the maintenance of roads and works of art. I should like to make a comment on the observation. It is found that there is a lot of late maintenance. However, not much of the maintenance is overdue. If I may take it in such a way that you mean delayed maintenance, and not delayed maintenance, then I could give the motion judgment Chamber. I could live with that interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u339	Sure. That's not a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u340	Then I come to the motion on part No. 16. That motion was signed by a lot of people and belongs to Mr Graus. The motion calls for unsafe N-roads to be accelerated. This motion I can give judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u341	Mr. Graus, Mr. Van Aalst will be proud of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u342	I hope that this will be followed, because now we have the motion for a resolution on the reduction in speed. That's the motion in part No. 17 and I'm going to dissuade it, of course. Nor will Mr Graus be surprised that we are not going to reverse that. The next motion by Mr Graus, on item No. 18, it's a speech-expression, so I'm not saying anything about that. That's up to the Chamber. Then I come to the motion on part No. 19 by Mr Dijkstra. This motion concerns the weighing together with the province of integral interests and certainly the interests of the water-related activities in the port of Amsterdam. That motion I can give judgment Chamber. The next motion has also been co-signed by many people. The author is Mr Dijkstra, and this is the motion in part No. 20. This motion concerns the policy options to avoid unnecessary burden on the driver. I'm giving this motion judgment room. Then the motion to part No. 23 by Mrs Kröger. It will not surprise her, given the debate, that I will, of course, discourage the continuation of the Trace decision. The same applies to the motion in part No. 26 by Mrs Kröger. I'd like to discourage that motion, too. I have already responded in writing to this. The motion in part No. 27 from Mrs Postma I can give judgment Chamber. This motion concerns the promotion of smart and flexible work at home. The motion in part No. Mrs Postma's 28 calls on the government to make it absolutely clear that actions such as appendecides, games and using social media are not allowed at all while driving. I would like to take over this motion, because that is actually just part of the current policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u343	Does anyone object to taking over the Postma c.s. motion? in piece No. 28?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u344	That's the motion in part No. 28.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u345	Excuse me, the motion to part No. 28. Mrs. Postma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u346	According to the VVD, I have to be very happy. I'm always happy. There's an important point in the motion. The last sentence is about informing the Chamber about the steps being taken. I have received very nice promises, and that is the case again. I would like to hear from the Minister when that will be. We were talking about "an evaluation next year." That could be early next year or at the end of next year. We'd rather have some...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u347	I can't put a time limit on that right now. Let me say we'll inform you before Christmas when you get this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u348	The motion-Postma c.s. (, No ) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u349	Then I come to the motion on part No. 29. That motion is about the seaman's houses and is also Mrs Postma's. I'd like to discourage the motion in this form. I have said in the written reply, and I have just said in the debate, that I am very sympathetic to this and I am really prepared to look into the problems surrounding these seamen's houses. Since this is really the focus on funding, I think the motion is going too far at the moment. In its present form, I therefore advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u350	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u351	Then the motion to part No. 37 by Mr Laçin. That motion calls for a plan to stop the discharge of banned substances as soon as possible. On prohibited substances, our inspections already maintain them. That's why I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. Mr Schonis's 40th report deals with the recommendations of the MSC Zoe disaster. I also indicated to you later that we are coming up with the OVV response. I would ask the authors to hold this motion until we can debate it. Then we can take everything with us at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u352	I am looking at Mr Schonis. He's nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u353	In the motion in part No. 41 on the Westerschelde tunnel, Mr Schonis has found exactly the right balance, so I can give that motion a Chamber. Then I come to the motion on part No. 44 by Mrs Van Eijs. I fully understand the intention of Mrs Van Eijs, but the ILT, which we are, of course, talking about, is not a Brzo supervisor. The ILT isn't specifically about that. I would actually recommend that you address this in the various Provincial States Groups. That is why I have nothing to do with this motion but to discourage her. The motion in part No. 45 by Mr Gijs van Dijk, also on the Westerschelde tunnel, is a speech-motion, so I do not interfere. The Gijs van Dijk motion in part No. 46 concerns the corona measures. What do they do for working conditions in truck parking? I'd like to map that, so judgment room. On the motion in part No. 50, one from a whole series of Mr Van Raan, I would like to say the following. That motion is about the citizen panels airport investigation. I am currently developing a consultative structure on the basis of the opinion of the Cohen Committee, which you are also familiar with. It also talks about involving citizens, but it is not quite ready for the elections. But if I can fill it out in such a way that you don't hold me to a date for the election, then I can give the motion judgment Chamber. I see that's possible. Then I come to the motion on part No. 51 by Mr Van Raan. The known 300,000 flights. We're gonna go on repeat. I advise against this motion. Then we'll get to the motion in part no. 52. It is almost in line with a motion that was tabled earlier on the A27 and I also advise against that motion. Then suddenly I shoot a piece to the motion at piece number. 58 by Mr Stoffer. He asks to see if we can bring forward a bit about the Rijksrederij and whether we can act as a launching customer. I think that's a good idea, so judgment room. And the same goes for the Stoffer motion in part No. 59, not to forget especially SMEs throughout the tendering calendar for the vital infra. That's what we're gonna do, so judge Room. Then I'm through, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u354	Yes, it is. Thank you. Very good. We'll just wait for the switch to be cleaned. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u355	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the many Members who have congratulated our official staff, because they have indeed worked very hard, until quite late last night and today all day. On behalf of Cora and all of you: thank you very much! There's a representative over there in the bench. He can pass on the compliments. The second is that I would like to repeat what I said at the beginning, in addition to the words of thanks and appreciation for my fellow Members: for the time being, we are going to work very hard together. I think we have proved that again today. If I see which debates are scheduled for the next few weeks, at least we will continue to see Christmas. Let us now move quickly on to the motions. The motion in part No. 14 by Mr Graus. I'd actually like to ask you to hold the motion. I am not going to freeze it, but I understand that you are basically looking for something to do for the freighters. I come with a letter after the Railway Goods Table of 2 December. I would therefore like to ask: hold on to it, see what results we come up with, and then you can see if the spirit of your motion has been adequately met.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u356	Then I'll take the motion, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u357	At the request of Mr Graus, I propose his motion (35570-XII, No. 14), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u358	Thank you very much. The motion in part No. 21 I would like to give a ruling to the Chamber, provided that I can interpret it as follows on the issue of clear local policy with regard to exemptions. In consultation with VNG and municipalities, I will discuss how we can ensure that exemptions are clearly designed. However, the decision to make an exception, due to the specific local circumstances, always remains the consideration of the municipality and not of the Empire. If I may interpret her like that, the motion will be given a Chamber of Appeal. The motion in part No. 22. The sum of air I do, I say to Mr Ziengs. The overall sum of the effects is also with EZK, BZK and LNV. But if I may interpret the motion in such a way that this motion is met by the zero measurement we are going to do at the SLA, and that I will raise the horizontal weighting of the economic burden with the other ministries, then I will leave it to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 24 from Mrs Kröger, I can give a ruling to the Chamber if she deletes one thing. These are the last four words "to facilitate this." I would anticipate the conclusions of an investigation that we are already doing. So if you delete that last piece, I'll give the motion judgment Chamber. Otherwise, I would ask you to apprehend her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u359	Maybe in that research, in that international market exploration, we can see what it takes to make it easier?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u360	Sure. I'm willing to investigate what it takes to facilitate this...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u361	Exactly. The point is that we have that on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u362	...but not to say I'm gonna do it. But I'm gonna map it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u363	Okay. Then I'll adjust it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u364	Perfect. Then that judgment gets Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u365	Okay, then Mr. Graus is happy too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u366	The motion in part No. 25 by Mrs Kröger on the Hello Belgium Railpass. That was an exchange of views in the debate. I'm afraid it's not free, so I'd advise against the motion. The motion in part No. 30 by Mrs Postma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u367	In my view, Mrs Kröger, there has been enough change in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u368	In my opinion, the motion mentions the Hello Belgium Railpass as an example, but it is precisely these parties who are asked to talk to them to see what you can do. Look, we can have another promotional campaign in the abri's with "go with the o's," which is an advertising campaign, but you can also look for other forms to seduce people to go with the o's again, who at the same time support the o's. That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u369	A Dutch variant is requested on the Hello Belgium Railpass. He's gonna start handing out free tickets. I have tried to explain to Mrs Kröger that this is not free, because of the way in which we set up our BVOV. But in addition, of course, I am always in conversation with all the parties about how we can bring about a bright future again. In doing so, we make a clear distinction between what the companies themselves do and what we do as a department. So this is not going to fit in exactly the right way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u370	That too has changed enough. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u371	Mrs Postma's motion on item No. 30 gets judgment room. The motion in part No. 31 by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Ziengs will also be judged Chamber. This is not just about TurboPlan2020, but about that kind of idea. That's why I'm giving the motion judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 32 goes over the top. I am not talking about colleagues' agendas, but I do understand the call for joint action to try to ensure that we can achieve as much as possible together at the European Commission, for example. So, if I may interpret the motion in this way, I'm going to give her judgment room. Look, the question is whether it is always interesting for Belgium to sit at the table with Germany. Of course, we don't always know that either. I cannot say to my colleagues that I am obliging you to present an integral picture of the future before 1 March 2021. But I am certainly willing to call the colleagues to see if we can pull together in a number of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u372	The contacts we have with Belgium and Germany show that they do need them. But I am not asking the Secretary of State to come up with an elaborate plan before 1 March. In any case, I am asking for the trilateral summit to be set in motion; a maximum effort obligation. It is time that we got that summit after three years. You yourself said that the Germans are talking about a number of projects, just like the Belgians. If we can't get Belgium, Germany and the Netherlands together, something's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u373	I can see in the bilateral contacts that there is a great deal of enthusiasm for bilateral talks. We do that all the time. I will also ask my colleagues if they can see the added value of raising the three of us. I'm sure I'll have that conversation before the 1st of March. Then we call it the "trilateral tracktop" if they're interested in that. It's nice that there shouldn't be an integral vision of the future before 1 March, because I didn't think that would be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u374	So what's the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u375	Then the verdict is Chamber, Chairman, with that change. Then the motion to part No. 33. I consider 1 April to be an effort, because I cannot guarantee that the Stations Agenda will be ready. But if that's okay, I'm gonna give Chamber judgment on the motion in part No. 33. So I see it as an effort obligation. Then the motion to part No. 34 by Mr Laçin. It actually asks me to make an adjustment in the Wp2000, but I do not see any need to do so. We recently carried out an evaluation and sent it to the Chamber. That evaluation shows that the system is working well, so I do not see any need for adjustment and therefore I advise against the motion. Then the motion to part No. 35. A question has also been asked by the CDA. It's about first and second grade. I can promise Mr Laçin and also Mr Amhaouch to address this issue with the carriers and the co-governments as concession providers. I would ask Mr Laçin and Mr Amhaouch to hold the motion because I will inform the Chamber of the outcome of the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u376	Mr. Laçin?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u377	That is also what the motion calls for, namely to consult with the transport operators.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u378	"To explore or..." Yeah, that's right. Fine, then we'll judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u379	We're getting somewhere, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u380	We're getting somewhere. At the next motion, the one in part No. 36, we're gonna get a little less far. In it, Mr Laçin asks me to take the direction around Tata. That's primarily up to the company itself. Then it's up to the county and I have every confidence in the way the county handles it, so I advise against this motion. Mrs Van Eijs asked to look at the health effects. This was also the subject of part of Mr Laçin's motion. Is there anything we can do to monitor health better? Maybe people can get a little easier access on their own? As a competent authority, the province really pays full attention to public health and has several investigations carried out, among others by RIVM. I will certainly pass on your request to the province, which is working very seriously on this. I will also pass on your suggestion to my colleague from VWS. I will bring the issue of public health to the attention of the Members who are discussing it, as discussed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u381	I'll come back to the motion. The Secretary of State begins her reply with: it is up to the company itself. So that's what's gone wrong for years, that's the whole problem. Apparently, the approach of the province doesn't work either. I really trust that the province will do its best, but if public health is at stake, which is the case, according to various investigations by the GGD, the Integral Cancer Centre Netherlands and the RIVM, I expect the cabinet to take action to map this out. Now I hear that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u382	Mr Laçin...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u383	I'm not done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u384	Then you must be quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u385	I also hear that the Secretary of State is going to redirect Mrs Van Eijs' question to VWS. We are already heading in the right direction, but I really expect action from the cabinet on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u386	That's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u387	Then it was a good thing that I had Mr Laçin finish his story. That's always good, by the way. I've always done what had to be done where it was Tata. I am pleased that Mr Laçin acknowledges that the province has taken it really well. But once again, as I promised Mrs Van Eijs, I also say to Mr Laçin that I will certainly pass on these points. With these people's concerns about their health, we just have to deal seriously. The motion in part No. Mr Schonis and Mr Ziengs asked for a future picture for freight transport. I would ask the gentlemen to hold the motion for a resolution. In the context of the future picture of the public transport sector, I am looking at the further development of the rail and rail freight transport network. The development agenda for the Future Picture OV, including measures for rail freight transport, will be sent to your Chamber shortly. We're also looking at viability in that. I'd like to ask you to wait and see. If you still believe that a number of elements are missing, we can talk again about what is missing, but then you also have all the information to base yourself on. I would therefore ask you to hold it until I have sent the railway freight package to your Chamber. I think we are talking about this on 2 December, so that is well before the end of the year. Yeah? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u388	At the request of Mr Schonis, I propose his motion (35570-XII, No. 38). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u389	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 39: Judgment Room. The motion by Mrs Van Eijs and Mrs Dik-Faber on item No. 42: Judgment Room. The Van Eijs motion in part No. 43: Judgment Room. The motion by Mrs Van der Graaf and a lot of co-signators in part No. 47 I consider a firm commitment for spring 2021. Judgment Room. The motion by Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Van Eijs to item No. 48: Judgment Room. The motion-Dik-Faber in part No. Forty-nine, I would like to ask you to hold. It is primarily an adaptation of the Building Decision in relation to utility building and that is mainly the concern of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I will discuss with my colleague from BZK what is possible and I will return to that in writing before the end of the year. I therefore request that the motion be held until then. I see Mrs. Dik-Faber nodding, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u390	At the request of Mrs Dik-Faber, I propose her motion (35570-XII, No. 49). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u391	Then the motion of the Party for the Animals in part No. 53. Look, I don't want any evasion, either, but I already indicated when I sent my deposit policy to the Chamber, that we'd keep an eye on that, that we'd keep our finger on the wrist. I would ask Mr Van Raan to hold the motion because I am holding the finger on the wrist. Then he can always come back to me when he says it's going to go all wrong. Otherwise, I'd have to discourage the motion. If there's anything really going on, we're gonna talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u392	We already know something's going on. That is the first observation. There are all kinds of examples of this. I'd like to send it to you. The question is to look at the avoidance that is already taking place and how it can be prevented.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u393	I am not as convinced as Mr Van Raan that these packagings will be placed on the market to avoid deposit money and that they are a problem. Only if it's a problem, you want to solve something. I would still ask him to hold this motion, otherwise I must advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u394	How long?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u395	Until we find out if there really is a problem, yes or no. If there's no problem, we'll never have to go looking for the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u396	I understand the NGOs need to get to work. I'll keep her on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u397	At the request of Mr Van Raan, I propose his motion (35570-XII, No. 53). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u398	The motion in part No. 54 about phasing out all wood stoves is too much for me. There are also people who depend on it, so I'm going to decline the motion. The motion in part No. 55 I also ask you to hold, because I am already carrying out a reconnaissance, and I will inform you about it this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u399	Or what?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u400	Otherwise, I'm gonna dissuade this one, because I'm gonna jump ahead of that reconnaissance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u401	At the request of Mr Van Raan, I propose his motion (35570-XII, No. 55). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u402	The motion in part No. 56 calls for a national ban. We agreed to leave that to the congregations, so I'm not going to ban it as a Empire, and I'm not recommending this motion. The Van Raan c.s. motion. in piece No. 57 is about a reduction target for the number. A legal reduction target cannot be imposed jointly on plastic producers as we do with recycling targets. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 57.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u403	I can tell that it is looked at positively, but perhaps it is in the wording. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u404	Well, then there's a lot in the formulation. I made arrangements in the Plastic Pact, too. I have regularly exchanged this with Mrs Kröger. For example, we want to reduce nonsense plastics and bullshit packs. My entire plastic policy is also aimed at reducing, but a legal reduction target for all plastic producers together will not work. That simply doesn't work, but reducing plastic use is also part of my policy, so I say to Mr Van Raan to reassure him. Mr Dijkstra has again tabled a motion on the TEN-T regulation. I had asked him to hold this motion until the MIRT was dealt with. We'll talk to your room about the MIRT in two weeks. So you're actually just two weeks early. I would therefore ask you to hold this motion until we have discussed the MIRT. Then we can come back to this. There was another question from Mr Stoffer about the coaches. The question was when and how he was informed. We imagine doing this via a collection letter, for example from VWS or EZK. In any case, it will be a cabinet-wide letter. Mr. Chairman. I hope I have answered Members' questions with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u405	Yes. Thank you so much. I thank the Minister. I thank the Secretary of State. Let's see. Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u406	I had to run for a while, because I have tabled another amendment, in part No. 11, by public transport. Of course, that is what the Secretary of State is going to embrace and support, but I hope she will say so herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u407	Mr. Chairman. I believe that we have also answered the amendments in writing, but for the sake of clarity, I naturally also respond to the amendments. The amendment in part No. I am afraid that Mr Laçin's 11 will not be able to advise me. The amendment in part No. Unfortunately, I also have to advise 12 of Mrs Kröger's.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u408	Have all the amendments been dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u409	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u410	Then I want to thank you so much. I would also like to thank the Minister, like the Members of Parliament, the officials for having worked incredibly hard, all those group staff who have supported Members of Parliament in the preparation of the budget, the messengers, the clerks and the Stenographic Service.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-7.u411	We shall vote on the motions next Tuesday.
