ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-5.u1	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Lodders, on behalf of the VVD, for her question on unfair tax attacks on thousands of motorists. Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There's hardly a day when we don't talk about the Tax Office here. Unfortunately, today we are talking about a new mistake. I would like to thank the Minister for explaining this to the Chamber just before the new Secretary of State took office. Mr. Chairman. The case we're discussing today affects over 5,000 hardworking people. They had a hit on a tax they didn't have to pay anyway. We all know by now what kind of stress this can cause in humans, including on this file. There are people who have already sold their cars because of the unfair taxation. That is why I have the following questions for the Minister. How could it happen that so many people got hit that wasn't meant for them? What other mistakes have been made? How are all these mistakes made up for? Is there any contact with the people involved? Is that human contact and doesn't it go through a cold government letter? How is it that in this case, implementation organisations such as the RDW were not in possession of the appropriate information in respect of the registration number................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ What is the Minister doing to improve the right and necessary information? How is it possible that this file is stacked wrongly? The Tax Administration has already put an estimated 11,000 people on the wrong foot about paying the fine dust surcharge. The fine dust supplement, also known as rocktacks, has been postponed for a year because of problems with implementation. Can we now conclude that it was introduced too early?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. In all honesty, I think we are talking here mainly about the RDW, the National Road Traffic Agency. Every Dutchman will immediately agree with Mrs Lodder that we are talking about the heart of the finance minister's portfolio. That is why I have to take a run-up to explain and explain what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-5.u5	Yeah, as long as it's short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-5.u6	It's always short, Mr. Chairman. That supplement is intended to increase the burden on polluting diesel cars without a soot filter. The supplement is announced in the Act Elaboration Autobrief in 2016. Next, Ms. Lodders refers to this amendment in the 2019 Tax Plan. The date of entry into force was then postponed for one year. Then how does that work? The RDW asks all parties in the field which cars are eligible for this. The RDW then informs the Tax Administration of which cars are not provided with data or what these data look like. Here it is avenged that in any case one market player may have been able to deliver more despite the very long period in which you could see this coming, no data. Yeah, then the IRS's gonna go ahead with just a sec of the DMV's records. Next, one of those field parties realizes that and delivers data to the RDW as a hare. The RDW transmits it to the Tax Administration and the Tax Administration does everything in its power to correct it. So I say it with caution, given also what we all have to discuss about the Tax Administration, but I think the image that the Tax Administration has done this wrong really needs some correction. By the way, contact has been made with those who first received an account, which needs to be corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-5.u7	That was the start, now the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-5.u8	I think the answers were all contained in this, because Mrs Lodder asked "how could it happen and how is it made up for?" I think I have answered those two questions. The fact that the RDW has delivered blank to the Tax Administration has to do with market players who, in my view, have not arrived at the RDW in time. As much as I've been digging into the DMV, I don't know all the ins and outs either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-5.u9	The Tax Administration is, of course, dependent on information provided to the service. But my question is: what checks are then carried out before, in this case, more than 5,000 people receive the wrong letter? Earlier on this dossier, 11,000 people were wronged, which has been corrected equally by the Tax Administration. That information must be correct. I am looking for the controls that take place within the Tax Administration before these steps are taken. Over the past few weeks, we have seen several examples of people experiencing problems in dealing with the Tax Administration and therefore in trouble. The Minister certainly knows the example of start-ups who have been waiting for a VAT identification number for weeks. In doing so, too, the Tax Administration carried out hastily measures without taking into account the consequences for the people involved. My question to the Minister is how we will take more account of this in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-5.u10	I want to be precise. I would like to be available for each of these dossiers; see the debate I shared with Mrs Lodders last week. The DMV provides data. The majority of the field parties the RDW is dealing with provide that information correctly, but there is one that is particularly late in doing so. Then you can reasonably not expect the Tax Administration to say: it is not our area of expertise, we do not have that knowledge, yet we go to the RDW "second guessen" about whether all manufacturers and others have provided the right data. There isn't that style figure, and we shouldn't want it. It is really up to the RDW and the sector itself, however much I agree with Mrs Lodder that there is still a lot to be done in relation to other matters in the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-5.u11	Finally, Mr President, I will conclude. I think it is very important, especially in the position in which the Tax Administration is currently in place, that there is a monitoring mechanism in the service to see if the information provided is also the right information. At a time when there are doubts about this, measures must also be taken, because I think it is wrong that the Tax Administration has had additional work on this. The image that exists about this is also not the right image. I therefore hope that we will be able to learn lessons from this in the future on similar subjects. Mr President, I shall conclude. I appreciate the Minister's presence today, but I look forward to working with the two new Secretary of State. We have been able to read that they can be our guests very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-5.u12	Thank you, Mrs Lodders. Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-5.u13	Of course, Mrs Lodders is right to draw attention to this, because people are just suffering from the fact that things go wrong with the government. Because they don't care who that is. In the debate on the future of the Tax Administration, we also talked very much about the role of clients. Does the Minister agree with D66 that we look too often at the performer in this kind of discussion and that the Chamber should bring the client in much more often? I have the impression that the Minister is now answering questions about mistakes that are being made elsewhere. That is totally irrelevant to the people at home, but as far as I am concerned it should be for this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-5.u14	I also said in the debate that I very much agree with those who say that much of the misery in the Netherlands is caused by the failure of the implementation and that often there is a policy component to this, and we have a strong political point. I say 'we as politicians', because it really goes far beyond the ministers responsible for policy. That's one. Two. I have only just studied it today and I know only part of the matter, but I also get the impression that the RDW probably just asked a question in time. It's also my perception that the DMV has reappelled over and over again. I say it with some caution, but I think one of the field parties realized that it was actually too late. It is then up to us to separate the image from what seems to have happened and then to treat it in the right boxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-5.u15	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time. I'll suspend for a few moments and then we'll vote.
