ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and the Minister for Medical Care. Of course, I would also like to welcome Members of Parliament and the people in the public gallery. We shall begin the debate with Mr Wilders as the first speaker on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u2	Madam President. Last Friday I received a handwritten letter from an elderly lady from Schiedam. "It's urgent," she had written on the envelope. The letter said she was a cancer patient and had surgery two years ago. At the beginning of March of this year, she should regain control. But that check didn't go through. "I was pushed aside by corona," she wrote to me. When she finally could not go to the hospital until months later, it turned out that she had metastases again. The day before yesterday, Monday morning, I visited her at home in her leaning home and a flower and some chocolates for her to put a heart under her belt. But that doesn't relieve the pain, of course. In the meantime, she's getting chemo again. Let's hope that lady makes it. If her control hadn't been postponed for months, she might have been spared this misery. That's harsh, very harsh, and also unacceptable. The Netherlands is full of people who received no or too late care from Corona earlier this year, people with heart disease, with cancer, with other diseases, people suffering from pain and whose treatment was postponed. That is what is threatening to happen again. Here, in The Hague and surrounding areas for example, as much as 40% of the regular care is scaled down. This is going to be the case throughout the country, even in the most favourable scenario. Dutch care is so fragile that it falls down in the first major crisis. That's not all the heroes in the care that work there, that's because in the Netherlands we had the care managed by accountants. We're short of everything. We have a shortage of care personnel, of tests, of intensive care beds, of virus inhibitors, of people who can do the source and contact research. In the meantime, we've also cut down on hospitals once more. What has the cabinet done over the past year and a half not to have to scale down regular care again? Are there any more people trained? Has a higher salary been awarded? Are part-time workers going to work longer? Were there any other managers in the care sent to the workplace? Are former carers coming back? Is the proposal of the National Network of Acute Care to allow 20,000 people with medical training from, for example, the Armed Forces, Defense and Fire Department to temporarily work in hospitals? The answer is no, that didn't happen. But do you know what did happen in the last few months? In Brussels, the Prime Minister signed a large cheque of 100 billion Dutch euros for southern Europe. 'Cause he's not too much for overseas. But screw our own people who need care. That is an unprecedented disgrace. I do not accept that and I would like to hear from the cabinet today how it is that regular care needs to be scaled down. Mr. Chairman. Last Sunday, Mr Gribes, head of intensive care at the VU Medical Center, said that most of the corona patients in the intensive care departments of the four largest cities of Amsterdam, Rotterdam, The Hague and Utrecht, but also in cities like Gouda and Dordrecht, are non-Western immigrants, people who, he said, are not powerful in the Dutch language. Why was that covered in carpet? What's the cause of that? Is it because they don't know the rules or they don't read them or they don't care? Or is it because there hasn't been any enforcement? I believe that the people who are now being called because an operation is being postponed are entitled to the facts and to an answer from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u3	I have Mr Azarkan here on my list, Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Jetten and Mr Klaver. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u4	It took a long time, but he was actually there this weekend, and he is now being repeated: Mr Wilders' own-people, self-indebted, fat-thumptweet. My question to Mr Wilders is: do all Dutch citizens have the same rights? Do Fatima and Muhammad have as much right as Henk and Ingrid?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u5	All I've done is name the facts. Mr President, you just mentioned a list of about ten Members of Parliament or no matter how many there are. They're all back. It reminds me a bit of the General Political Reviews. Right away they're back on their back legs. It'll be my worst. It will really be a big deal to me, because the facts need to be pointed out. Mr Gribes is head of the intensive care of the Amsterdam University Medical Centre. He's also a professor of intensive care medicine. He said that he himself was afraid to name it, because there would be a taboo on his words, or a taboo on it. With taboos, I say to Mr Azarkan, we will not get anywhere. We have to name the cases, and so we have to name them, because if you don't name them, you'll never come to a solution. According to this professor, the intensive care units, at least those in the big cities, have an overrepresentation of "what am I saying"? They're full of non-Western immigrants.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u6	What Mr Wilders is doing, and he has been doing for 20 years, is not naming. Under "name" he shaves people under one comb. He actually says in that tweet: Fatima and Muhammad didn't do their best and don't deserve to sit there; that's where Henk and Ingrid belong. That's how he plays people against each other. What does he say to those Fatimas and Muhammads who work in care every day, who also say in videos that they would take care of Mr Wilders if he came? What is your message to all these Fatimas and Muhammads who make sure we get out of this crisis every day?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u7	Well, it's great that you guys work there. Just try your best. That's great. It's great to have them there. I didn't say anything about that either. You shouldn't be so cramped and jump into a cramp about things I haven't said at all. Read my tweet. I didn't mention that they deserve or don't care, that they shouldn't be in intensive care, that other people go first, or that these Fatimas shouldn't work in care. It's all bullshit. I didn't say any of that. Come on, relax! I'll name the facts. I name the facts that the professor from Amsterdam himself appoints. That is something we must dare to discuss. Then we can't look the other way if we do. What if we found out that in intensive care there was an over-representation of women or an over-representation of children, wouldn't that be discussed here? Then we would just call the facts straight and say: how can we do that and what can we do about it? But when Geert Wilders says what a professor says, he's suddenly a racist or he speaks racist. Total bullshit! I name the facts that the professor also mentions, and I say, why didn't we know? Why does a professor from Amsterdam have to come up with that, head of the ic, who is already feeling wet and says "I don't know if I should, because it's actually a taboo"? That can't be taboo. Facts can never be taboo in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u8	Finally, last question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u9	This isn't about the facts. This is about the suggestion that is being made with Mr Wilders' own-people, self-indebted, fat-bulttweet. With that he says and actually suggests: Fatima and Mohammed are on the ic and that is their own fault, because they haven't listened; it's reproachable and they have to get rid of the ic, because Henk and Ingrid can't get surgery otherwise. I'm the first to recognize the facts. But witnessing the fact that a lot of people in care, Fatimas and Muhammads, felt addressed, people we call care heroes... This is dangerous rhetoric and we have seen in history what it has achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u10	Again, I didn't say any of that. I wrote a three-line tweet. I would need 300 rules to say what Mr Azarkan is blaming me now. I didn't say any of that. I have referred to facts which, once again, have been brought forward by a professor. And indeed, I said that might be reproachable, yes. I also have plenty of examples, I will call them that. Why is that plausible? You have to be able to name that, don't you? Indeed, it is true that everyone on the ic deserves the care. Again, everyone on the Ic deserves care, but who gets care on the Ic is not up to me, but the doctors. Everyone who lies there deserves the care, but of course that is at the expense of the care of others. People in intensive care, and anyway corona patients, also in the nursing departments, need a lot more care from the staff than other people in hospitals. Of course, this leads to the displacement of care, which of course means that other people are less likely to get their care agreement. That's what we need to be able to talk about here, isn't it? Surely there can be no taboo on that, just because they are non-Western immigrants? You should be the first, Mr. Azarkan, to stand here to deal with that subject yourself. 'Cause this isn't good for those people either. But you won't. You don't do that because you're cramping!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u11	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u12	No, Mr. Azarkan. No. I'm going to miss...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u13	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u14	I'm going to see Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u15	...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u16	No, you're not being asked. Mr Wilders makes a comment. But I want to see Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u17	...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u18	No, I'm going to see Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u19	The facts can always be named. That is not something Mr Wilders has to worry about. That's not what this is about. The facts may be appointed. The tweet that Mr Wilders posted did indeed have a very different text. It said that Henk and Ingrid's operations would be postponed...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u20	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u21	... because Mohammed and Fatima didn't respect the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u22	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u23	That was Mr Wilders' tweet. So this is not about facts that should not be appointed. Of course they can be appointed. That's not what this is about. But what Mr Wilders is doing here is that he completely ignores the fact... I would also like to ask him: does he know where people get infected? Because, of course, that's often at work, that's at home, that's in the hospitality business. Let them be the people who are our caregivers in the nursing homes or who drive our buses or who perhaps clean Mr Wilders' desk or I don't know! But that's what they're getting infected with. Then they get sick and lie in intensive care fighting for their lives, and then they get such a tweet from Geert Wilders. What is Mr Wilders thinking, I would like to ask him. Look, we've seen examples of him turning people against each other before, but does that have to do with the backs of corona patients?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u24	This is really another extremely weak interruption by the SP's lady. But let me give her an answer. Look, it's not just about the people who work everywhere. It is very good that non-Western immigrants also work there. It is a question of saying that there are examples of how they are actually violating those rules. Otherwise, they won't be in intensive care. That's really not because they all live in bad homes or I know what kind of work to do. Let me give you some examples; I brought them with me. Beginning of October 2020. A Tilburg neighborhood, Reeshof. A Moroccan wedding party with 180 people is held against all rules. The decision was not a fine. Then an example from May. An outbreak of the corona virus in The Hague countries in a mosque because, according to the government, the corona measures have been ignored. On Sunday evening 15 March 2020, during the first wave of Corona, the Hague police put an end to a 500-man wedding. That while March 13th it had been decided that this could only be done with 100 men. Augustus. The GGD Rotterdam-Rijnmond sees that the Sacrifice has led to new corona infections because they have not complied with the rules. In August 2020, Moroccans in Gouda say: "Yes, which goes 1.5 meters against Moroccan culture. Allah," I quote, "is more important than anyone else. If He wants me to get sick, I'll get sick." A general practitioner in the Transvaal neighbourhood and the Schilderswijk in The Hague, Mr Özlem Demir, says that he is in the neighborhood at once bursting with corona patients because people have been to weddings.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u25	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u26	Mr President, I can continue for another hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u27	No, don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u28	Well, don't? I'm just answering the question. I think I can just answer the question. These are all examples of culpable behavior of people who have not complied with the rules. That is something we must have the courage to discuss honestly here. Because if we don't discuss it with each other, we won't solve it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u29	It shouldn't get weirder! Mr. Wilders spent weeks here in the Chamber arguing... I think he was talking about the one-and-a-half-metre terror. I think that word was invented by Mr Wilders. He had his own way with these rules, and it was all bullshit. And then he's gonna stand here and take others with a different background because they don't follow the rules? That's bullshit! First, Mr Wilders says: I cannot name the facts. I'm saying you're free to name the facts. Then he comes up with examples he has found, for he has even prepared it completely from people who do not follow the rules. Everyone here thinks that's wrong. I'd say take it! But we all know these examples. Surely that cannot justify your tweet in any way, Mr. Wilders, in which you say Henk and Ingrid's operations will be postponed because Fatima and Muhammad would not follow the rules? Mr. Wilders, you're the problem. You yourself have constantly argued that these rules were all bullshit and the one-and-a-half-metre terror should be abolished from you, just as I know many other proposals you have made here. This way you turn people against each other and you turn corona patients against each other. That's really the last thing we need right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u30	Moral knights like Mrs Marijnissen no wonder that her party is on ten seats just destroy our country completely. They're afraid to name things. They won't solve anything. And I tell you, I stand up for the common Dutchman. Then let the PVV do it if the SP fails. I stand up for the ordinary Dutchman, who doesn't get anything for free, who simply pays his premium neatly, for whom care is indeed delayed immediately because the ic's are full of non-Western immigrants. Fortunately, there is one more party, let it not be the SP who stands up for it and who simply says: we have to name it. I'm not saying the non-Western immigrants don't deserve to worry. I'm not saying it's not great that they work in hospital care, too. I didn't say any of that. None of that's in my tweet either. I'll just say that it's a fact. I repeat what the professor says that non-Western immigrants are overrepresented on the ic's. Then you can close your eyes and I know what matters, but those are the facts, Mrs Marijnissen. We know that in a nursing unit every ic patient with corona, even in medium care, costs one and a half times as much staff and costs twice as many staff in the ic, in high care. That is at the expense of the people who come for regular care, the people with knee surgery, with cancer surgery, with diabetes or whatever. Those people need help, too. So it is very honest, open and legitimate that we are discussing here that if a professor says that in the big cities at least the ic's are full of people of non-Western origin, it will have consequences for people who are helped too late and whose treatment is postponed to regular care. Wouldn't it be awesome if we weren't allowed to name the truth?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u31	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u32	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. The truth may always be appointed. It's fine that the professor says that when he signals that. And if he would signal that the majority of patients on the ic are middle-aged white men with a bit thicker abdomen, he can say the same. That's not the problem at all, Mr. Wilders, but how dare you suggest that you stand up for the so-called common man when you do nothing but play those people against each other. It's just those people who work in the regular jobs whether they're white or any other color; that doesn't matter who's at most at risk, Mr. Wilders. You know damn well. It's those people who aren't in the luxury of working at home and doing Zoom meetings. It's those people who keep our trains running, who fill our shelves and take care of our elders. Those are ordinary people, and you should, indeed, stand up for them, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u33	I do. Mrs Marijnissen of the SP doesn't understand a thing. She doesn't get it at all. I'm not turning anyone against each other. I mention the fact and I think it's great that these Moroccan people work in all the sectors you mention. I love it. Let them do that. For me, they deserve a big price for that, but I can say that they are non-Western immigrants who are currently in the vast majority in the big cities according to a professor, head of the ic in an Amsterdam hospital, in hospitals? That has huge consequences for those people themselves. So I'm gonna stand up for them more than you are, and you're basically gonna stand up for them. You're actually abandoning them by kicking it under the carpet and not talking about it anymore. I'm talking about it. If you don't name cases, Mrs Marijnissen..........................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u34	In spring they were carnival quaders from Brabant or people who came back from winter sports that were actually the main source of corona infections in the Netherlands. In recent months we have seen a lot of things: young people who had been on holiday and a church in Staphorst that led to a peak in corona infections. It is true that it is the weaker neighbourhoods in the major cities where most of the corona contamination occurs, but Mrs Marijnissen is right to say that they are also the people with the least space at home, the people with the least opportunities to work at home, because they are more often on the conveyor belt or work as a cleaner, and that is precisely where these infections are coming from. I have never heard Mr Wilders say in recent months that Brabant's carnival quadrants are delaying operations or being delayed by winter sportsmen. So why now the need to name it if it's residents of those big cities?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u35	'Cause they don't give a shit about the rules. And at first we didn't know what was going on. When this first played with carnival, people had no idea; they didn't even know there was corona. It's hard to blame people for celebrating carnival when they don't know there's corona. So why didn't I ask? Because no one knew. In the meantime, we're six months away. But I will give you another example, an example which shows the difference between those carnival fours and the people often, not all of them, but often of non-Western origin. Look at the Poelenburg district. Every city in the Netherlands unfortunately has almost a district called "Poelenburg." There was a broadcast of Newsuur on April 19th this year. Maybe you can remember that. In that news broadcast a number of Turkish people spoke. Those people were asked, why don't you stick to the rules, why don't you? That whole neighborhood in Poelenburg, the people there, didn't care about the rules. And what were the answers we got? The answers they gave: yes, we do not. You might remember that. At some point the number of infections also increased in Turkey. And they're all watching TV in Turkey via a dish. At one point Erdogan said on television: it is a big problem, we have to take the matter seriously now. And in one go, that whole Poelenburg neighborhood went on. And what did Mr Sekarsan say about the federation of workers' associations from Turkey? He said: yes, since the measures have been tightened up in Turkey, this is visible here too. I have a quote here: "If Erdogan says it, it's true. When Rutte says it, it's just a question of whether it's true." "It's a little weird, but that means, of course," someone says, "that integrity is far from here. It's a little Ankara. It's not the Netherlands here." That's a quote from a Turk in Poelenburg, who didn't listen to the Dutch rules, but only listened when Erdogan said it. And that's the problem: they don't care about our society, but they don't do anything until their boss Erdogan in Turkey says something's serious. And that leads to misery. It leads to misery if you don't follow, don't listen, maybe you can't even read what the Dutch government says, because you're only watching Turkey at home on television. And you have to be able to name that here, if that leads to misery? What the hell?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u36	Of course, it is always very easy to take out one incident or one example and with that a whole group of Dutch...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u37	I mentioned ten of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u38	... to shave on the same scale. And ten doesn't make everyone in the Netherlands with a migration background. But Mr Wilders has just said, in response to a previous interruption, that we cannot fight corona with taboos. Let's just say that with taboos we can't fight corona. So it turns out that there are groups in the Netherlands that we do not have enough information from the cabinet about the dangers of the coronavirus and about the corona rules that we have agreed with each other. If taboos should not matter, will Mr Wilders join me today in calling on the cabinet to provide information in Polish, in English, in Turkish, in Arabic and I know many of the languages we need, to reach everyone who lives and works in the Netherlands, so that everyone knows what the dangers of corona are and what rules we have agreed with each other to get that virus under?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u39	No, because I think the key point is that people just don't care about the rules. This is also clear: they only do it when Erdogan says it, and they don't do it because Rutte or others say it. And eventually they'll know, or they'll hear through their kids, what it's like here and what the rules are. They also know how to find the way to the UWV for a benefit flawlessly. They also know how to find the way to the Tax Office for a care allowance and a rent allowance flawlessly. That does not need to be explained in another language. If they want a benefit, if they want a supplement, we don't have to do it in Arabic or Turkish; then they have it before you and I. So let's not pretend people don't understand the rules. People want to know that I have made facts about this, which simply do not comply with the rules. And I say again that that does not apply to everyone. Fortunately, there are also a lot of people from Morocco and Turkey here who do follow the rules. But the fact remains that most of the ic's in the big cities, as well as in cities like Gouda and Dordrecht, are filled with people. You'll have to name it. You shouldn't be insane and pathetic about that, because it'll only get worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u40	Finally, Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u41	I'm not insane or pathetic about that either. I would just like to say to Mr Wilders that by now several Iceheads have indicated that it is not going on in their intensive care. So it's not like this is happening all over the country. Mr Wilders says that we cannot fight corona with taboos. Then I'll ask the next, very simple question. He gave the example himself that people follow the rules when they hear it in Turkish. So why should we not simply make this public information about the dangers of corona and the importance of complying with these corona rules available in all languages in the Netherlands, so that we allow everyone to comply with it? Then we can talk to and punish people who deliberately violate the rules, whether they have a migration background or not, whether they are old or young or whatever they do. But then we also allow everyone to live up to them. If Mr Wilders does not want that, he proves that he is not at all concerned with this taboo-free discussion, but that his racist tweet this weekend only had one goal, and that was again, as is often the case: all Muslims in the Netherlands are on the same page.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u42	You can really call me what you want, I'm used to that now, but what the hell is racist about naming the truth? You too are in a cramp again, because you just can't stand the facts. In fact, you have no answer to what I have said, namely that you are naming the facts. I have given you examples. You don't have an answer and then you start screaming. Then you're just gonna scream. That's not strong. That's weak. But I'll give you an answer to your question. Why do we not think it should be in Arabic, Turkish and Polish? The answer is very simple: because we live here in the Netherlands. And in the Netherlands we speak Dutch. In the Netherlands we write Dutch. If you don't learn that, because the left has been in charge and hasn't demanded that you integrate into this country, are we going to write in Arabic now? Are you out of your mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u43	People who don't follow the rules say that everything the cabinet says is wrong and wrong. My office overlooks the Square. Every day I see masses of people coming together to protest against the cabinet. Virus madmen who say it's wrong, that they don't believe it and that it's one big conspiracy, that Mark Rutte introduced this with Bill Gates. I don't hear about that. In your tweet you are talking about the groups in the big cities you always talk about. On all the interruptions by my fellow Members, you say: but that is not what I mean by that at all. What did you mean by that, Mr. Wilders? Why did you name this? What are you trying to do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u44	I've given that answer 50 times. If that really is the level of the interruptions... Probably you want to be able to make your own movie to be able to tweet right away. But it's of a lousy level. I've given the answer three times. Why did I say that? Why did I appoint that group and not another one? Why? Because for the 24th time, Madam President of the VUmc Gribes, professor, has also said that in the big cities... He didn't make this up. He sees this on his own ic. He called Rotterdam. He called Utrecht. He called The Hague, and even Dordrecht and Gouda, I understand. They all told him: "We recognize that same image. We do not have the exact figures, but we recognize the image that the ic's are mainly full of non-Western immigrants." That's what he said. He didn't say they were full of people on the Square, as you just mentioned, those 5G people and I don't know what-all. He didn't say that. He said it about that group. He named that. Nobody fell for that, but it was only when I was going to say something about it that it was wrong at once, it was racism and it was said: why does he do that? Oh, come on! I'll name the facts. Don't be so scared. Name the facts and deal with them!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u45	As far as we know, those are the facts. It's very good to name facts. Then we can see what we're gonna do about it. But all my colleagues have asked what you mean by it, what we should do about it and what it means. That's gonna be zero answer. That makes it just another dog whistle from Mr Wilders. He suggests that white Dutch people are pushed away from hospitals by people with a migration background taking those places. That's what he does with the tweet. That's why I'm here. That is why my colleagues were here to discuss this. This leads to discord in society, and that is not necessary. That is why you are prepared to do so. Because all these people work in sectors such as cleaning or public transport, or in hospitals. They work in the front line, which is why they are at greater risk. Indeed, some of them do not speak the language. That's not good, but it's the facts we're dealing with right now. What are you prepared to do to ensure that the infections go down?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u46	What am I prepared to do? What the hell is that supposed to mean? I mention a fact and I ask the Cabinet: how on earth is it possible that you have maneuvered it under the carpet and that we have no discussion about it? What you could do, for example, is that you're going to maintain it. I have just mentioned the example of Tilburg. A few weeks ago, 2 or 3 October: a big wedding, against all the rules in 180 Moroccans celebrating a wedding. There's a boa coming up, and what happens? Let's just say, some kind of joker's cock. There's no fine. Those people go home and think: well, in the Netherlands you just get away with it. And they might infect others again. That's what happened in mosques. That's what happened at weddings. That's what Turkish doctors from Transvaal and Schilderswijk say. That's what a professor says in Amsterdam. So why don't you cut the crazy shit? I just want to name that and I think we should maintain that, that we should say: we live here in the Netherlands and you stick to the rules. I also think a lot of these rules are nonsense, but I will stick to them, because they are rules that apply here, which are adopted by majority here. And if you don't stick to it, it needs to be maintained. Why don't you start with that? Don't let them get away with breaking the rules. Don't let them get away with a 180-man wedding, which you can't. Don't let them get away with saying in Poelenburg: we won't do it until Erdogan says it on television. Don't let them get away with that. Check them immediately and maintain them! That would be a good start.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u47	Finally, Mr Klaver,
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u48	I am interrupting because you are talking about this group, people with a migration background, that we need to maintain it and not about the group that is here on the Square to demonstrate. Anyone who fails to comply with the rules must be dealt with. You now choose to tackle a group and you do not go into what we can do for these people and all those other people in the Netherlands so that there are fewer infections. That is the great task we face. But what you'd rather do is blow on a dog whistle to excite your constituents to be especially in front of those other people in society instead of what we need right now: together the shoulders to beat this virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u49	No, that's total bullshit, too. I'm talking about everyone. I want everyone who breaks the rules to be called upon. If you were to follow me on Twitter.............................................................................................................................................................. So that's what I'm saying. I'm not just talking about a group, I'm talking about everyone. But now it turns out that's quite a bit of a bit of a.... that in most of the ic's in the big cities in the Netherlands non-Western immigrants fill most of the beds. I wouldn't be worth a slap in the face if I didn't mention it here, would I? I swear if it had been other groups, you would have been there. Only now you're afraid because it's a sensitive subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u50	It's a win in itself. I hear Mr Wilders shouting every day: don't listen to Rutte. I notice today that he says: "Listen to Rutte." I notice he's angry if someone doesn't. So I think that's a win. Look, that tweet was, of course, a little weird. I have the impression that Mr Wilders is aware of this as well, because he has been here for about twenty minutes now mainly shouting: no, no, I am merely naming things. And on the ten most normal interpretations that a normal person reads this tweet, his reaction is: well, I didn't say that at all, that's not what I mean. Just now he said: I'm always talking about everyone, I really don't talk about people with a migration background more often than other people. He said to Mr Klaver: you want to make a movie. With Mrs. Marijnissen, he started talking about polls and pretended to have lost her name. He said, "The lady from the SP." Well, maybe you'll have an asshole personal comment for me, too. Then I'd say make it. Or else I won't. Then we have had that whole circus again and we can continue with the real debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u51	I didn't make a stupid comment about anyone at all. But the fact remains that it is significant that Mr Dijkhoff does not mention it and the VVD does not know about it, just like the SP, GroenLinks and all the other parties that are standing here, that the majority of the people on the ic's in the big cities of non-Western origin. That's not just a dick, that's a serious thing. 'Cause what does that mean? That means extra beds but also extra staff. Mr Dijkhoff also knows what the problem at the moment is in the crisis, namely that we have a huge shortage of staff. That means that if those people who do not follow the rules are increasingly lying on the ice in the Netherlands, other help cannot be given, that the lady I visited on Monday in Schiedam with some bonbons and a flower, perhaps in a moment she will not be able to go to the hospital again. That's what we have to talk about, isn't it? This is very unfair to all those people who get care: that we take Mr Wilders off a bit like a racist or a madman, while the professor says that the ic's are full of those people? If we don't name that, it's gonna go all wrong again. So let's name it, let's see what we can do about it, and let's maintain it if it goes wrong. Everyone in the Netherlands who needs care has been served with that, Mr. Dijkhoff. With your faint interruption, no one is served, certainly not your own party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u52	There's something I don't quite understand. I would like to ask Mr Wilders for clarification. He says: the rules are not good and I criticize them, but you have to stick to them, because if you don't stick to them, then the ic will come to fruition. Then it's good rules, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u53	People don't follow the rules. That's my point. It is said that I have just given 100 examples, from weddings in Tilburg to celebrations in The Hague, from mosques in Gouda to the Turks in Poelenburg, that one does not want to follow the rules, that one does not want to follow them, that Allah is more important than the one-and-a-half meter rule. I gave you the quotes. So the rules are being ignored. This is not about whether the rules are right or not; this is about the fact that a certain group in the Netherlands refuses to implement those rules, because they do not care. I'm saying, you can't do that! I don't like the one-and-a-half-meter measure outside either, because nobody gets infected outside. I have been saying to the Chamber for six months that I think this is a total rule, but I will stick to it, because a majority in the Chamber decides what the rules are. If I disagree, I'm going here as a democrat to fight to get a majority to change the rules. But as long as the rules apply, so do I, whether they're good or bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u54	But the question is whether they're good or bad. You say they have to stick to it. I couldn't agree more. Whatever excuse, rule or excuse you come up with, it's no good. You have to stick to it. Mr Wilders says: I think these rules are bullshit and there are a lot of rules that I totally disagree with because they have no effect, but you have to stick to them. But then his second sentence is: if you don't stick to it, the ic will be full. Doesn't that mean those rules are good? Because if you stick to it, you won't get on the ic and the ic's won't fill up. If you stick to it, you stay out of it. Well, then, those rules are good, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u55	No, that's not true either. I didn't say all the rules weren't right. I have given an example: the one and a half meter rule outside. The one-and-a-half meter rule inside is a whole different story. You have never heard me criticize that either. The criticism I have is that the 1.5 metres inside is probably not even enough, especially if you make the mistake that the cabinet makes by denying the possible role of aerogenic distribution, distribution via aerosols, via small drops with which the virus spreads. So you also have to think about ventilation in rooms. But I didn't fight all the rules. I say people have to follow the rules. If you don't care about the rules inside and at weddings, at parties and in mosques on each other's necks, singing, screaming and doing other things, it's no wonder you get into trouble. As far as I'm concerned, that rule inside is not perfect, because ventilation is part of it, but it is a rule that you should not break. Again, you don't have to break any rules, but violation of this rule actually means that you can end up on the ic or that you can infect other people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u56	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u57	Finally, Madam President. The profit is that Mr Wilders complies with the rules and says that it is important that they are followed. We underline that. The next gain would be to see the Netherlands as one country, in which every sick person is too many, in which everyone has to abide by the rules, in which we expect all people to follow the rules and in which we all hope that everyone holds each other, especially at this time, precisely in this corona crisis. If that were the outcome, it would be a total profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u58	No, it would be a gain if we dare to face reality, the facts. I am standing here for almost 45 minutes in this corona debate and you are all falling over my tweet, while that tweet is just about the facts and about the truth, about something that a professor has said and which actually leads to more people on the ic, which causes other people to be cared for too late. I'm gonna call that fair and square. I'll put a question to it. I'll tell you what's wrong. I'll tell you what needs to be done in enforcement. And you're all on fire. You know what? We will never get anywhere in this file if we declare a taboo for the truth. We can never do that, Mr Segers, because then we won't get anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u59	Mr Wilders talks about the truth and the facts, and the appointment of them. He's furious that people don't follow the rules, because that leads to corona and ic-recordings. The fact is: EenVandaag has investigated that of all political parties the voters at the PVV largely do not follow the rules, only defeated by the voters at Baudet. One out of three, 33% of PVV voters, do not follow the rules. What's to happen to those people, Mr. Wilders?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u60	If people do not follow the rules, they must be enforced. That goes for everyone. Again, this is not a talk for your own parish. Do you think I'm saying there are no rules for the PVV people? Do you think I am saying here that there should only be rules that the PVV people like? What kind of crazy is that? We live in a democracy here, don't we? We all make the rules here. And everyone's got to stick to that, whether you're PVV-dmuck or PvdA-dmuck. And if a PvdA-Dammer or a PVV-Dammer doesn't follow the rules, then it has to be maintained nice or not. And if I agree with those PVV pickers, I'm gonna fight here to get a majority to change those rules. As an example, I mentioned the one and a half meter rule outside. I would love it if I could get a majority here to abolish that rule. But if that rule applies, then everyone, from the Labour Party to the PVV, must comply with it. Otherwise, you're screwed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u61	Very good. Mr Wilders says he's not here in front of his own parish. 4% of the PvdA voters do not stick to it, 33% of the PVV voters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u62	Yes, your constituents are those Moroccans. I can see why that's only 4%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u63	That doesn't make any sense, because you just said that these Moroccans don't stick to it. My constituents will abide by it unless you reveal something about the ethnicity of your constituents. It's possible. I want to stick to the facts. One in three PVV voters does not follow the rules and, in your words, causes this lady's cancer operation to be postponed. So I ask you to be hard on the cabinet but also to be hard on the people you represent here. This is the chance. Speak to them. Call for enforcement and do something about it yourself!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u64	No, again, I say what the professor of VUmc in Amsterdam says. He did not say: there are PvdA voters or there are PVV voters. Again, you can make another game out of it. You can make it a political game, Mr Asscher, by saying: your voter and EenToday... The facts are that the professor has said that most of the intensive care in the big cities and also in medium-sized cities such as Gouda and Dordrecht are non-western immigrants. Those are the facts. Those are the facts! You can't run away from that. You have to make a policy for that. Mr. Chairman. I think it is a great deal that Mr Asscher is giving me the lesson. That's what he did in a tweet. That is the man of the Labour Party who, when he was Deputy Prime Minister under Rutte II, totally destroyed the care. Mr. Asscher, as the Labour Party, you have completely demolished the care, the beds, the hospitals and the care staff. You made sure that during Rutte II, when you were Deputy Prime Minister, masses of non-Western immigrants entered the Netherlands. You made sure of that, Mr. Asscher. And you also made sure that all those people didn't have to integrate. You have ensured that those people if they do not learn the language will not be sanctioned, that those people if they do not integrate, do not have to leave the country. You have destroyed the care, you have let the people in, and you have made sure that those people do not follow the rules. That's PvdA policy. That's why we're in so much trouble right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u65	Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u66	I may have missed it, but I just invite Mr Wilders to say something to that one-third of his constituents who do not follow the rules. I invite him to call for stricter enforcement, to call for compliance with those rules. Mr Wilders prefers to talk about the Labour Party. That's his right. That's fine. But I ask him, though, that we are in a huge crisis, with a huge impact on health and on the economy, to make his own contribution now and to appeal to his own constituents. Because they don't follow those rules. I think that is because of Mr Wilders himself, but of course I do not know exactly. But I'm gonna ask him again. I already know his opinion on the Labour Party very well! But call on your own voters, because they cause the problem you are describing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u67	I'm not making any calls to any voters. In general, I say that everyone in the Netherlands must comply with the rules. I've said that 25 times. But your party has made sure people don't follow the rules. Mr Asscher, speak to all those people you have invited to come into the Netherlands, who you say do not need to integrate, that the Labour Party thinks that they do not need to learn the language, that it is a good thing that they all come to the Netherlands and benefit from a benefit. You made sure of that. You have taken care of this with your policy, by not being strict on people who do not integrate, because that has never been the Labour Party. You've made them think, "Well, as long as Erdogan doesn't say it... Rutte, Asscher, what difference does it make?" That attitude comes from the Labour Party. So if I were you, I'd sing a few tones down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u68	Mr Wilders always talks about the facts and always refers to a professor, someone from the umc who would have said so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u69	Who said that, not "would have."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u70	It was Mr Wilders who said: Henk and Ingrid are not getting surgery because Fatima and Muhammad are disregarding the rules. The other one never said that; that was Mr Wilders. The facts are also that Mr Asscher's inquiry is correct. And it would be shocking if Mr Asscher would then say: PvdA voters do not get surgery because PVV voters do not respect the rules. He did not, and Mr Wilders did. That's at this time of exciting corona numbers setting up groups against each other. That's disgusting. That's bad for the endorsement of sticking to the rules. He should not hide behind someone who did not say this, because it was Mr Wilders himself who tweeted it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u71	Yes, Madam President, because the rules are not being followed. Isn't it really too crazy for words that the whole Chamber is against me now? That was all the opposition, then it was Mr Jetten, and just now Mr Dijkhoff came. Now we also have the group chairman of the CDA. The whole room's sticking its head in the sand. How far do you all think we'll get to the Netherlands if we just blot out Mr. Wilders, the messenger of the bad news, and ignore the bad news? And now Mr Heerma, Madam President. I'm so disappointed with the CDA. Again, the professor did not say that PVV voters or CDA voters but that non-Western immigrants lie on the ic's in large cities. This has consequences for care, for people who can get less care because we in the Netherlands are currently just too few care staff in a crisis. If these people have to care about the ICU people, it will cost twice as many people as in the normal departments. So if your family member gets a call right away that he won't be helped or will be helped by a bad illness, that's partly because of this. We have to have the courage to talk about that, don't we? What kind of madness is that in the Chamber, Madam President? Everyone is afraid, everyone is sensitive to the word "Morocco" or "non-Western immigrant." We need to name the facts. That's what we were chosen for. That's why we get paid every month to name the facts. And again, if you don't name the facts, you'll never solve anything and the whole country will go to hell.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u72	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u73	Mr. Chairman. Then there are the measures of the cabinet. The Dutch now pay the price for the failure of Rutte and De Jonge. They've made an incredible mess of it. They're bleeding the population for that now. They completely destroy the catering industry, a sector where half a million people work and even the OMT says that it can remain partially open, namely the restaurants. Why didn't they take that advice? And are you prepared to keep these restaurants open and otherwise come up with substantial additional financial support? Mr. Chairman. The most stupid and least responsible thing, however, is that the cabinet still does not take the spread of the virus by small droplets, as I have just said, the so-called aerosols, which are not sufficiently serious, and therefore also does not take ventilation as an absolute must to counter this aerogenic spread seriously enough. So please, come up with a big, rural plan for ventilation for schools, for catering, for home, for work, for indoor spaces. That's what's going on, and that can prevent a lot of contamination. Mr. Chairman. I end with what I started with: the lady from Schiedam and so many other people in the Netherlands who are sick and who get no or too late care. Hospitals have now even had to close emergency rooms. That's totally unacceptable, isn't it? We're not developing countries, are we? I say to the cabinet, fix it and do it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u74	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u75	Mr. Chairman. The Corona approach of the cabinet has failed. All the goals the cabinet has set itself have not been achieved. Preventing a second wave? We're in the middle of it. Keeping an eye on the virus? We're back in the fog, because there's no source and contact research. Relaxing the regular care? People are getting calls again that the surgery is being postponed. Protecting the vulnerable? More than 300 nursing homes have been infected again. It has failed, and this has serious consequences for the health and jobs of many thousands of Dutch people. Of course, the number of infections is increasing throughout Europe. It's insanely difficult. It is a crisis of unprecedented proportions and it is working terribly hard. You never really do it well as a cabinet. But nowhere in Europe and almost nowhere in the world the number of infections is increasing as rapidly as in the Netherlands. How is that possible? We must answer that question in this debate. How is that possible? How did that happen? The cabinet always points to its own responsibility for questions about what can be done better. It's not like they had to be surprised; they were warned. Since the summer, as the infections rose, experts and the Chamber have warned. Countless times. Each time it was said: own responsibility. Let us look at the facts and the responsibility of the cabinet itself. The testing was not in order and is not in order and was omitted to scale up; fact. Then there's the source and contact research. People were sent home in the summer; fact. The quarantine policy: there was no obligation. There was a quarantine package only yesterday and there is no income support for people who need to be quarantined; fact. Each time there was too late and too light intervention; fact. With the low point that September 17th, the date when we saw that all critical boundaries were crossed, was the reaction of the cabinet to cancel the last round in the pub; fact. The consequences are great. Let me also mention the elephant in the room: it is also about leadership; it is not about policy. It is also about the tone, attitude, authority and decisions of the leaders of this cabinet. In this crisis, we see three types of leadership worldwide. One. Deny and ignore, with President Trump as the disastrous pinnacle. Variants of this are also visible here, but fortunately not applicable to our cabinet. Two. Strong, honest and empathetic leadership. Example: Jacinda Ardern in New Zealand, where they don't have a lockdown now, but where they're doing that dance phase now. Type 3: wavering, nonchalant. What are the characteristics of that type? To shuffle responsibility over and over again. Swabbling policy, for example four views in four days about mouth caps. It seems as if one mainly refers to the behavior of others, without recognizing that this behavior of society is also a mirror of the attitude of the leaders. This cannot continue; this is muddy. If you saw Van Dissel's analyses this afternoon, my great fear is that we are in an endless lockdown with the current package, whether half of it, intelligent or whatever you want to call it, which lasts until after January. But, Mr President, what is to be done? A new start, a new plan, a choice of this cabinet for another strategy. Let go of that strategy of steering the care capacity, because you're late every time. It's been proven twice now. Choose containment. Go to zero contagions. Get the tests and the source and contact research in order. Introduce quick tests so that schools and care can remain responsibly open. Come with additional support for the culture, sport, catering and event companies and show them how they will be able to function again. And sketch, with the new reports of the different planning agencies in hand, how our society gets through this, in a way that is more than just muddling. But, Mr President, I would like to add that it is essential that we all abide by those rules. The discussion I just had with Mr Wilders was not for nothing. I blame the cabinet for lack of leadership. I blame the cabinet late and slightly intervene, which means the damage is greater. But we will all have to contribute to the success of this process, with a new plan, with a new perspective and a better view of the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u76	A flaming speech by Mr Asscher. Am I to understand that his proposal is to move forward now and not to send on the 0.9, but to go ahead with it? Is that what I'm hearing from the PvdA right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u77	As far as I am concerned, the infections need to be reduced as quickly as possible, but then you should be there when you see, for example, the roadmap that has been introduced now, rather than trusting that it is sufficient, but faster and harder to intervene at local level if the infections occur. Otherwise, you're gonna keep chasing the facts. Then my great fear is that even if you manage to reduce the infections now, at the price of great damage for a lot of people, you will immediately soften up again, so that the numbers go up again. So you're stuck at this level, which is almost unbearable because of care and the economy. What I think we should want is not to steer the care capacity anymore, because then you are by definition too late, but to steer the reduction in the number of infections. Learn from other countries! Look how they do it in Germany. Look how they do it in Denmark. Try to learn from that, without having said that again, I would like to have said that it is easy, because it is very difficult. But the Netherlands is doing worse now than the other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u78	Do I understand why you're actually saying, "Let's take the course of the advice given by the Red Team?" Is that what I'm hearing from the PvdA right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u79	Yeah, sure. On 22 July, they warned about an increase in contagion. If the reaction had been tighter then, we could have avoided much disaster after that. They have given an advice on how you can safely open the schools. I also want the schools to stay open. This is very important for the development of children, but you can see the number of infections increasing enormously. That is why I also said: apply these rapid tests, but also come up with clear policies so that schools know where they stand. What should happen to the ventilation? How many infections do you switch to digital teaching, if necessary temporarily? It's always about making sure you're focused, but also hard and quick to bring down the number of infections and also to bring back the perspective for all those people who saw their company come into great danger yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u80	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u81	Thank you, Mr President. It's gonna go bad. Indeed, tackling the coronavirus is far from easy, but the government's approach has failed. We have very often had the discussion here in the Chamber about what exactly is the strategy that the cabinet is pursuing and what is being sent to. The cabinet kept saying: the strategy is to control the virus to the maximum. That control consisted of three elements, but we must note that it has failed. Get a look at the virus, get an insight into the virus and keep it: failed. The basics, the testing and the source and contact research, they just don't work out. Protecting our vulnerable? The virus is going through the nursing homes like a mess right now. That too has failed. And keep the care going? Operations, treatments, checks are cancelled and if we can believe Kuipers, then in the most negative scenario up to 75% of the regular care will be cancelled. That too has failed. Mr. Chairman. What do we see happening? We see that the cabinet chooses the easy way: to shuffle off the debt. It would be that stubborn Dutchman who doesn't want to listen to the rules, who would be responsible for the failure. But, of course, that's bullshit. That's bullshit. Let's look at what the cabinet itself does. We have a Minister of Justice who doesn't care about his own corona measures. We have a health minister who has not yet managed to get the basic testing and the source and contact research practically, logistics in order. We have a Prime Minister who is bothering Dutch people who do not listen to urgent advice, for example on wearing a mouth cap, after having been told for months that such a mouth cap would only be "fake safety'. When the Prime Minister himself gets the question at the press conference whether he is setting up such a thing, he says: yes, I don't really know, because I haven't really thought about it yet. In addition, this Liberal Prime Minister also says: yes, but people do not have to listen to me. How is it possible? We want the Prime Minister to stop doing that. Care is falling through his hooves right now. Sectors are breaking down. Culture, catering and sports get hit after blow. People lose their income and can't pay their rent anymore. Companies are breaking down. And then we have a Prime Minister who says: yes, I have an idea what the solution is, but don't listen to me. That the day must come when I, as a SP'er, say to the VVD, we are politically far apart and the Prime Minister must stop doing so! We want the cabinet today to come up with a new strategy, with a new perspective. We want the cabinet today to say that the aid measures are not being phased out, but are being built up. We also want the cabinet to stop shuffling politics. We also want to hear from the cabinet today how it is going to ensure that the basis is put in place: it can test much, well and quickly and the source and contact research. Because if we now manage to get the virus back under control with this whole package of measures, that is essential. It is essential not to lose control of the virus again, as has happened now. Mr. Chairman. Our caregivers pulled us through during the first corona surge. The whole of the Netherlands was looking at them. We are now at exactly the same point and the whole of the Netherlands is looking at them again. They've barely had a breather. I was in a nursing home last week. The fear is great there. People feel a little better prepared because they know what's coming. But precisely because they know what's coming, the pain is so great, because they know the first nursing homes are going to shut down again. What sadness and loneliness awaits the people. Mr. Chairman. What is it then that the coalition still does not reward these people with a decent appreciation? We are currently seeing beds empty in hospitals, beds that are desperately needed but cannot be opened because there are simply no caregivers to provide the care. The least we can do now, in this crisis, is to make sure that those people get a decent appreciation. We would therefore like to call on the cabinet to do so today, not only because these people deserve it, but also because we really cannot afford to increase staff shortages even further. We need everyone now. I call on the Cabinet to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u82	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u83	Mr. Chairman. We see the number of infections rising every day. The hospital intakes and the numbers on the ic's are also rising and will continue to rise in the coming days. The partial lockdown announced yesterday is necessary. It affects all of us, and it's hard for us. The blows to society and the economy are real. The call from industry on the emergency packages will increase considerably in the coming period. The sacrifices that are demanded and made in society are great. The disappointed, angry and concerned reactions are humanly understandable, because it is not fun. We've all had enough, actually. We're done with the virus, but the virus isn't done with us. But I also have to say that I am concerned about the trend of some of the discussions recently. Too often exceptions are claimed for ourselves and others who would be guilty are pointed out. First it was the students or the church in Staphorst. Later we heard: it is Muhammad and Fatima's fault. But that's bullshit, and it doesn't help. And then you also have the types that claim that the virus doesn't exist statistically or that it's just a cold. There are even those who say that it would be a plot to gag the population. Putting everything into question, constantly pointing the finger at the other and assuming conspiracy theories undermines people's willingness to put their best foot forward, even though we have to talk about it. Ernst Kuipers also warned this morning in the briefing that the atmosphere is getting more grim. Unlike the first wave, people in hospitals are now fighting. That is also worrying. People need to realize that not by giving their opinion, but by adjusting their behavior, the virus is being combated. We all have a great responsibility here. We must all return to the institution we had in March and April. We must respect ourselves, abide by the basic rules and follow advice. We don't do that for ourselves, but we do that for the sake of others. It's about caring for each other. Mr. Chairman. Following the long letter we received last night, I have several questions to ask the cabinet. At the beginning of my speech, I indicated that the call for emergency packages would increase considerably in the coming period. This is soon about hundreds of millions or billions. The Prime Minister mentioned that the packages are going to breathe. I think this will apply to a lot of companies. Those packages are arranged on them. How does the cabinet keep an eye on the sectors that are going to be hit particularly hard? I'm thinking sports clubs, the catering industry and the event business. How will it be checked if it is sufficient? I think we have been talking earlier about time-out arrangements, among others by colleague Aartsen of the VVD. It has been promised that work will be done on this. Businesses are also asking questions about it. In what period will we receive answers to this and in what period will we have the effect? The roadmap was sent yesterday. I believe that Mr Jetten has asked for this very often. When I saw the Irish example, I thought: hey, we should have that in the Netherlands too. The Roadmap provides a lot of clarity and perspective. It facilitates communication. This also applies to the maintenance by mayors of the regional approach in the dance phase that Mr Asscher has just mentioned. Can the Cabinet explain how this roadmap will have an impact on the regional approach? That is a part that has been discussed in various debates. In that dance phase, in which we were in August/September, there was sometimes too little and too late regionally. Is that roadmap going to help? Can the Cabinet outline how that's gonna happen? The test capacity is currently being considerably scaled up. I understand from the letter that large numbers of rapid tests will be available in the short term. That is the route we have on our way to the test society that we discussed during the last debate. I share with Mr Asscher that part of that process must be that the rapid tests and the BCO are also used to really trace regionally in a next dance phase. How does this happen in practice? I'll close with the quarantine. The letter from the cabinet indicates that work is being carried out on the legal enforcement of the quarantine obligation. In the letter it is about 10% to 15%, but I saw on television yesterday that 20% of the people who are infected would not live up to the quarantine. They go to the cafe and work, and they can't. Then we'll never master the virus. Can the cabinet indicate how it will shape the legal approach? This also applies to the preventive quarantine. What about people with a zero-hour contract? The cabinet indicates that a solution is still being sought with the social partners and gives a very long list of issues where it all goes. However, it ends with the hopeful phrase: we are still talking. What's being looked at? How are we gonna make sure that people with a zero-hour contract just go into preemptive quarantine and don't have a boss who says, "You come, or you don't have anything?" Then we're not gonna master the virus either. Previously, the lessons learned referred to the Danish approach to quarantine. Are there lessons to be learned from that? Do they or other European countries have a solution to this problem, which the cabinet has been working on for several months, and I understand that it is complicated, together with the social partners?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u84	I hear Mr Heerma repeating the words of Minister Koolmees, namely that there is 'breathing'. That sounds very sympathetic, but of course it's just obsessed as of 1 October. As a result, wage costs are no longer reimbursed at 90%, but at 80%. We tabled a motion two weeks ago to stop this austerity, because we already saw that this was coming. Now you're asking for a time-out, but will we not just agree that we're gonna cancel the October 1 austerity and we're just gonna pay off the 90% again? I know that the catering industry is asking for a 100% fee, but will we at least show that 90%?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u85	In the third package, moreover, things have also been expanded. There are higher amounts of allocation. Businesses and social partners have always looked at what things are needed, so as not to give an unnecessary amount of money so that you don't have the money to continue helping companies at a later stage. Because we're gonna have to deal with this for a while. At the same time, focus has been focused on where the bottlenecks are greatest, in order to improve targeted matters there. Both movements were made in the October package. The time-out arrangements are about something else. They are about companies that temporarily stand still and are therefore facing bankruptcy. Questions have been asked to Minister Wiebes. That doesn't make any sense. There would be an effect on that. I do believe in that breathing, for the broad lines. I asked questions about that myself. Indeed, all these schemes have been called upon to a smaller extent and we will see that the amounts are going to be astronomical again in the coming weeks. At the same time, I have also asked myself if it is sufficient specifically for the catering industry and the event industry. In what way will the cabinet keep its finger on the wrist, so that if it is not enough, it will happen again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u86	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Soft healers make stinky wounds. So the corona virus is gaining ground. Previous half-baked, weak and, above all, very unclear measures had no effect. The poldering, which has become an art in Dutch politics, turns out to be the monster of indecision in this crisis. Once again, we are in a dangerous situation, both for our health and for the economy. Mr. Chairman. The app. The well-known corona app. Employees and employers are concerned about the quarantine that this app commands and cannot test it if you have no complaints. And there are very legitimate concerns about affordability when workers are at home without complaints. Workers also fear for their jobs. Sometimes interviews even ask: "Do you think we should stick to the measures? 'Cause this is where they're working on it." I'd like a response and a solution from the Minister. Does the Minister intend to extend the application period until the end of the year in view of the continuing uncertainty as to which care professional is and which is not eligible for the healthcare bonus? Does he actively want to communicate to the unions and institutions that even if you are on the no-unless you have forgotten on a list, you are eligible for the health bonus of €1,000 net on the basis of the criteria and the healthcare employer's own consideration? Mr. Chairman. The Ministry of Health has reported far too few hospitalisations of corona patients in recent months, according to journalism research by NU.nl. The number of recordings reported by RIVM does not appear to be half of the actual number, i.e. no less than 1.880 hospitalisations. How is this possible? I ask the Minister what figures the cabinet has based itself on in recent months. How heavy did they weigh in determining the corona policy? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the WOB requests from journalists to the Ministry of VWS. I would like to hear the truth about progress in the Minister's first term. Don't throw sand in our eyes. Journalists should be able to do their job. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u88	Thank you. I call Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u89	Mr. Chairman. We didn't do it. The virus has been given too much space. That is why more is now needed: more measures, stricter, more urgent, harder. And that hurts. The increase in the number of infections has been painful in the care for weeks. The restrictions we already had have already hurt entrepreneurs, and that is only getting worse. And now it also hurts anyone who's gonna have to feel the loss of the people you're not gonna meet right now, and the things you can't do right now. That raises the question: why didn't it work? I can't identify one person or group who's to blame. Eventually, we'll all do it together, and if we don't, we won't be able to do it together. Should the tests have been in order sooner? Sure. But the testing could not have prevented the situation in itself, because it is not a vaccine. Could we have taken tougher measures two weeks ago? Sure, you could have. Should you have done it? I'm saying yes now, but I said no then. So it's not easy for me to predict things afterwards. You don't want to do too much too early, you don't want to intervene too late. I can see now that the cabinet is adjusting earlier than after the three weeks that had been planned for the previous package. That's good. Could the cabinet have done things differently and better? Sure. I heard the Prime Minister say something about this yesterday at the press conference itself. But even if the cabinet had done everything perfectly, that's something no man can do, then even that in itself wasn't enough. If we had still behaved as we have now, the number of infections would also have increased. Is it our folk? Is the stubborn the problem, being confused with authority, hating rules, finding creative ways to do our thing within the rules as much as possible? Is that the problem? Does everything that makes us a nice little people turn against us now? Partly. This is especially true of the idea that we sometimes saw, that you are smarter than the government and that you find a way to do more than is wise according to the rules. When the pub closes, you're smart, you go get a crate of beer and sit home with your friends. Only today's battle is not a battle with the government, but a battle with the virus. And that virus is enjoying that little cleverness even more than you are. The result is that the pub has to close, that evening shop can only sell you fresh, and you can only receive three guests a day at home. So how smart was that? Anyway, this is just part of the story. Because in the spring we could do it. Then we didn't look up the edges. Then we kept to the rules and often stayed far from the edges. And we haven't suddenly become a whole different people in six months. We can still do that. We need to leave that stubbornness out for a while; we'll see about that later. First, we need to show our responsible side and get the virus underneath. So now there's nothing left but to make sure we meet in as few places as possible. We should spend less time together, we don't go to the pub, we don't have dinner. And we also need to meet fewer different people. Measures often say: yes, but most infections happen at home. That's right. But that virus doesn't suddenly appear out of nowhere when you're sitting on the couch at home. Someone took it home. If there are five infections, at work or in the pub, and then 20 infections at home, then it's not four times as much at home. No, then 25 people got corona through the pub or through the office. This does not happen because the boss does something wrong, but because despite her or his efforts it has happened. Or because we scheduled that meeting instead of Zoom, Teams, Hangouts, FaceTime or Pexip. We need to give this virus a massive blow right now. You don't do that with sophisticated measures, but you do it with a sledgehammer. And unfortunately, that sledgehammer also hits many entrepreneurs. Of course there are also support packages, and they go on. In the spring we had to hope that there was support and it was unknown what it would look like. The advantage now is that that support is there and that we know what it looks like. But in the spring many entrepreneurs also had some reserves, and they really are now. People who have kept a nice restaurant open, with the help of the support packages, and who with that support, their own money and their pension money have tried to save people's jobs, or who have borrowed money to survive, are now wondering: perhaps I should have pulled the plug in March? Has this support finally helped me, or is it going to make sure that the plug still has to be removed, with debt and without pension? Does the cabinet want to see what else is needed outside the existing aid schemes? How do we prevent those brave perseverances from leaving behind destitute? Now that the catering industry has to close up again, is this compensation in the fixed charges still sufficient? How do we prevent companies from breaking if a time-out scheme could have saved their lives? How do we encourage banks not to pull the plug too quickly with the credits? Mr. Chairman. We are now taking firm measures to reduce the number of infections, to ensure that heart surgery, cancer treatments and other medical interventions can continue. If we can do that, we'll be earning ourselves room for nice things later, but that's gonna take a while. That can only happen if we choose together not to be stubborn now and look for the edges, because then we discuss each other is the hospital, but by choosing what we are good at: taking the shoulders and taking responsibility. All of us against the virus: unity makes power.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u90	Thank you. I see Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u91	Mr Dijkhoff talked about the support needed for companies and institutions, about the sports clubs that are now threatening to fall, the catering shops for which this is a huge blow, the events, the culture where it simply cannot be with these restrictions. Isn't it time we ordered the cabinet together to come up with a package, for example around the fixed charges? 'Cause I really don't think there's that much time to lose. Mr Dijkhoff politely asks whether that is enough, but I think we both know the answer: it is not enough. Entrepreneurs also indicate this: they have already drawn up their reserves. Shall we make it clear here today as a Chamber that such a package must be put in place?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u92	The two of us are not getting along, but I think that others have already made or will make that call and will make it clear to the cabinet. If I have the impression that it is not clear enough, we can also see if it still needs to be in a motion. But making it clear seems wise to me anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u93	Thank you. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u94	I would like to talk to Mr Dijkhoff, Mr VVD, about taking responsibility. Wouldn't it have been better for your party, even when it comes to the care side in the last ten years of Rutte................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Because of course you've made a huge mess of the whole care. You've fired people, you've closed hospitals, you've even made beds disappear with those hospitals, you've missed a salary increase for the health care workers who work there to this day. We are now seeing that, at the time of the shock of care, I admit that this is a big shock, because we are now in a serious crisis, at least when it comes to hospital care, we are about to collapse, we are running out of deficits, we are about to have to scale down care. In fact, the latter is already happening. Do you not now find in retrospective, even as a VVD, that you should have taken responsibility rather than shivering on care? 'Cause that's what you did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u95	Every year more money has been spent on care than in the previous year. There have been wage increases in recent years in various sectors of care. In some cases, it was between 7.5% and 8% over several years. There are vacancies that we didn't get filled for corona either, so there is more room for more staff, but there is also a shortage of staff. This cabinet has also given billions to refurbishing care for the elderly. We did a pretty good job of that. The quality is high. The costs increase every year. All they've done is try to keep that down. What you could say is that the ic capacity was too low. Well, this spring is at a very fast pace, including with the recruitment of staff, of new people who have returned to work in the care sector, greatly increased. I don't think that if we'd treated the care very differently for the past ten years, it would have been better now. You might have spent more money on it, but it hasn't been said that care would be better able to take care of us now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u96	I'm sure you do, because you've just cut into the care. You say you added something to it, but you took something off first, for example in nursing care. On balance, therefore, you added what you removed later. That's nothing extra. Meanwhile, a lot of people have joined the Netherlands, not only because of immigration, but also because of our demographic growth. In the last ten years many people have joined the Netherlands. The money didn't rise accordingly. What did you do? What happened? People at home know that. The Rugaard van Puttenziekenhuis in Spijkenisse is closed, the Slotervaart hospital in Amsterdam, the MC IJsselmeer in Lelystad, the Bronovo in The Hague and then I have a list of twelve emergency aid posts from Spijkenisse to Woerden, Hengelo, Zwijndrecht, Rotterdam, Tilburg, Stadskanaal, Hoogeveen and continue. They've all been closed in the last ten years. And now we're in trouble, now we're in trouble. We don't have enough people, we don't have enough ic-beds and people don't get more motivated, because you don't give them a salary increase. Why don't you ask yourself if the VVD might be co-responsible for the misery in the hospitals? Again, I don't blame you for the virus, but we're in trouble with the hospitals right now. That's what you've done, and you've got to admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u97	I admit business if I agree. I have just indicated it and will repeat it very briefly: every year more money goes to care than the year before. You try to organize it as well as possible, but you can't just spend more money on care. You're gonna have to earn it, too. And we also have other wishes in this country, such as lower burdens, education, police, security and defence. Then you have to divide things up. Besides, it's never perfect. I'll take full responsibility for that. But the things that succeed are also under that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u98	Finally, Madam President. We live in a country where ambulances are sent away from the emergency room. We heard at the briefing this morning that that happened. Ambulances arriving with sick people are sent away not only at one but sometimes even at several emergency services in one region, because the emergency services cannot handle it because there are no beds. This cannot be done in the Netherlands! We live in a civilized country, don't we? Even in the worst crisis, we must be able to do this. Look at Germany, that's not where it happens. There's plenty of hospital beds there. They've got plenty of E.R. there. They have enough ic-capacity there. There's plenty of staff there. But because the VVD has been cheating every time as an accountant and has gone into economics, we are now in a situation that we cannot explain to the people at home: if they are sick and have to go to a hospital with an ambulance, they are sent away. That's VVD policy!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u99	I want to reach out as soon as possible to any emergency station to receive the ambulance. It's not like you can't go to the emergency room, just sometimes you can't go to the emergency room where the ambulance would normally drive. That's worrying, and that's why the corona virus needs to be controlled. It wasn't a question of squeezing. It was a matter of spending more every year and also of seeing how, in an economic crisis in which everyone is struggling, things can be done in such a way that public finances do not end up in a situation such as in countries such as Italy and Greece, which Mr Wilders often mentions. That's what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u100	I want to thank you for that, Mr. Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u101	Finally, one more question, I think I have one more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u102	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u103	I'm making it up, too. Look, it's not an answer if Mr Dijkhoff says we're sending ambulances with sick people away. He says he doesn't think it's acceptable, but it's the consequence of his policy he's now saying: we have to look at how we're going to spend the money every year. But you have given EUR 100 billion to Europe! There he is, there he is! This summer, Prime Minister Rutte has brought 100 billion Dutch euros to other countries, to France to take care of them, to Italy. How the hell can we live in a VVD country where you rule, where you are the largest government party, and where we send the ambulances and give 100 billion to countries in Europe at the same time? We need that money here for our own people!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u104	The answer to the simplest question: how can we live in a country where any party is the largest? We live in a democracy where people decide their voices. They have heard Mr Wilders' story, not for the first time, and they have heard my answer to it, not even for the first time. They have heard again that Mr Wilders does not think it is an answer and I repeat that the answer will not change if the question remains the same. Then we'll see what the Netherlands thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u105	Mr President, on a point of order. At the beginning of my interruption I asked you a number of times to be able to ask a fourth question. You turned that down on everyone. I note that you will allow Mr Wilders to do so, and I find that unjust.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u106	There were five of your colleagues who were all interrupting at the same point. That is why I said three questions. Mrs Van Brenn has just asked four questions. I did not say 'three questions throughout the debate'. Because there were more colleagues, I said "three questions."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u107	No appointments have been made...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u108	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u109	...about questions. I checked. I asked a very simple question because I thought that was a point that did not only concern me personally, but about which a large number of people questioned me because it caused consternation. I wanted to ask all my questions about that. You have not allowed this and I note that you do so with Mr Wilders. I don't think that's fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u110	No, that was for everyone, not just you. During the first interruptions, everyone had three questions. You wanted to ask more questions than the rest, and I didn't let you. If you wanted to interrupt now, you'd have the same chance. In addition, there were more colleagues, and I have to pay attention to that. In the end, the chairman is talking about the interruptions. So is my fate and your fate. Mr Van der Staaij is standing by on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u111	Madam President. Still a partial lockdown. And that's gonna chop right into it. We all feel that, and that's what we didn't want with each other. In the summer, the cabinet presented an approach based on local, at most regional measures with a toolbox with instruments. Mayors and security regions were supposed to intervene if necessary, but that was not the way it was. Instead of a regional level, another sturdy hammer comes out of the rural toolbox. The cabinet also blames this on the behaviour of citizens, and that is certainly not out of the blue. We heard examples of this in this morning's briefing. But is that the whole story? Is it not fair to acknowledge that a number of conditions were simply not in order? I mention the lack of test capacity, the lack of clarity as to when which decisions should be taken, do not intervene when the signal values were exceeded. How does the Cabinet look back on that? Mr. Chairman. Then to the now. We understand the need for firm measures now, precisely in order to maintain non-corona care for as many people as possible. Many of these measures are clear, but there are also uncertainties. Those are not always the biggest points, but they are points that affect people very often. Take the point of marital consummation. That has become unclear again. What's the deal with that? The Roadmap states that it can be "very serious" at a maximum of 30, but not at a lockdown stage. So it looks like 30 can still be done now, but there is uncertainty about it. My question would be whether there can be clarity every time about these foreseeable points, about which questions arise and which really affect those people. It remains important for the future to return to a tailor-made approach as soon as possible. My question is: how and when will it come into view again? The resilience of our society is once again being called upon. It is important that we look at each other more closely at this stage, as we have shown in this crisis before. People who are lonely, elderly who are afraid of infection and vulnerable people. In recent months we have seen so many beautiful examples of corona help: from groups of citizens, from organisations and churches. The Dutch have shown resilience. I would say: let us now, in difficult times, put this back in the window again, continue to appeal to it, encourage it and support it. Mr. Chairman. A good fight cannot be achieved without calling on citizens to respect rules of conduct and, if necessary, to enforce them. I agree. We are not, however, in favour of adopting behavioral advice such as around mouth caps, with all the legalisation that is required. It is also important that responsible behaviour is rewarded. If entrepreneurs, citizens, institutions have successfully engaged in risk mitigation measures, which are well respected, it is encouraging that they are seen and rewarded. I understand that this is not possible at this stage and at the moment with very general measures, but let it be used, precisely in order to sustain it. Because the honest story is not only that we need firm measures now, but also that we are stuck with all kinds of difficult and annoying restrictions for a long time to come. And then it's got to be perseverable. The virus didn't just go away. As a society, we must learn to deal with this, as we have learned to live with other diseases, diseases and setbacks. We must not only set boundaries, we must certainly do so, we must also offer space. Does the cabinet recognise itself in this and how does it respond to this? Mr. Chairman. There's a lot of pressure on the hospitals. We should be aware of that, but we shouldn't stare at it blindly. The lesson from the first wave was also that care is more than hospital care. Also keep an eye on what is going on in the other areas of care. How do we prevent the provision of services for the elderly, such as day care for people with dementia, from being rigorously scaled down? Does it offer strict advice to work at home enough space to make actual conversations from face to face, for example, in mental health care? Please let us give the necessary space in that. That also affects people's well-being. And about another sector, disability care. Why do people with disabilities not take care of themselves if they want to be tested? Finally. Education is not affected at the moment. We understand that, and we support it. The consequences of closing schools would be far-reaching. But at the same time, we are concerned about the possibility that the virus will continue to spread under the radar. My final question is therefore: what measures does the cabinet take to prevent schools from becoming fireplaces, with all the consequences? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u112	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u113	Mr. Chairman. Little kids, little worries, big kids, big worries, they say sometimes. That became clear to me yesterday. Then Margreet told me about her adult sons and how she had been awake the night before and cried. All three of them work in the catering industry, young guests. She already foresaw what was happening at the press conference. The care you then have for your children, who later have no income, is enormous. It shows what the impact of this crisis is. It's not just medical, it goes way beyond that. It's about caring about your income or your lover's income. I also noticed when I called one of my best friends last night after the press conference. He's single and always on the road. He's never really home, and he's at home at once. He cannot go to work, he cannot travel: there too the impact is great. In my view, these examples show two things. The responsibility we have with each other is incredibly great: for us as individuals to perhaps contact someone a little more often. I also strongly urge myself to have a little more attention. It also calls on us as a government to take a step further and to do something extra for all those entrepreneurs and employees who will soon be without income. That is why I ask the Cabinet to come forward with new support measures. I am also thinking explicitly of the cultural sector. The idea that we can still come together with 30 people and that you could still have something of theatre performances or concerts? I can't. It's not a good time. There's a real need for something to happen there. Mr. Chairman. The support for the measures is strong in society and also in my group. We support them. I'm afraid it's still not enough, but we're gonna have to go this way. What I do find acidic, to put it mildly, is that I feel like we didn't do everything we could to prevent this. That has everything to do with the choices made by the cabinet. I think the strategy has failed, and I hope the cabinet will admit it. It's not in the reproachful atmosphere, but to see what went well and what didn't. The strategy didn't work. The strategy really needs to be different and better. We're not gonna prevent any more outbreaks of this virus or anyone else getting it. But we have to keep it under control. It has to be manageable. It should be possible to test quickly, the source and contact research is needed to keep it in mind. That is what we need to do in the near future, and that is why it is really necessary for testing policy to get much and much better. To be honest, I have no faith and no faith that it will work out in the way it is now invested in the cabinet. I would therefore suggest that a new minister be added. I do not want to say anything in any way about the minister who is now working on it, or about the other members of the cabinet. I think it's a sign of strength when, just when it's super heavy, you bring in extra people. My point is not that mistakes are made. But when that happens, you dare look further and engage new forces. A new strategy is needed. The test policy is crucial. When I read the letter, I'm worried sick. In December, the GGD could run 80,000 tests. That's not enough. That ambition needs to be raised. This is the ultimate scenario of RIVM. It adjusted it upwards by 14%, but that's not enough. We need to go to over 100,000 tests. I myself think we'll have to move towards the 150,000 tests. We have to do everything we can to make that happen. We need to put all the man and woman power we can find on this. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to leadership. Making adjustments in the team is a sign of leadership and not a sign of weakness. This Prime Minister's leadership today has often proved effective over the past few years. It's a man who can always solve problems from day to day. Somehow he knows how to forge impossible coalitions. He still knows how to hold it together. But this isn't what you're asking. Referring to people's own responsibility is not enough. This cabinet needs to take a few extra steps. I have two examples of this. The first example concerns the central management of hospitals. The fact that there is still a question of whether there is room for patients, when you are told that it is not, is not possible. We're in a crisis. That calls for central direction. There will be no questions asked, but orders given. Secondly, people's own responsibility to go into quarantine is there. If someone gets tested positive and still thinks "I'm going to a party," he's in the wrong place. Then, as far as I'm concerned, you may be punished. But that's only one part of the story. There is also a category of people with zero-hour contracts. They have no income and are not paid if they do not go to work. I think the government should take an extra step to make it possible to go into quarantine. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The steps taken at the press conference present us with a huge task in the coming period. They ask a lot of us as individuals and of us as politicians here in the House of Representatives. The strategy and implementation need to be improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u114	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u115	Mr. Chairman. The new corona measures are hitting us all hard. They're meant to restrict people's contact again. It is true that too many people have looked up the limits of the potential in recent weeks. But last night's measures are also announced as a correction to shortcomings in the government's approach, such as the lack of sufficient testing capacity, failing source and contact research, and unclearness and predictability of government intervention. That, too, is a reason why we need to intervene hard now. These measures are not only a reset for the virus, but also a reset for the virus approach. I would have liked the Prime Minister to have also considered this piece of self-reflection in the press conference last night, because it could have helped to support the far-reaching measures that need to be taken now. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, the daycare centres, primary education and secondary education can remain open. This is essential for a whole generation, but also for parents, who keep the space to fill in their work. It's hard for a lot of other people who have to deal with restrictions again. I am thinking in particular of young people who live more than others on social activity, new discoveries and new contacts. The number of people with depressed feelings has risen explosively among 16- to 30-year-olds. The need for hope and perspective is greater there than ever. I see it as our job to offer that perspective. For D66, clarity and predictability begin with policies that everyone understands. That is why I am pleased that the roadmap that D66 often asked for was presented yesterday. Compliments to the cabinet for its elaboration. Because with this we all need to live less in suspense towards the next press conference, with new and sometimes difficult to place measures. You can see that we come to an x-number of infections in the next stage of corona and that therefore new restrictive measures are needed. However, the Roadmap also offers the prospect that if things go in the right direction with the corona contamination, the measures can become less violent again. This week I met Johan de Vos, a catering entrepreneur from Breda. He clearly expressed the need for this perspective, not only psychologically, but also financially. I also hear this from people who find their passion and their work in the arts and culture, from people who organize big events and the many volunteers who are active in our sports associations. They are keen to contribute to the handling of the virus and are prepared to make great sacrifices in the coming weeks, in the interests of society's health. But then these people also want to know what to expect. They want to keep thinking ahead and be able to plan ahead, make plans for their company or organisation. That also requires a certain certainty. Could the Prime Minister indicate whether the current aid packages will be set up in the longer term? Is there any prospect of new support packages if, for example, the culture, sports clubs and the catering industry are hit harder over the next few weeks and months? Perspective goes beyond support packages and roadmaps only. We are also looking for solutions that can restore our lives in all smell and color. 'Cause it could take us a year to get a vaccine that's really gonna help us. Then it's just how long it takes to vaccinate everyone. Until then, we must move towards a society with a functional testing strategy. In the next few weeks, we'll go to 80,000 tests a day. That's good news. Rapid and massive testing makes it possible to contain the virus and brings a safe and sensible freedom closer. I'm gonna ask the Cabinet what that testing strategy looks like. Who gets priority at what stage of the outbreak? What is the purpose of the test street at Schiphol? And when will keyboard shortcuts become not only part of the test streets, but also of our society, for example, to make events possible again? We also have the CoronaMelder app since last week. It's good to see it's been downloaded so much already. Can anyone who uses this app and receives a notification that they may have been at risk be tested quickly, even without any complaints? This provides the perspective for employers and employees that people who have been notified through the CoronaMelder app do not need to be quarantined for unnecessarily long and can get back to work quickly. The Minister is working on a quarantine obligation, but how does he tempt people to comply with quarantine rules? Three quarters of planned interventions and treatments may be postponed or discontinued shortly. Three quarters of regular care. It is clear to hospitals and patients that regular care is under pressure, but when is regular care less important than corona care? How do we prevent invisible triage from happening? Are there alternatives, such as emergency hospitals, to give regular care more breathing space? And how do we keep mental health care as accessible as possible? Finally. Perspective and predictability is what we need to make this approach work. Let the cabinet take advantage of these tough weeks of tough measures to allow for a rest of that approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u116	Thank you. Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u117	I heard Mr Jetten talking about having to seduce people to go into quarantine. Of course it is extremely important to go into quarantine if you are infected or if you are called upon to do so. I would like to know from Mr Jetten how far he wants to go in seducing people. Of course, we all know that getting quarantined is a lot more difficult if you are a lawyer, a caller, a temp or a zero-hour worker, because you lose income immediately, unlike the people who receive a fixed monthly salary. How far does Mr Jetten intend to go in this respect? Does he not agree that there should be a further step in this direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u118	Yes. There's now a first quarantine package or hand-out. I don't know the exact word. You can see that there are very useful things in that, like the Red Cross, who wants to support people in quarantine with volunteers during the difficult days they have to stay home. In addition, the Chamber has repeatedly asked the Cabinet to find a solution for employees orzzp'ers who have to deal with income relapses when they go into quarantine and are therefore forced, either by themselves or by their employer, to come to work. There must therefore be a financial solution for employers and employees or for self-employed people who cannot afford it now. I also see in other countries how people are tempted. How do those days when you have to stay home get easier? This can be because your messages are delivered at home or because you get a small amount to have food delivered at home. It can be ensured that family members who don't need to be quarantined can stay in another place, so that you can stay home safely. That kind of positive temptation to ease that quarantine is needed in addition to what the cabinet has already done and in addition to a search for good financial support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u119	No further questions? Otherwise, I'm gonna be called upon to do it again. Are you sure? All right, Mr. Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u120	I'd like to go back to Staphorst. I am not allowed to interrupt someone who is interrupting, but Mr Jetten said to Mr Wilders in a nutshell: we know that church services on Staphorst led to a corona peak. I was curious to see what he based that on, because I didn't know that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u121	I must also correct that, so thank Mr Van der Staaij for that question. We saw last week that there was a spike in the number of infections in Staphorst, but I can't identify a causal link between that divine service and this peak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u122	It is a good thing that Mr Jetten will come back on that, because this can easily lead his own life again. Indeed, if we stand up for Fatima and others, we must also do Roelof and Klaasje justice in Staphorst.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u123	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u124	Then that's clear, too. Thank you. I'll suspend for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u125	I give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS is pleased that there will be a mouth cap obligation in all public indoor areas. Finally, clarity. We also want that clarity to be taken care of. There are still employers in care who are reluctant to use medical masks preventively, because they are afraid of scarcity. We have been told that there is no shortage anymore, so we ask the Minister to take a stand. Allow people in care to wear preventative masks, unless the employee decides otherwise. This should apply to all sectors of care, nursing care, home care, disability care and so on. Draw a line in there. I'd like a commitment. Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS, like everyone else here, is concerned about regular care. We heard in the technical briefing that it takes 12 weeks for it to return to normal in hospitals. Then why don't we direct to a lower R, for example, of 0.8? A lot of experts argue for that. The technical briefing also mentioned that home care provides less care. You'd expect more home care to be provided, because older people wait longer to go to a nursing home because of that corona. I would like to hear from the Minister how less hours of care can be provided. The professionals in home care published a manifesto under the name "We are tired of it." I'd like to get a reaction to that. Until 1 July, the cabinet asked municipalities to pay the daily expenses. But now the daily spending is in uncertainty. Some providers run at half power because of the amount of space or because customers can no longer come because of the loss of transport. Other locations of daily consumption seem unsuitable due to poor ventilation and should therefore close. Daily spending is so important to clients and carers. How will the Minister, in consultation with the municipalities, ensure that enough daily spending is maintained? Mr. Chairman. The emergency law regulates visiting rights in nursing homes, but we find that there is still a lot of unrest about this in the sector. Last week, a manifesto was also published calling for nursing homes to be closed during the second wave. How's the minister gonna take care of people? That emergency law, that emergency law, is, of course, only temporary. Is the Minister prepared to anchor the visitation right in the Public Health Act? So we know for sure that what we experienced in the first wave never happens again. Mr. Chairman. I read in the Minister's letter that the members of ActiZ checked the ventilation systems in the nursing homes and made adjustments if necessary. Can I conclude from this that all members of ActiZ have the ventilation system in order? What about the nursing homes that aren't connected? 50PLUS wants to know whether research is being carried out into the role of ventilation systems in nursing homes where there is a corona outbreak. A good way to determine whether corona is present in a nursing home is to sample wastewater. I read in the letter that a pilot study was set up to investigate this. We'd like to hear from the Minister when we can expect the results. Mr. Chairman. Since the decision in this Chamber on the third aid and recovery package, we have been faced with a new corona reality with substantial restrictive measures. Yesterday, the President of De Nederlandsche Bank, Klaas Knot, said that stopping aid too quickly would cause more damage than going on for too long. So don't build that aid too quickly and provide additional support to companies that are going to be heavily affected by the new measures, such as the catering and events sector. Support must be appropriate to the challenges faced by businesses. For this, it is not enough for financial support to breathe with the economy and the loss of revenue, as this has been happening since 1 October under austere conditions. Since 1 October, 100% loss of turnover has been compensated for not more than 90%, but 80% of the wage bill. That could just mean the neck blow for companies that have to close. We tabled a motion on this two weeks ago, and we will do so again. We hope, however, that this is not necessary, because the cabinet accepts its responsibility and makes a commitment. Mr. Chairman. Limit the economic damage and prevent the corona crisis from spilling over to the financial sector in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u127	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The inhuman drama of the first wave took place to a large extent in nursing and nursing homes. Vulnerable older people were locked up instead of getting fresh air. The caregiver was told that personal protective equipment would not be necessary. The mantra "with 50% of knowledge, making 100% of decisions" is an incantation to cover mistakes. There were examples elsewhere where things were getting better, but the Prime Minister refused to look at them again and again. After Mr Asscher's excellent words just now, I think it is time for a great mea culpa towards victims and relatives for this failing policy during the first wave. This time, the inhuman drama of the second wave is likely to take place mainly in the catering industry. In recent weeks, there have been disproportionate fines for small catering businesses. And now because of the draconian lockdown, they don't get sales for a month. The banks have already announced that they will not be so flexible in the event of a delay in payment. The smaller catering entrepreneur is screwed. Restaurants that do follow the rules must also close. I don't understand. I'm considering a motion on that point. The fight against the virus must be given the power of a military-led operation at this stage. The scarcity of testing and care capacity must be immediately eliminated. Instead, the Minister promises that the Dutch State will pay the damages claims if the vaccine has side effects. Doctors know how to treat this disease. Research from Zwolle shows that there is hope with other medicines. Is the Minister going to do everything in his power to be at the forefront of this medication, or is he going to keep stepping on the brakes? Like my colleague Van Kooten-Arissen, I would like to have an answer to the reports that the higher numbers hospitalizations are the result of a false registration in the past, as NU.nl now reports. Are these messages correct or not correct? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u129	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u130	Madam President. It's not going well. We're taking firm measures and there's a partial lockdown. We'll do it in hope of blessing. Nevertheless, as colleagues have said, I am asking for a moment of self-reflection. I do not do that from the moon, as if I had no part in it at all; I do so from great commitment. Still, isn't it too late? Didn't the scaling up of the tests go so well that we weren't ready for the second wave? Then my second question: how can we improve communication? We have 2.5 million low-literate students in the Netherlands. They are not being sufficiently achieved. How do we get to them? But the message does not come from large sections of the population either. A large proportion of the population still visit family members with symptoms of illness. Young people have the illusion that covid will not be able to touch them, while some of them suffer permanent health damage. How can we better reach people and how can we change behavior more? Madam President. The road map is good. There's a lot to ask for. It's a good thing it's there. It can help with communication. But we're gonna need the right numbers. When we see that these good figures have not been delivered by a long time, that is very worrying. That's an expensive mistake. But I also saw the first critical reviews: do these measures fit in with the reduction to level 1? Is it in a good relationship? I'd like a reflection on that. Are we able to keep a close eye on measures and the desired level each time? How are we going to bring this to man and woman, so that measures become more predictable and clearer for everyone? Madam President. Testing is crucial and quick tests seem to be the crux. We still hope for a vaccine, but perhaps quick testing is the way to a more relaxed society. In the preparation of the debate, I spoke to a number of people who have put the heads together and have calculated that if people between 15 and 40 take a quick test every week, you will really drive the virus into the corner and that we will have plenty of space again in the foreseeable future. How do you turn it into a national project? How can we make these rapid tests available so that we can see light at the end of the tunnel? Speaking of tests, I am surprised that tests at Schiphol Airport are still not successful or that no priority is given to them. It was good that the Prime Minister said something about flying to and from orange regions, that he was critical of that. But still, the last minute offers are still there and are still going around, also to orange areas. I think that's really amazing. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the efforts we are making are very half-hearted. I see a number of colleagues in the left-hand corner nodding very violently. Madam President. I am also concerned about the displacement of care and the burden on our healthcare workers. The sounds I hear about that are really very, very worrying: people who already can't keep up, extra strain on people who just can't keep up. How long are we gonna last? How do we help them? How do we get them to stand up? The pressure and the outage are very large. We also have care-avoidance. I would like an appeal from the cabinet to the people who are now avoiding care. Can the cabinet, in consultation with patient organisations, get a better view of who those people are who are now avoiding that concern? Madam President. Then care for the vulnerable. There was an arrangement for pgb budget holders until 1 July. Could it be recreated? Is there room for homeless and homeless shelters to return to 24-hour reception, even if it doesn't freeze yet? There is a directive, but there are great concerns that people are falling between shores and ships. And can we hear from the cabinet again, as we heard during the first wave in spring, that there are no house expulsions? If we are in a second wave again and when winter comes, can we at least ensure that people are not evicted from their homes, especially not at this time? What continues to amaze me, not only in corona time but certainly now, is our handling of prostitution. It's very strange that we have a one-and-a-half-meter society and that prostitution just... Well, I'm surprised that's seen as an ordinary profession, but especially now, that those streets also stay open. Why? I can't hug my mom, but people get to go to a prostitute. If measures are taken there, do offer help, stand next to them and make sure they do not fall between shore and ship. Finally, Madam President. We're going to have a winter that might be very spicy. In any case, a winter is a bit darker than summer. In the spring we went towards the light, we enjoyed the clean air and there was a sense of solidarity. Now there's a second wave, and it hits people hard. Then what we need is taking care of each other and helping each other. That call was made by the cabinet, and it said, "Don't forget to do it on your own street." I would like to point out to the Cabinet that there are also voluntary organisations, national networks such as Present, Humanitas and #Not only those who do so not only on their own streets but can mobilise many more people to see the other. I would ask the Cabinet to give them the opportunity to do so and to engage with them, so that in the second wave we keep the same solidarity that we experienced in the first wave. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u131	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is again in a lockdown. Last night, the Prime Minister announced a pile of heavy measures. Many parties have already discussed this today. We agree with the concerns that have been expressed, concerns about the scaling down of care, those ongoing problems with source and contact research and about the impact this new lockdown will have on our society. But my group was very anxious to see the need for tough intervention in aviation and slaughterhouses during that press conference. On this point, the cabinet remains genuinely inadequate as far as we are concerned. It's not clear where that fear came from. That is why I would like to use my speaking time today to convince the cabinet that restrictions in these two sectors are absolutely essential. Mr. Chairman. Following our vote, the Prime Minister stressed at the press conference that travelling to high-risk areas during the autumn holidays was strongly discouraged. Very nice of course, but it's not nearly enough to warn people alone. Today there are 193 flights landing from risk area at Schiphol Airport, tomorrow again, and the day after that again. 193 flights! That's thousands of people who spent hours sitting on top of each other in a locked room without that five-foot radius. That five-foot distance never existed on a plane. Even today, almost 200 fun flights rise for a sun holiday to Spain or Italy for example. And in two weeks, if we have gotten those infections down again with a lot of pain and effort, hopefully, these people will return to the Netherlands with hundreds of them at once. Our dike surveillance is as leaky as a basket. This is really asking for trouble. At the OMT advice we received a report from the RIVM on foreign travel. Between July and September, according to RIVM, 7% of covid contamination was contracted abroad. 7%! The catering and leisure activities, including amateur sport, have been responsible for respectively 3% and 4% of the total number of infections since July. How is it possible that no stricter measures have still been taken to restrict foreign travel? I really don't understand how you can present a roadmap with a cup of domestic travel, but not a cup of foreign travel. How is that possible? I'd like a response. An important reason to close down the catering industry is because of the risk of cluster contamination, as the Prime Minister said yesterday. A cluster contamination means that dozens of people become infected at the same time because they are too close to each other in the same space. Well, what planet is flying on not a life-threatening risk of those cluster infections? Mr. Chairman. I really want the Cabinet to do three things today. The cabinet has to admit that aircraft are a life-threatening risk. Those planes need to stay on the ground. Reducing risks in aviation should become an integral part of the fight against the virus and should at least be part of the roadmap. I'm considering a motion on this point. I really want to respond to the three points I have raised. It really can't go on like that. Then go to the slaughterhouses, another sector where keeping 1.5 metres away is not possible in many places and where one infection can easily lead to cluster contamination of hundreds of people at once. However, slaughterhouses may continue to go crazy at full speed. At the moment, there is even an increase in production: even faster slaughter in order to be able to export more pork to China. There's no way that five feet is gonna work. Even more people are shoulder-to-shoulder at work, while the Lower House called for an immediate reduction in the rate of slaughter. While the Minister is investigating how this can be legally anchored, the sector is continuing. Theaters follow the rules. There is intervention by the cabinet, but the meat sector gets plenty of work. We really cannot explain that. In Germany, before the summer, it was seen that intervention in the meat sector could not lead to more than 1,500 infections within one holding. Over the past week, you will also see that 175 infected employees have been discovered at two German slaughterhouses, while employees are tested there several times a week, sometimes daily. The German government is really on top of this with a lot of tests and good source and contact research, and yet you can see that there are still infections there. We don't know how things are in the Netherlands. There's no testing, there's hardly any checking and we don't see how it's going there. If you decide to focus the capacity of the GGD in the region entirely on those fireplaces such as the slaughterhouses, so the GGD simply has to direct it, then we are really going to miss it. That is absolutely unacceptable to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u133	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u134	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, the cabinet de facto declared a lockdown: not effective, not proportionate and extremely harmful. The cabinet pretends we can beat the corona virus, but everyone knows that the virus will stay among us. So we need to look for solutions that do less harm. Smart solutions so that young people can continue their lives, for example by focusing on protecting the elderly. Why don't we investigate a scenario where older people and vulnerable people themselves keep a little more distance and, for example, go shopping voluntarily at special times? Why don't we choose smart solutions to accommodate the catering industry, for example? 500,000 people in the catering industry have done an incredible amount of work to comply with all the rules, and that is why the infections in the catering industry are extremely low. Why is the hospitality industry being punished so severely? Why do we not offer the catering industry the opportunity to stay open when the corona requirements and ventilation are well regulated instead of the hospitality industry now paying the price for years of cuts in care?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u135	Mr Van Haga has already had a few times... In this debate, he actually says: can we not reverse the lockdown as it were, so can we not protect older people better? That sounds very attractive, but how exactly does Mr Van Haga see it? What groups, who are you supposed to protect?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u136	I am very pleased with this question, because this is, of course, exactly what it is all about. I think it would be very good if older people and vulnerable people would voluntarily follow the same corona rules and then facilitate them with some smart things, such as shopping at certain times. I think a lot of the elderly and vulnerable don't mind at all. That doesn't have to result in some kind of dystopian two-stream society, because we actually have that two-stream society now. The entrepreneurs are now paying a very high price and the vulnerable and the elderly are being spared by them, but you can also turn it around and do it in a more friendly way, as happened in Sweden, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u137	I'm asking because if you look closely at who's vulnerable in this crisis, you can see that 85-plussers are, but that's actually also the 50-plussers running quite a risk. Look at what 50-plussers do for important work in this society: about 40% of the people in care is 50-plus and the same percentages also apply to the police and education. If you turned it around and said "we need to protect these people better," that means that those teachers can no longer stand in front of the classroom. That has a huge effect on the schools. It means people can't work in health care anymore, so who's gonna take care of the people in hospitals? So I think it's a little too easy for Mr Van Haga to turn it around. I wish it were that easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u138	I don't think it's very easy. I do not think it is statistically true that there are a lot of fifties in those risk spheres, but I do think there are fifty people who suffer from underlying suffering. They must start scratching their heads about how they are going to behave. I think that the collateral damage, both socially and culturally, as well as economically, as well as medically, is now so great that it would be good to consider that other scenario, but I fully agree with Mr Klaver that it is not an easy task.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u139	In interrupting Mr Van Haga never really, but I'm doing it now because he's doing it very easily. I'm also getting that question back from people more and more often as if you could change that. I've been thinking about it. Because I think that as people you have ideas, even if you think it's a bad idea, you should think about it. I'm sketching here that if you look at the numbers, you'll see that the risks are from 50-plus. These are the people who come to hospitals in general, with the greatest risks of death. They showed it this morning, that the risk of death as you get older is increasing. And all these people have crucial functions in our society. And then here, easy to pretend that we just need to separate those people for a little while... even if you're in favour of a two-stream society, we need those people to keep our society running. I would ask Mr Van Haga not to come up with this kind of easy solutions, because we need those teachers, we need the people in education and those policemen, and we need people in many more places. That means we have to be careful with each other to save as many people as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u140	I object to the word "easy." It's not easy at all. It's even incredibly difficult. But what is even more difficult is the situation in which most people in the Netherlands are now. They are now faced with a lockdown that, as far as I'm concerned, is wrong, which makes the damage many times greater than when we would look in a bit of an intelligent way at a differentiation in ages in a reverse way. I think we should just think about that. Apparently, Mr Klaver has already done so. I do not see any consideration in the cabinet in that direction, and that is why I made that remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u141	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u142	Mr. Chairman. We also need to come up with smart solutions to keep Dutch people healthy. Why, for example, is outdoor sports banned in groups, whereas this is good for mental and physical health? And smart solutions to meet the entertainment industry. Why don't we just let outdoor festivals in with a good protocol? After all, the Efteling also remains open. And smart solutions to relieve the burden of care. For example, why didn't we set up a large coronah hospital somewhere in the Netherlands? We've had seven months. I understand that there has been huge cuts in the last ten years, but we could have done a little more in the last seven months and such a specific coronahospital doesn't seem like a bad idea. In my opinion, it would greatly reduce the risks to regular care. Mr. Chairman. I have asked written questions about the recently adapted criteria for the PCR test. I would like to hear from the Minister when this happened and why, and if he thinks that this affects the higher percentage of positive PCR tests, which he still equates to infections. Mr. Chairman. It is very important for people in this country to regain their perspective. Tougher short-term measures, such as a lockdown, do not fit in at the moment. Lockdown only leads to social, cultural, economic and medical collateral damage, without providing a long-term solution. As far as we are concerned, we use our common sense and now stop damaging society. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u143	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's not good. Chaos, despondency and despair. That's what I get back from society. People have been mugged against the corona virus. After Rutte and De Jonge's press conference, I got a call from literally crying catering entrepreneurs, who have to shut down their business again for four weeks. For four weeks, social life is on its way. There are also people who have been working at home for seven months and are really tired of missing their colleagues. It shows that the leaders of the corona approach have failed. I think it's okay if they take responsibility for that. The goal was clear: to prevent a second wave, to protect the vulnerable and to maintain hospital capacity. And where are we now? In a second wave, where the most vulnerable are also the victims, with hospitals that unfortunately have to scale down capacity. Rutte and De Jonge's approach has failed. Mr. Chairman. Could this have been prevented if the government had the basis in order with, as she herself said, sufficient tests but also source and contact research? Could this have been avoided if there had been clearer communication? I read in yesterday's letter '72 sides' that crisis communication has been activated as of today. I thought we were in crisis for about seven months. Not always those vague terms like "urgent opinions" with inimitable deviations. Could it have been prevented if the values in the dashboards had been followed after they were exceeded? Would it have helped if everyone had kept to the rules? The government must now make every effort to ensure that people adapt their behavior and prevent regular care from being scaled down further. And we need extra support. Less than three weeks ago, we discussed the phasing-out of aid measures. A lot of colleagues asked: isn't that too soon? It's too early, because we're just in a second lockdown. What's the government gonna do for these people? Mr. Chairman. It wasn't an easy week, even in a different way. I got a call from a good friend of mine. He sounded in a hurry and emotional. He told me that his mother, 76 years old, had also contracted the corona virus. I got a little stuffy. I looked him up a while ago. His mother is a first-generation Moroccan-Dutch woman, who has always had to get used to new environments and was panic when she was in an untrusted environment. Because they had no capacity in Amsterdam she had to go to Alkmaar and she panicked. But all in all, it went well. She was in the hospital and the shortness of breath became less. She was treated well. Mr. Chairman. All those people who have a loved one on the I.C., they feel the pain. Last weekend they saw the "First Henk and Ingrid and then Ahmed and Fatima" tweet by Wilders. "One people first." So much hate, so much pain, but so much racist shit. In the 1930s, we saw what it does when your peoples turn against each other, if you give one more priority than the other. That corona is now linked to origin is painfully unjust, because Fatima and Mehmet work hard on the ic. I have a sister who works cleaning in a hospital. They are ready for everyone to care for people lovingly. And those people get punched in the face. We know that the Central Planning Office said that the most vulnerable suffer in a crisis: people with lower incomes, people in contact professions, people who cannot afford to work at home because they just have to be on site every day. Mr. Chairman. I notice from the reactions that the Netherlands is done with Wilders' politics. I'm asking the government what it's going to do to protect the extra vulnerable. I'm getting signals today that housing corporations are gonna kick people out of the house. We didn't do that in the last lockdown. Finally, Mr President. We are obliged to all Dutch to do the best. We must not turn peoples against each other. For the lady I just talked about, it's too late. She died last Friday. Her family thanks the hospital in Alkmaar, which took good care of her. I wish them a great deal of strength with the enormous loss.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u145	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u146	Mr. Chairman. It's October 14th, and as of today, we're in a partial lockdown, as the Cabinet calls it. We all agree here in this Chamber, of course, that it is necessary to protect the elderly and others who are susceptible to it as much as possible from the impact of the coronavirus. The question is how this objective can be achieved with the least radical measures. Because 17 million people live in the Netherlands. People who are vulnerable to the virus, but also people who are vulnerable to the measures we take against the virus. People with a disabled child who are no longer able to get good home help, people with addiction problems, people with depression sensitivity, with delayed medical care, people who are vulnerable because they no longer receive normal education as a student, or because they see their business, their life's work, go bankrupt. People in the catering industry, the event industry, the cultural sector, the sport. Millions of jobs are under pressure. For all these people we must pay attention, for all these people we must offer perspective. In February and March last year we didn't know what happened to us. None of us do. We didn't know much about the virus yet, but the number of ICU patients increased enormously. Corona was classified in the same category as Ebola. At that stage, the Forum for Democracy was in favour of a short lockdown as a short-term means of quickly creating space in which everything in care could be put in order: sufficient testing, sufficient protective equipment, setting up special corona centers and attracting or retraining sufficient doctors and nurses. Also to learn more about the virus and to understand which groups are susceptible to it and which are not, so you can do customization. We may not be able to blame the cabinet for the mistakes made at that first stage, but the far-sighted view was remarkably often lacking. It is now October and the test capacity is still not in order. Quick tests are not yet available either. Why is that? Why can't we set up these test centres and, for example, at the entrance of an event or a birthday, allow you to check directly if you have it? Why can't you do that? The insight, for which Maurice de Hond strives, namely that the virus spreads via aerosols, also decreased very slowly in the cabinet. Why weren't Mr. De Jonge and Mr. Rutte open to that? And why did De Jonge wave away the motion, which Van Haga and I submitted in May, to investigate whether hydroxychloroquine could work at an early stage? As it turns out, it probably works, but precious research time has been lost by the government's tunnel vision. Also such a mystery: why was there a shortage of virus inhibitor remdesivir? How is that possible? Just as before the summer the shortage of medical mouth caps, while those in the care of the elderly were so badly needed and were readily available on the world market. More importantly, how is it possible that there is no additional capacity in healthcare, no additional capacity in regular hospital beds, no additional capacity in intensive care beds? I can't understand that. Thousands of nurses, doctors and so on have been sidelined in recent years because of the cuts in health care. The Slotervaart closed, the Bronovo closed and other care centers closed. Why couldn't they be refurbished now? Because that's actually the problem. The capacity in care, that's what we're talking about. That's the corona crisis. I cannot understand why a rich country like the Netherlands in the seven months in which we are struggling with corona has not been able to set up a few thousand extra beds. I find that really incomprehensible. And now we're going into a second lockdown. We're locking down the whole society so we don't overload care. The question is: how do we offer people perspective? A roadmap has been introduced. Level one, vigilant, is effective on less than 50 positive tests on 100,000 inhabitants per week, but also on 0 positive tests per week. At 0 positive tests, the level is still vigilant. So where's the route back to normal? From what numbers does the cabinet itself consider that reopening of society is acceptable again? Or does this mean that the corona measures will remain in force until there is a vaccine, and so until then we will continue to run with all these obligations and measures? But what if there's no vaccine, or it's not for many years? Are we gonna keep yo-yoing, from lockdown to easing and back to lockdown? When will the cure get worse than the disease? The situation is becoming hopeless.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u147	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u148	The population is entitled to multiple scenarios, and I want to hear about this from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u149	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of the first term of office. Suspend an hour? Yes. Then I'll suspend for an hour until 6:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u150	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u151	Madam President. I thought I'd do it so I'd talk about lessons learned from the last few months. In addition, I will talk about the economic consequences of last night's decisions and then I will have a category of varia. The Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport will go a little further on the strategy, also in relation to the roadmap and a number of questions about, for example, testing and quarantine. The Minister for Medical Care will talk about regular care and care staff. That's about the division we planned. I do want to say a few things, because not everything has gone well in the past few months. I think I can say that the strategy stands and that it also has broad support here in the Chamber. In the core, we try to contain the maximum level of control in the event of their occurrence. Then you need to take measures based on the state of the contagion of that moment. What we are seeing today is that there is too much concern about the package of 28 September, which was discussed on 29 September, whether it is doing enough. You don't know for sure. For the hospitalizations you only see it this weekend, for the infections you would like to see the first signs now, but they just don't look good enough yet. Too many data around it are not sufficiently in order, if you look for example at the sewage treatment dates or the number of travel movements. All these values are not in the spectrum you would like, hence the need not to wait, but to take these measures. Hugo de Jonge will go into this in a moment. Is everything okay? No, not everything went well. I'd like to name a few things that I at least want to take as a lesson from the past few weeks. First of all, this is a repetition of what was also discussed in the previous debate. Eight other security regions were added later and went to "worried." You look at the package that goes with it and then you find that the package for "careful" should have been firmer. Because it wasn't strong enough, it also meant that we had to scale up quickly, because it turned out that its effects didn't provide sufficient certainty as to the extent to which we could fight the virus. So a first lesson I'm drawing is that it should have been firmer. This is reflected in the Roadmap. A second point is a point that has also been discussed in the media, namely: how much do you rely on people's own responsibility? Of course, the package of measures we take is always a mix of measures, enforcement and behavior. Through measures and enforcement you can eventually come to behavior, but behavior also comes from other things, such as communication in a broader sense. I'll say something about that in a minute. Looking back on the past few weeks, I have simply put too much emphasis on my own responsibility in my communication. This does not mean that we did not take measures and did not have enforcement, but in communication the lesson I draw is that the emphasis on our own responsibility has been too heavy. It is also important to pay sufficient attention to obligations, fines and the measures themselves. The third element I said at the press conference last night was communication itself and the extent to which communication affects people's behaviour. If you look back on the past two months, you simply have to observe that we, at least I have, with communication have failed to achieve that right behavior, which is necessary and what we saw in March and April. People don't stay home by themselves, and they don't follow the rules themselves. Just yesterday, RIVM reported that 20% of the people infected leave the door. That is simply not good enough and you cannot solve all that with communication. I'm not going to charge myself for that because of my communication, but the communication should have been more effective. You can easily conclude that this has had insufficient effect. How do you bring the Netherlands to that certain behavior is necessary to get that virus under control with each other? Because every viral epidemiological crisis is about behavior in the end. And communication is very important. A fourth element, Mr President, I would like to finish them off, if you will allow me, the measures themselves. If you look back on the package of 28 September, which we have tried to fix now, also in the communicative sense, in last night's package, there was an immediate discussion about what it means for rooms. We had that exception for halls over 30. That would be a very limited number of halls, but in the end the Triangle in Lochem was also found to be an exaggeration, but so to speak, an exception to the rule of 30. The intention was of course that it would only be very large concert halls. It didn't work out well. Another point was the justified criticism that the restaurants and cafés had to close at 10 p.m., but that the alcohol sales went on at AH and Lidl. Thinking through the ripple effects even better.. in good Dutch the after-Il effects........................................................................................................................................... That will never be perfect in future packages either. I shall now come to a question from Mr Van der Staaij about the marriages. Then I think: oh dear, there too the communication has just not been very sharp. But I think it's much sharper now than last time. I'll get back to you in a minute. One final point is that over the last few weeks you have seen a very undesirable image of division. There is discussion, including in the cabinet. There is discussion in the Security Council and yes, there is also a discussion in the OMT. But what you don't want, of course, is that that discussion becomes too visible in the sense that it also creates uncertainty, which makes people think "yes, what is it?" I think that with the previous package of 28 September, which started on 29 September, you should simply note that the alignment was not flawless, that it was too fast, so we had to decide too quickly in the Security Council. There was uncertainty and uncertainty. Same thing in the OMT and actually in the cabinet. That's what we discussed last Sunday at the Catshuis. I never mind if a discussion in the cabinet does not go along party lines, but it should not mean that the image of the cabinet is divided in society. We're not, but there is a discussion about the impact on the economy, isolation, people with chronic disease versus getting control of the virus. Eventually, you're gonna get out of there together, but you're gonna have to take your time. This means that we now have a tighter cycle of two weeks, where from next Sunday or Monday you start to think about the press conference which will most likely take place the next week in two weeks' time. For me, these are some important lessons I've taken from the past week. I wanted to start with that, also challenged by Rob Jetten and others, because it is important not to claim that everything is flawless.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u152	Before I give you the floor, Mr. Wilders, and before we have another argument about the number of interruptions, I'd like to indicate four interruptions in threes. It's up to you to see who it is. Yeah, in threes, you heard. In the end, it is also about the quality of the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u153	Yeah, I think that's a good point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u154	Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u155	So six interruptions in threes. In any case, the Prime Minister is honest in saying that it all did not work out. It may be a bit of an understatement, but at least it's something of self-reflection. What I am missing is that you may not, in part, make the right analysis and, therefore, do not take the right measures and should not, therefore, simply charge people for their behavior. In the meantime, about half the world, half the Netherlands, Mr Van Dissel and also you and the Minister of Health are convinced that the so-called aerogenic infections, with these small drops, when people are in an indoor space and even keep 1.5 meters away, can still take place without proper ventilation. That is something that has now been generally accepted. If you do not acknowledge that, people, while complying with your rules, may still become infected because sufficient ventilation has not been taken into account. And then we have 30%, 40%, and according to some scientists, even 50% more infections that we wouldn't have had if we had looked closely at ventilation, because of the aerogenic infections. Can you say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u156	It's a fact that there's a discussion about that. Mr Wilders is right about that. There are also people in the Netherlands who ask for attention to the risk of aerogenic spread. It's not like we're totally ignoring that either. I understand that Hugo de Jonge is going to go into detail about the whole issue of ventilation, including in schools, for example. I do not have those answers ready, but he will have them in a moment: how do we deal with the theme "ventilation"? Of course, that's part of it. But also the question of how to analyse that point. Mr Wilders is right that there is a lot of discussion about this. It is not that we say it does not matter at all, certainly not. But on the basis of the state of science, our belief is that the 1.5-metre ballistic loop that makes a drop before it falls to the ground remains very important. That's why it's so important to have a foot and a half. So the question is to what extent the virus that is aerogenically distributed contributes to infecting people. There's a lot of discussion about that. We must base ourselves on the state of science. The fact that we are spending so much energy together on the issue of ventilation shows that this is certainly not a subject that we are ignoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u157	I'm afraid we will. I do not deny, however, that this ballistic loop of yours with these large drops within 1.5 metres exists. It's not my story, but the story of scientists and professor Bouma, doctor and epidemiologist, who explains it extensively in an interview and compares the virus with cigarette smoke. If someone lights a cigarette in a room, which is also not wise, but well, then the smoke will stick without ventilation. You can breathe in that smoke and then you can get sick. Well, that's ignored. Your great example in Germany, Mrs Merkel, has said press conference at press conference, including for television: please, take it into account. In bars, in restaurants, in schools, in people's homes, in the Lower House: make sure there is ventilation. Once again, Mr. Prime Minister, please take care of the uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u158	Yeah, once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u159	If it can prevent 30% to 40% of the infections, a large part of the scientists think that "we'd be crazy not to bet on it anymore"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u160	From the precautionary principle, it is also wise to take this seriously. I am just saying that our experts, the broad group of epidemiologists and virologists who advise us, say that there is absolutely also a risk from the aerogenic spread, but that the spread that takes place through the larger drops is still dominant. Hence the 1.5 metres and the whole policy associated with it. But it is certainly not the case that it is said that it does not matter at all. That is why we are so strongly committed to the theme of "ventilation" and that is why RIVM, also in the general sense, says: ensuring good ventilation of indoor spaces, also at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u161	Finally, the third time. It is not about the directive called RIVM. It is a much broader approach to ventilation. That's not happening right now. We have seen that in schools it is bet that it costs a lot of money and time. Parents are uncertain as a result. I am convinced that the catering and other establishments in the Netherlands can remain open if there is good ventilation. I'm sure it will lead to fewer infections. I really don't get it. You tell me every time you think it's important, but in the end nothing happens, Mr. Prime Minister. Nothing's gonna happen to it. You can say to people that they have to change their behavior, I say that at times too, but aerogenic contamination and ventilation have nothing to do with behavior. You can sit somewhere and get infected without ventilation, taking into account the five feet inside. So again the question, now come up with a national ventilation plan and make sure that good ventilation is arranged in schools, in the catering industry, in companies, in the Lower House and in all interior areas. It might just be that in six months' time we'll have half fewer infections if you do. I'm not saying that, but that's what a lot of scientists in the world say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u162	It would be different if I said: it doesn't matter. I'm not saying that. The only question is how much the contribution of aerogenic diffusion is. There is no doubt about the importance of ventilation. It is not for nothing that we pay a great deal of money to ensure that we raise the level of ventilation in schools, also on the basis of the insights that exist about the state of ventilation in schools. The same applies to other places where many people are together and for which the government feels responsible. So you can have a discussion about the extent of the impact of aerogenic diffusion. We agree that there is a certain amount of it. Wilders says to a very large extent. We base ourselves on science and say: to some extent. That does not alter the fact that, according to our conviction, and according to all the scientific evidence, also worldwide, the main way of spreading is the larger drops. Hence the 1.5 meters. So it's not like you can say: if you have good ventilation systems, the whole problem is solved at a table in a restaurant. That would be too easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u163	Mrs Marijnissen, then Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver and Mr Jetten. Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u164	The Prime Minister looks in the mirror and comes to firm conclusions. I think that's good. He says: communication should have been better, there should have been less emphasis on one's own responsibility and action should have been taken earlier. I think that's right. We have often advocated this here too. At the same time, and that makes me less reassured, the Prime Minister says that the strategy stands. My question is how he can look in the mirror, come to such firm conclusions and at the same time say that the strategy stands. Does that mean, I ask the Prime Minister, that he does not intend to change anything about that strategy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u165	Let's talk about the speed of intervention. When we saw that things were happening in regions, we made agreements within the time available. First we did that with six and then with eight regions. That's what happened within the time frame. I only think, and that is one of the lessons I am taking here, that the package as a whole at that level has not been worryingly robust enough. That's the lesson we took. This is reflected in the Roadmap. In that we come with a firmer package. The overarching strategy as we have often discussed and on which I also thought we had reached consensus is the maximum control of the virus. That means restraining where it stands. You do that by taking measures that match the state of the infection. For example, we did this on 28 September. For example, hospitalisations are still precisely following up. You can't see a bow yet, and it hasn't been foreseen yet. Actually, you're not gonna see that until next weekend. In the rise of the number of infections you would actually want to see a slight decline, and you still don't see enough. That's a good reason to step in now. Plus some of the surrounding factors aren't good either. I just called them. Although you don't have the complete picture yet, don't sit around waiting. Then, from the precautionary principle, you must now intervene and take the necessary measures. This fits within the strategy of maximum control. This means that you contain infections and that you eventually send on some important indicators.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u166	Look, we're standing here right now because it just went badly wrong. In the summer it went quite well. There were few infections in the Netherlands. Now we're in what the Cabinet calls a partial lockdown. That is what is happening, and the Prime Minister himself is doing that analysis, just because there has been too late intervention. I don't quite understand why the Prime Minister is still tying these things together. That gives me little confidence in how to proceed. If there was a commitment to contain the virus and jump on top of it immediately, it would also have been a choice for locally firmer measures at an earlier stage. That didn't happen. Of this, the Prime Minister himself admits today that that was actually wrong and that we should have done so at the time. So my question to the Prime Minister is again whether, learning from what has gone wrong now, he should not also acknowledge that the strategy should now be aimed at where the virus pops up immediately and contain that virus, perhaps even more than the cabinet said it did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u167	That was and is the strategy. We agree on that. The question is, were you late and was it enough? I don't mean we were late. I think we have taken measures every time as the state of the virus that made it necessary. I just think that you should have found that the package should have been firmer when we went to the level of concern. That is what I said in the previous debate. We then took additional measures from the precautionary principle on 29 September, when we were not yet sure what the impact of that package would be, but we were very concerned about that effect. What you are looking at now is that it is not really certain whether that works, but that we are taking additional measures. We are doing so because we do not have enough reason to say, in the whole of the development of the virus: we are waiting until next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u168	It's kind of hard for me. The Prime Minister says, "We'll send in on the number of contagions." But what happened, let's see something else. The cabinet's communication keeps showing something else. The Prime Minister himself mentioned this as a point that did not go well. I think that's right. Because we've actually heard from the summer onwards: boys, it's all a bit careful with each other, because the number of infections is increasing, but also rest assured, the hospitals can handle it. I think this has been a mistake and that this lesson should also be taken. What we can learn from it, and what we actually knew, is: at the moment when it goes wrong in the hospitals, we are already too late. We'd have lost control of the virus a long time ago. We'd have lost sight of the virus a long time ago. So that's where we're at now. I think that is very serious when you see the impact that that has on all those people who are now seeing their income ruined, all those companies that are going to break down and all those sectors that are standing still. That is all the result of this. I would like today to call on the Prime Minister to acknowledge that. He says that there was an intervention earlier if it was sent to contagion. But there hasn't been any intervention before. This has always been said at all press conferences: in the hospitals it is not so bad, the hospitals can still handle it, the hospitals are not yet overflowing. Does the Prime Minister acknowledge today that this has not been good?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u169	Just so you're very precise, because if you're taking lessons, you have to draw them very precisely. I think there are a lot of lessons to be learned from the past few months. However, I also believe that we have taken measures on time, or about where we planned to do so, and most of the time we have taken measures on time. I just think that the package at the level was worryingly not strong enough. That is why, in the Roadmap, we have made the package more secure at the level. You take measures that match the state of the infections at that time and the insights you have about them. If you look very closely at the moment, you should actually wait until this weekend for measures to be taken. We don't. You cannot wait to see that a few indicators are too uncertain at the moment and the consequences of not taking measures from the precautionary principle would have too great an effect on the situation in hospitals, on the intensive care departments, but also, above all, on the nursing departments where there is now the problem of delayed operations and interventions and pressure on emergency services. That's why we're doing that now. You're not waiting. So everything went okay? No. I just shared a few lessons. However, I do not believe, when I listen to Mrs Marijnissen, that we are now discussing the strategy, the maximum control of contamination if it occurs, or the maximum control of it as a general strategy. I think the discussion is now: do you think you should have done more earlier? I think that every time we knew how the virus spread, we would have taken decisions on the basis of all the advice and our insights, and, if necessary, we would have taken additional decisions. There is at least one lesson to be learned, namely that the package at the level was worryingly not strong enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u170	The Prime Minister says here that he was always on time, but it should have been firmer in one case. That's just not right. At the beginning of August, the number of infections in Amsterdam went through the limit value. And what did the cabinet do next? Nothing. A little later Rotterdam and The Hague. What did the Cabinet do? Nothing. In September, shortly after the General Reviews, on 17 September, the numbers continued to rise further, through all the critical limits set by the Cabinet itself, in terms of ic recordings, hospitalizations, R factor and number of infections on the total population. What did the Cabinet do? One thing, which is to cancel the last round in the pub. Will the Prime Minister now acknowledge that he was late and too light with his reactions, and that this is not something of the package of 29 September, but of August? That's when the problem arose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u171	I believe that the package which responded to the situation surrounding the contagion in the six regions, with measures announced on Friday evening and entered on Sunday evening, and then the measures in the other eight regions announced the following Friday and entered the following Sunday, was not heavy enough. Absolutely. But if you look at the whole decision-making process, it was within the deadlines we had set for that. If then it becomes clear that our understanding of the virus and its measures do not have sufficient effect, then you must take additional measures immediately. That is the package we made on 28 September, which entered into force on 29 September and which was discussed in the Chamber on 30 September.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u172	The Prime Minister says it was on time, because we responded to the deadline we had set for it. That's actually the argument here. But we can see now that it wasn't in time. We warned in July, warned in August. Not only did we do that, but also the experts. It has been warned on all sides: it goes up too fast. Then you cannot say: but we have responded in the time limit set for that. You just have to establish that there has been too late and too light response. There's no denying it. That's not a problem for the past two weeks. That's not just a communication problem. That problem was already there in August. I'm still asking the Prime Minister if he's prepared to learn lessons. Otherwise, it's gonna happen again. Then we finally have these infections under control, and then the cabinet is going to sit back and wait until the level where we are now. Does the Prime Minister recognise that intervention should have been taken sooner and more firmly if you now see how these infections have gone?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u173	I believe that, when we found that the level of concern was reached in six regions, we took the measures within the prescribed time limit. I do not think that package of measures is heavy enough. That's one of the lessons I'm taking here tonight. That is why the Roadmap now makes this package much heavier. If you then look back, if you knew what you know now, then of course you could have done things differently. But you have to make a decision at that time. Then you look at: what is the state of the infections, what is the state of the spread, what is the state of the emergence and what measures do these include? That's what you're doing at the time, based on all the insights that exist at the time. I think that is one of the lessons that we should have been more careful at that level. That's what I said last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u174	I know. But I'm just asking if, with what you know now, you shouldn't have been sooner. The answer to that is extremely simple, because everyone can see it. Look where we've ended up. The peak isn't there yet. He'll be here in November. Look what kind of message we have now for cafe owners doing their stinking best, for theaters who have invested. Look where we ended up. I am not talking about whether you could have made that decision at the time, because you took it on the basis of your own timetable. The lesson we need to learn here is that there has been too late and too light response. My question to this Prime Minister is: are you a hard learner and do you almost continue to say "no, if I were to do so then, but here is a triangle that I said was not good" or do you recognise that it should have been taken more seriously earlier, namely in August, when the limit values were exceeded in the big cities and when we could have contained it with much lighter and more targeted policies?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u175	Measures have also been taken in the major cities. We also took national measures in August. When we saw that six regions went to the level of concern, so when the number of infections began to move between 50 and 150 per 100 000 in those regions, we took measures at that time within the prescribed time limit. Of course, you can now look at the total rise. Of course, that's always the case with a virus that you're trying to fight with each other. It's about the combination of measures and behavior. It's always a combination. The measures aren't gonna do it. It's the behavior that comes out of it. This combination has not sufficiently led to a reduction in the number of infections, making it necessary to take additional measures on 28 September. At the moment, we are once again finding that the rise does not give sufficient cause to say that we are looking at it for a few more days. So we're not waiting. We are now taking action again because we say: we need to do more. That's exactly how I think it's going to be. You have to watch each time how the virus develops, how it stands with the state of the infection and what measures fit in with it. So yes, I say to Louis Asscher, at one point he is certainly right: that package at level should have been more worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u176	Mr Asscher, President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u177	It's not about getting right. The important thing is that we really learn from it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u178	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u179	Because there's a terrible problem. A lot of people are sick. People are getting these calls right now that the operation is off. My point is that it was more likely that we would have been able to prevent that if more serious intervention had taken place in August. That is indeed with the knowledge of today, although you were already warned at that time. With the knowledge of today, there's no denying that. So I am not asking the Prime Minister to repeat what he said two weeks ago, but I am asking him to learn from what we have to establish with our knowledge of the present. If you want to contain the virus, you want to kick out the fire, to quote De Jonge, you have to react sooner, so not only when it comes to between 50 and 150 infections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u180	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u181	But sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u182	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u183	And firmer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u184	We did. The level is worrying...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u185	That's not done. In August, that was absolutely not done. I understand. My question is: will the Prime Minister acknowledge, and learn from, that he should have done so by August? That's the honest story for the people who are so worried right now. That is where the problem arose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u186	I want to learn everything and admit mistakes. I just did that at the beginning of my contribution. I've learned five lessons from the past few months. But at this point, we may not entirely agree. It's possible. Once again, I agree with the level of action at the level of concern. But when we saw that at the level below the case started to rise to 50 infections per 100,000, we issued national directives and gave additional advice, even in August. At the time, there was a lot going on in the cities as well. There are many locations closed in many places and more has been maintained. Measures were taken at the time. Then, when we saw that it went from level to level worryingly, we took all kinds of measures. We did this first with six regions and then with eight regions. That wasn't easy. It was also a learning process to get out with the six regions. Moreover, this has not led to delays. It gave a lot of administrative hustle and bustle, but within the time span before that. So yes, that package should have been more substantial in substance, but I do not agree with Mr Asscher that we were too late. If you look back, the combination of measures and behaviour has not led to a reduction in the number of infections. Of course, that's a fact. That is why the packages of 29 September and yesterday were needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u187	Finally, my final question on this point. I realise that the Prime Minister does not want to acknowledge that it was too late in August, because he says: there was a reaction at that time. In any case, I think that there is no denying that these measures should have been more robust, because the number of infections continued to increase cheerfully afterwards. If the Prime Minister does not want to acknowledge that it was too late, one can see, looking back, that it would have been better to intervene earlier. Because you don't want to end up in a level of concern at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u188	It's always a combination of measures, behavioral advice, how do you deal with the virus's situation as such and enforcement. That includes communication. Eventually, this should lead to behavior. It's that sum. You can see that this sum of measures and behavior did not ultimately lead to a decrease in the virus. That's why we're in the situation we're in right now. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u189	It's nice to see that there's been intervention in August. That could have been stronger, as could have been done in September. But I'm interested in the question you're actually sending to. If I see now that it is actually still about hospital capacity, we saw that in the hearing too, then I am worried. We have known since March that we cannot completely reduce the number of infections to zero, but ultimately it is about whether we control the number of infections. The problems that arose in August with the test capacity and thus also with the source and contact research should have been a reason to intervene earlier. That's why I'm asking the Prime Minister about the sequel. Is that the time to send in, to make sure we keep the virus in sight and in view? If we don't, I expect third and fourth lockdowns. That's what we're trying to prevent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u190	You send on only one thing, and that's the containment of infection sites with the aim of controlling the virus to the maximum. In addition, you have a number of objectives. You are indeed looking at the situation of hospitals and you are looking at the position of elderly people and people with vulnerable health. You also look at the sight and insight into the virus. It's a collective responsibility to control the virus with each other. The sight of the virus is, of course, primarily the responsibility of the government. That's what I said at the press conference yesterday. We've now increased the leg to the test capacity. If the test capacity is not optimal, you will of course have less visibility than when the test capacity is maximum and can fully meet the demand. That means that the vision was less, and now, fortunately, the average is getting better, compared to what you would have wanted it to be at that time. It's not like we didn't have visibility, but we had less vision, because the test capacity wasn't enough. That was not comparable to March and April, when we had no idea of the total number of infected people. We didn't get that until retrospectively because of the number of hospital and ic recordings.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u191	That is important, because we know that it is ultimately about the question of how to keep your grip on this. I find it worrying if the Prime Minister calls this one of the factors. The moment we see that we can't control it anymore and we can't see it anymore, it's the moment it can't be kept. That's what we've seen now. This calls for a relatively early and firm intervention. I remember that in August, the mayors of Rotterdam and Amsterdam wanted to have a duty of silence and asked for even more support from the cabinet in these measures. The cabinet said: "It really is the responsibility of those regions. We don't think those mouth caps work." It is very painful to see that another decision was reached six weeks later. So in August, the measures to be taken by the mayors in the regions were underestimated. Nor was the test policy of which the Prime Minister is responsible not in order. So we let it happen that we are now in this situation. I think that the Prime Minister is too easy to put away as a collective responsibility. No, we didn't have the policy in order either!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u192	I don't think that's real. To start with the masks, there has indeed been six or seven months of discussion in the Netherlands, including from me and the cabinet. I fully acknowledge that. But there is no one in the Netherlands who says: with the mouth caps you solve the problem. The mouth caps contribute something and all the things added up lead to a further spread of the virus, so we have said collectively here for two weeks: we pull the knot out and we're going to do it. That led to questions: oh, it is an urgent advice, but should it? That is why we said yesterday: let us also make it legally binding. We're gonna take care of that for the next few weeks. But those mouth caps are not going to solve the problem of rising numbers as such. It's not the big silver bullet that solves the problem. The second is that we can only hold collective control of the virus, based on the sum of behavior. In every epidemiological crisis, the behavior is ultimately what it accomplishes. The government has an important role to play in communication, with measures and enforcement. I just mentioned one of my lessons: when I talk about own responsibility and people do not do enough, then of course that also leads to perhaps less compliance, following the behavior you would like. I acknowledge that and think that I should communicate more clearly myself, in ugly Dutch. I need to tell you more clearly, to get it out louder. But the government can't lose control of the virus. We can only do that with each other, or we can keep the grip together, so a combination of measures and behavior. The visibility is, of course, a public responsibility. I agree with Mr Klaver. But the sight wasn't gone. The visibility became less because we could test less than we wanted, but it is not that the vision disappeared with it. But you want to have more insight into it. There are now so many infections that the BCO, the source and contact research, is impossible to keep track of by the GGD. Therefore, the number should also be very significantly reduced, so that you can again have BCO fully done to some reasonable extent by the GGD. But then you really have to go to a level of in principle among the 1,500 infections, if that GGD is to be able to do it fully again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u193	I think this is part of the problem of the approach, if you continue to stress that it is a collective problem to get control of the virus. Let's take a look at the test policy. That's to understand how many infections there are. But if it takes you too long to get a test report, if it takes you too long to get the results, then there are people who don't take their responsibility and don't go into quarantine. You can say that it's irresponsible, that you shouldn't do it and that it's wrong, but that doesn't get us there. The fact remains that people don't stick to that, sometimes because they have no income and sometimes for a very bad reason. But this is something we as a government can have in order. I think it's too easy for the Prime Minister to tell us to do it together. No, the things that we as a government can have in order must be right. If they are correct, we can rightly point to all the others that they do not comply with the agreements, but it takes far too long before people can be tested and have a rash. That still means that a lot of people, when they don't know if they're contagious, still go out on the street or go to work. That's wrong. That's where a lot of infections come from. And that's a government responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u194	Exactly: I agree with Klaver that you would like that test capacity to have been put in place earlier. We simply see that we have kept up with the estimates, but that reality has caught up with us. The number of tests requested was much higher and work is being done with man and power to reach that level. Fortunately, over the past few weeks, you've seen that we're recovering that leg at a rapid rate, but that can't be an argument why the government itself would be responsible for a higher rise in the virus. People have to abide by the joint agreements that apply to this. And when you're infected, you stay home. It's not like you're staying home, but you don't because the test takes longer. That can't be true. Of course, I will finish this point quietly, President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Klaver does not speak any nonsense on this point. I understand there's an indirect effect if your test policy is perfect. If people don't follow the rule "I'm staying at home," perhaps because they think the test is taking too long, it can also have an effect on the spread of the virus. But that's not what we're physically necking right now. What is necking us at the moment is that the collective sum of measures and behaviour does not lead to the desired effect. We can blame the people who do not follow the rules, while a lot of people do comply with the rules, but collectively we as the Netherlands do not have it for each other, is simply the determination. The sight of it is our responsibility as a government. I agree. But it's not like you can blame the government with less eyesight that it's getting up. In addition, the measures and behaviour should lead to control of the virus. It allows you to contain infections and control the virus to the maximum.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u195	Finally. I don't think we should talk about who's blaming us at all. This is a virus. That's nobody's fault. It's about who has what responsibility. I think it's too easy to say we all have to do this, people have to go into quarantine. No, the government didn't have her affairs in order. The test policy wasn't right. The estimates were too low. We didn't have enough test capacity. The BCO wasn't enough. That's why we put people in a position that they could easily get out of that quarantine. We haven't arranged for people who have no income to have a quarantine fee if they go into quarantine. We haven't arranged that if people can't quarantine at home, we'll use one of the vacant hotels to quarantine them there. You can call that very paternalistic. That doesn't fit with this liberal prime minister. But let us look through ideologies, be very practical and not blame anyone for doing it. We have to make sure that people keep their end of the bargain. This can be done either by being very strict and punishing if people do not follow the rules or make it easier. The failing test policy has really made it harder for people to stick to it. I think that is a very big problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u196	I do not deny that there can be an indirect effect of fewer tests than you would like, which makes people, who are just supposed to follow the rules, think: I do not do it. But someone can't say in the Netherlands: it's also logical that I didn't stay home, because the government took too long to have me tested. Mr Klaver does not say that, but you could hear that in his words. Fortunately, Mr Klaver does not draw that conclusion, but you could almost hear it in his words. That couldn't be true. In the end, the rule is: you stay at home with complaints. The rule is not: I stay at home with complaints, but I can leave the door if testing takes too long. If these tests last longer, there can of course be an effect that a certain group will say: I'll go out on the street anyway. The government has the responsibility to keep the best possible view and insight into the virus. Clover's right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u197	All the way to the end. My grandmother can say this at home and says it regularly: all those young people who do not follow the rules cannot do so. She places it mostly with those people herself. It's okay. Individuals can do that at home, but we can't. There is a difference between all those people in the Netherlands who hear and think this: yes, it is indeed the responsibility of everyone to keep to the agreements. But you make the policy and we control it. We are jointly responsible for this. If that is not in order, then it does not give a pass to point out: people simply have to stick to it. It was supposed to be in order. That is not true and additional steps need to be taken now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u198	I do not think that accusation is real. I want to be honest with you. We see how much the demand for tests went way beyond the estimates and how much work has been done to make sure that you can pull that leg back. I do not think it is fair to say that society does have a point and that one can say: you know, then I won't stay home. That's not real. I really don't think that's real.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u199	We ask a lot of people with this new smart lockdown or lockdown light over the next few weeks. Yesterday the word reciprocity was rightly dropped. That is what I have asked for in previous debates. People said: what has the government done in recent months to prevent this second corona wave? I therefore welcome the fact that the Prime Minister is starting his reply tonight with a very elite self-reflection of what he himself and what the cabinet should have done better in recent months. This helps to support the heavy measures that will be taken in the coming weeks. I think that the cabinet with the roadmap already brings more predictability to the corona policy. The Prime Minister himself now states that putting the tests and the source and contact research in order to put the virus in order in the next few weeks will help to further improve the visibility of the virus. He also briefly talked about communication, people's behaviour and how you can influence that as a government. I am curious to see how the Prime Minister is going to take advantage of these tough measures over the next few weeks to see how communication from the cabinet should be improved and what more the Cabinet can do to influence people's behaviour in a positive way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u200	That's the Koolmite project. Koolmees was already known as part of the troika and as Minister of Social Affairs, but he is also the inventor of the Koolmeesdoctrine. The Koolmeesdoctrine says that behavior is ultimately the essence, that it is not about the measures but about the behavior; but how do you come from measures and enforcement to behavior? It's all about communication. This also includes the fact that you are equestrianly naming the enormous impact it has. That is what we did yesterday in the press conference, and I think we saw on average positive reactions to it. It is not just about the impact on companies that are huge, the toughest possible dice for the food industry and other sectors, but also on people with vulnerable health, chronically ill, elderly and young people who are all facing great psychological pressure at the moment. naming it is one of the lessons I have learned myself. I feel the same way, but I sometimes blame myself for saying that more often. I try to make what I see in society and what touches me incredibly much more in my personal communication. But the problem is more complicated. As a cabinet, therefore, we will soon, prepared by Wouter Koolmees, also talk to the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau with a whole group of people, to strengthen that strategy again and to ensure that you do everything you do. I do not want to call it dog whistles, as Mr Wilders was accused of earlier in the debate. You have to have the conversation with the people in the country, in a way that makes people recognize: this is about me, it is there in politics The Hague also sees what it means to me personally and I also understand that we collectively have a responsibility in it. That government too, as it turns out tonight, has really not everything perfect for each other. There too, mistakes are sometimes made. They'll have to admit it. Mr Jetten was right about that in his response to the press conference yesterday. On this particular point of communication, I have already learned one lesson. I used it yesterday. Another will be that we're going to see what comes out of that much deeper analysis. I'm not gonna send a letter to the Chamber about that, that question would come, because then you're gonna talk about how you're gonna communicate. I expect that to become very visible. There has already been a club in the cabinet, of Cora van Nieuwenhuizen and Sigrid Kaag. Together, they have looked at the whole communication approach so far and learned ten lessons from it on how to improve it. We're applying them, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u201	Thank you for the comprehensive answer. I think it would be a good idea not to do that in letters of inquiry, but to show that above all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u202	To do, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u203	Maybe I can make two specific points. One is that we have, of course, had the interrupting debate here about groups in society that we do not achieve properly, because they are not powerful in the Dutch language. Is the cabinet prepared to use communication in other languages, where necessary, to highlight the importance of these corona measures? And two. We actually saw a few weeks ago with Famke Louise and Diederik Gommers at Jinek that it is not enough to achieve real behavior change among young people. And with all due respect to the Prime Minister, I don't think more empathy in the press conference is the solution. You should probably try to reach the young people in other ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u204	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u205	Is that what the Prime Minister's taking with him?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u206	Yes. There are also whole campaigns aimed at young people. Only Mr Jetten will see it from this entire Chamber. Of course, we communicate in all languages. So the whole idea of "we speak Dutch in the Netherlands" doesn't apply right now, unfortunately. We also really need to reach out to people who are not powerful in the Dutch language. They can be refugees and they can be people with a non-Western background who do not have sufficient language skills. Then you can't say: yes, we have a rule here that we speak Dutch? Yes, I do. We are all talking Dutch here, but we must also recognise that this does not apply to everyone, and that means that you must also reach those people. On that point, I had a specific question from Mr Segers on the subject of low-lettered people, which I would have liked to have answered later. Maybe I can include them too, because we also want to get that group as much as possible. That is why we published a simple-language news item at the press conference. This message is then brought to the attention of many channels, including the low-literate target group. Their range is high, by the way. Using Steffie, a website with information explained in a simple way, we ensure that complex information is made understandable. Steffie is used for many more topics. It is part of the entire communication policy of the government and from the beginning Steffie also talks about corona and corona policy. No one in the room is likely to see that regularly, but people who are low-lettered will certainly recognize this. Finally, of course, we have a special role here for the municipalities, who try to reach this target group in particular through their networks in the neighbourhoods where many low-class people live. Of course, we know where this is concentrated in particular. Through these networks, they also do everything in their power to reach those target groups. It is indeed of great importance, both for target groups and for different languages as well as for low literacy. We try to give all the elements a place in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u207	I have Mr Azarkan, Mr Segers and Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u208	Let's talk a little bit about this strategy. In March/April we used the hammer together to flatten it. Then the idea was that we were going to dance, if I understand correctly. I'm present at the briefings and occasionally I look at them as well. We were gonna dance with the virus. Now the strategy is to test as many people as possible and then to investigate where people have been, so source and contact research as soon as possible. Actually, the idea was: we're going to prevent a second wave, because we can't afford it. We're in a second wave. What is the reason why we are in that second wave with the idea that we should prevent, for example, a third wave?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u209	Of course you're taking lessons from that again. Moreover, the President of the Economic and Social Council is of course very pleased that she is now playing such an important role in the Corona approach. Apart from that, that hammer and that dance naturally come from scientific literature from March/April. Haha. Yeah, sorry, I couldn't resist. In March/April it was said: on the one hand you try to flatten the virus and then try to control it, control infections. That's basically a kind of dance with the virus, a dance macabre. These are all very unfortunate images, but let me add to the scientific insights that Mr Azarkan mentions here from March/April: the hammer and the dance. The fact is that if this dance does not work properly and it becomes so big that it cannot be done with regional measures, which mainly have that dance element in it, you have to use the hammer. The sum of measures and behaviour has simply resulted in too many infections. That number is now so high that you can't manage with a regional approach. Then you have to take very tough measures nationally and that is this partial lockdown.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u210	But it's not just about behavior and action. What we are missing here crucially, regardless of communication, is the action of the government. It's about testing. You can't say on 20 May, as the Envoy Feike Sijbesma said at Nieuwsuur I was behind him, because after that I was going from the most restrictive test policy to the most generous in the world. Any Dutchman who wants to be tested, said Minister Hugo de Jonge, can be tested. Then you can't say: the test policy or the number of tests has caught up with us? Then it's just not well done, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u211	You work on the basis of estimates and assumptions. They were very high. At that time there were many who said: you assume a much too high number of tests to take away. But in reality it turned out to be higher. Of course, it is also one of the problems when you are dealing with such a phenomenon as this virus, that such estimates are difficult. There was already a huge space in it, actually a kind of landing, compared to what it should eventually be. But reality turned out to be higher. Then what you have to do is add all the sails to run after the number as soon as possible. We've been working on that leg for the last few weeks. That's what we're gonna do. I will not mention all the figures here; perhaps Hugo de Jonge can go into that a little further. But if you look at the next few weeks, months, you'll see a huge increase in test capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u212	But does the Prime Minister then share the conclusion that if that testing is not qualitatively good enough, especially in terms of speed, you can't expect people to be able to easily follow all the rules, and that you're actually losing sight of it, so that dancing doesn't make sense anymore because those numbers start to rise? Actually, we can see that from that moment on, somewhere in August, things are going wrong. Then the source and contact research is no longer done, because it's too much because you don't test fast enough, unlike for example Germany, where it goes much faster and in larger numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u213	Well, the source and contact investigation has continued, just not the way you want it. You want the G.D.D.s to be able to do that all by themselves. Now we ask people to check their contacts themselves on the basis of instructions. That's not how you want it, but it's not like there was no source and contact investigation. It is now such a high number that it is also difficult in a number of regions to deal with people with vulnerable health... Because of course the GGD was concerned with this: people in the risk categories continued to do so themselves. But with these huge numbers, that is also difficult. But it's not like there was no source and contact investigation. That happened differently, not the way you want it, but it did happen. When testing it is true that a decent group of people have to wait for the test and a little longer than you want, must wait for the results. That leg's getting pulled out now. This doesn't lose sight of the virus, but the visibility is getting more foggy. You have less sharp vision of the virus than when there is a fully functioning test device. But if those numbers are so much higher than estimated, then of course you haven't squeezed them in a few weeks, where you know the whole world is running behind those tests, that capacity, and that ultimately there are limited deliveries of them. You have to change all that very quickly. We did. So that leads to a little less visibility, but I don't think you can say that the government has caused the numbers to increase. That's not because of it either. The fact that numbers are increasing also has other causes. It has also simply as a cause that the combination of measures, enforcement and behavior in the sum of... I agree with Klaver that there is no point pointing fingers or blaming people, but that sum, our collective, did not do it well enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u214	Finally, during the debates on corona, behavioral experts have often been referred to. I have tabled a motion on this matter myself. Because it looks like it's hitting us. If a measure is invented, it is found that it is not sufficiently complied with. Either it is said that 70% or 80% of young people or older people do so. But how is that assessed by all those good-looking heads within such an OMT and perhaps also within the cabinet? And what does that mean for the follow-up approach to the implementation of these measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u215	Within the RIVM we have the behavioral unit of RIVM, but of course we also have a lot of good people within the government who know a lot about behavioral psychology; in the Netherlands there are many scientists who know a lot about it. But at the end of the day, that's not gonna bring the answer either. Nor is it the case that if you take measures, you can immediately link that measure to behavior. With every measure you take, you also take into account a percentage of non-compliance. That is inevitable. Look at the no longer shaking hands: a very large part of the Netherlands adheres to that. Washing hands and the 1.5 meters are less held. Yesterday, RIVM research showed that 20% of the people who have an infection simply go to work or walk on the street. That is, of course, extremely risky, because at that moment you are a time bomb for the people in your environment, who you can infect. So we really shouldn't do that anymore. So we have all this expertise. But also the sum of all that expertise in such a complex virus does not give you the guarantee that you can say: this is a flawless route to the totally perfect strategy. Today we see that in many countries in Europe the rise is enormous. In Spain and France, that was already the case, but now you can also see the numbers in Germany, England and other countries. This has to do with a very complex set of factors: compliance, measures, enforcement, the effects of August and perhaps holidays. In short, there are all kinds of things to consider.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u216	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the honest self-reflection. He looks back and says: we could have taken firmer measures before, we could have communicated better, with less public discussion between OMT and the cabinet. That's a very honest self-reflection. That's looking back, but if you're looking forward, what would be different from now on? Then you don't just get there with communication. Then you don't just come and talk to more people and ask yourself: how can I explain it even better and sit on the squat so I can reach everyone? If you say that you should have taken firm measures earlier, what does the cabinet do internally in the organization and direction from now on different than in the past few months?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u217	So I'm not saying "honoured," but I'm saying "stronger." That's right, especially in that September package. Agreed. I'm taking lessons from that. So if you look at the road map that is now in place, you can see that all the lessons are incorporated in it as regards the robustness of the measures at the level worryingly, at the level serious, at the level partial lockdown or the level full lockdown. That is all pushed up, because we say: you have to do this more firmly because the non-nalef factor is still higher than you had already estimated, because the combination of measures, behaviour and enforcement proved to have insufficient effect and of course you want to be able to respond to the figures that are emerging as soon as possible. So that's one of the lessons we've learned from it, and that's what you see in the roadmap. That's what it's all about. That is also one of the reasons why I asked Rob Jetten, the author of the motion, a few times to have more time as a cabinet in order to incorporate the lessons into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u218	I'm a little worried when I hear a lot of names coming by from people who are all thinking along and talking along. Of course it is very nice that you have many advisors, but if it is so exciting and the figures are so up, then it also requires decisive and firm measures, perhaps firm measures that should have been taken earlier. In the near future, too, we may also have to suppress our tendency to explain it again and continue to be cautious, and we still need to go ahead a little earlier. What is the guarantee that the structure that the cabinet now has will prevent what could have been better in recent months?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u219	I don't think it's the structure, and I don't think we were too late. I think we took the measures ourselves when we had to take them, but they weren't heavy enough. That lesson's been taken. Nor can I guarantee that there will be no more mistakes in the future. I do not rule out the fact that we are standing here again at some point and I am going to share a few lessons with you, as we did in the summer. This is inevitable in this type of crisis that we are in together. You should be open to that, too, and it's important that I do the same. 'Cause that's just true. If we ourselves find that things should have been different but we do not recognise it, that does not help to support it. Moreover, this also helps us collectively to make better decisions. I don't mean it's in the structure. I also believe that it was not the timing of the measures, but the gravity. The structure is actually quite clear. That's the Outbreak Management Team, which includes all the virological and epidemiological expertise and also all kinds of specific disciplines, including hospitals and ic's. In the end, they come up with a strict advice to us: this is the situation now and on the basis of that situation we recommend this. What we do, then, as you can see in today's package, is that we do not take over everything, but that we achieve the same effect. On some things, for example, education, there was some discussion in the OMT. Then we say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. These are, for example, sport and door policy and a few more things that we have done a little harder than the OMT recommended. So you come to a package that should have that effect on the R.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u220	Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u221	So I'm gonna find out what Mr Segers means. I don't think it's in the question of how we organized it in the cabinet. I don't think that's the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u222	I don't know about that either, because I'm not one of them, but I do notice that the parameters have turned red before. When you look back, you can see that the R, on which they're sent, has been above one for a while. I say that, again, not from the moon, as a kind of know-it-all, because I've been there at certain times in a certain circle and I could have said anything. Yet, learning and looking back on the situation at the time, you can now say that we should have acted sooner. The firm measures that have now been taken could perhaps have been taken earlier. Then what is the guarantee, with the roadmap that we have now, that we are acting sooner than we have done now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u223	But again, I don't think the problem was the timing of action. The problem was the heaviness of action. For when we saw, for example, that the number of infections began to move between 50 and 150, so in the range of worrying, the measures were also taken within the time it took. Except the package wasn't heavy enough. You have to make such a lesson yours immediately. That is why we said on 29 September that we should step up our efforts, with a number of national measures. What we see now is that the number continues to rise rapidly. Of course, that's what you have to do every time and that's what we do every two weeks. We keep looking at the virus in terms of its spread. Then you do not always know exactly the effects of the measures two weeks ago, because there is a considerable delay. Especially for hospitalisations, the delay is much longer than two weeks. But you can have a first impression, and we found this weekend preliminary, Monday discussing and Tuesday speaking in the cabinet, that we could no longer wait. By the way, we already had a first round on Friday's Council of Ministers. We thought we should take action now. There is no one at all who then steps on the brake or slows down in it. That's not where the whole problem is. But in the end, it's the question of what lessons you take with each other. I have these conversations in Europe, of course. I sat at the European Council two weeks ago and my colleagues from Spain and France are also holding hands and will do everything in my power to get it under control. England, now outside the European Union, is also working very hard on this. We also see the numbers in other countries. That is not a purely Dutch phenomenon, although unfortunately we are very high on the wrong list.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u224	Really last time, Mr. Chairman. Again. If, in fact, we lead the wrong lists and are in the wrong states at the bottom or at the top, at least in a place where we should not be, then you cannot say that the measures were good in themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u225	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u226	No, then we should have acted sooner, or...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u227	Heavenly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u228	Heavyter, indeed. And yet we arrived three weeks ago with an hour earlier the restaurant closed, with the last drinking hour that was cancelled. In hindsight, you can say, "If only we'd done a little harder."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u229	Sure. Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u230	What's to stop us from making that mistake again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u231	Of course, there is no guarantee of 100%. We have a lot of experience with each other now about what works and what doesn't. What we now need to achieve with the Roadmap as soon as possible, but that is going to take four weeks or more, is to come back to that first area: less than 50 infections per 100,000 inhabitants, so that the number of infected people per day is below 1,500 and the BCO can also take place again. Eventually, that's where you want to go. I'm not saying you have to reach exactly that number, but you have to have a look at it. That's what we're doing with yesterday's hammer. I agree with Segers that you have to constantly wonder how to draw those lessons from it. We did, and that's what's in this roadmap. Of course, we have incredibly good experts in the Netherlands, because we are not thinking of it ourselves, but we are doing so together with experts. Each time you see together what you can learn from the previous step and what you have to do as a precaution and not taking risks. Rather too early than too late, take a next step, as we did yesterday and two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u232	In my opinion, it is indeed useful to take some time to look back, just to learn for the future. I would just like to zoom in on the role of the region and the relationship between the Empire and the region. The Prime Minister said that was also a learning process. Has there been a joint reflection on this, in the vein of "Hey, what went well and not well and can we in the future return to a regional approach that is well-matched with the Empire?"
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u233	Yeah, I think so. What you see only now in the Roadmap is that the list of measures you are taking at a certain stage in the country has become longer. One step at a time in the Roadmap shows that the list of measures to be taken at least by region, and thus the menu of choice, is getting smaller. The mayors themselves have said that there must be more predictability in this. And yet, as everyone says, there has to be some degree of customization to see how it works in a particular region. For example, the closing time of the catering industry at the level of concern may be a national measure for such a region on the last lap, but it is up to the region itself, much more emphatically than in the previous roadmap, to say: yes, perhaps we should just close at 10 p.m. I say this as an example and there are more such elements in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u234	But looking back, at least from the outside, it seemed as if the region expected much from the Empire and the Empire also looked at the region, when at the very beginning certain signal values were again exceeded. How does the Prime Minister view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u235	That's true. It has not led to delays, but it has led to complexity. During the week of the General Reviews, when I spoke to you here, you did not see Hugo de Jonge sitting here for a very long time, because he was then working to ensure that we were able to present the whole package that was then necessary for the level of concern. That has called for a great deal of consultation. I am not blaming anyone for that, because it was very exciting for everyone to shape that, both for the regional presidents and for the cabinet. That went much faster the following week for the eight regions which then went to the level of concern. We have great mayors and mayors in the Netherlands who are presidents of a security region and are part of the Security Council. That reflects on that regularly. Last Monday, and also last Monday, there is really a lot of talk about this. What can you learn from that? Because collectively this Security Council, chaired by Hubert Bruls and now temporarily by Henri Lenferink van Leiden from the security region of Hollands Midden, of course jointly with the cabinet, stands for, as one man, one woman making sure that we fight that virus. You have to acknowledge that from all those responsibilities that first time was equally complex in that week of the General Reviews. It worked out in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u236	Finally, that regions can also take additional measures on what is decided by the Empire. At least I would find that a welcome conclusion from this review.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u237	I'd like to go through that question with Hugo de Jonge. He's gonna write it down and he'll be right back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u238	I really have a short question and do not want to go into all the specific measures and say today what I agree or disagree with, because we are at a stage where we need everything. Yet tonight I saw news about women's football. It's said it wouldn't be paid football.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u239	I didn't see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u240	I really want to ask a question. It is said that it would not be paid football and that it cannot go on as a result. I think that's weird. Our Orange Lionesses are European champions, and I think it is a totally wrong signal to all those girls who play football in the Netherlands, which is increasingly saying that women's football is not covered by paid football. I understand very well that football cannot go on, but if the men's league can go on, so can women's football.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u241	Again, I missed that message, but the Minister of Sports is here. She'll be right back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u242	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u243	Otherwise, I'm gonna have to improvise here. I didn't see the whole message.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u244	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u245	That was because I was preparing all your questions. I wanted to do that completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u246	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u247	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the second of the three blocks, which relates to the economy. I can give you the long or the short answer. I think I'll help everyone by starting with a quick answer. That's gonna make me move it a little bit forward, I'm telling you the truth. Firstly, this scenario has been taken into account in the design of the entire aid and recovery package. We all took that. So this is going to cost a lot of extra money. That's not fine, but it has to be. The money's here. Where additional measures are now leading to increased turnover losses that may be in the hospitality, culture or event sector, this is taken up within the package. That goes for the NOW and the TVL. The greater the turnover loss, the more financial support. And that is on top of the general support measures, such as the almost 500 million extra that already existed for the cultural sector. No measures have been taken. The TVL has been raised to €90,000 per three months and the rate of reimbursement of the NOW has remained below the line. 80% of wage costs are reimbursed instead of 90%, but 10% of wages may be reduced and this should not be done. That is not the answer. It's complicated, and we're working really hard on it. I hear the concerns in the Chamber and in society. Today I have had a lot of worries and I understand them. People say, "Okay, that's good, that package breathes, but what else should happen?" That is why it has been decided today that the three ministers working in particular on the financial and economic side of the crisis, namely the Finance Ministers, Economic Affairs and Social Affairs, Hoekstra, Wiebes and Koolmees, the troika, are now very quickly going to carry out an analysis of all the more stringent measures, in order to identify additional problems that cannot be addressed within the support packages. They intend to send a letter on this matter by 26 October at the latest, focusing on the sectors which have been appointed here this evening and which are particularly affected. If that analysis shows that adjustment or targeted additional support is needed, then we will look very seriously at it, as we have done in the past and decided in the past. We do this with many different companies and sectors, both administrative and administrative. They're all getting involved. And we are in very close contact with the social partners. These conversations and all signals are important to keep the finger on the wrist and see what is needed. In other words, a brief summary. The support packs are breathing. By 26 October at the latest, an in-depth analysis of what yesterday's measures mean in addition to those aid packages. Is that necessary and what is needed? That's the brief summary. I have a number of specific questions: about a time-out, about the banks, but I will come back to that separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u248	Maybe it's good to finish this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u249	Yeah, I can do that. There was a question from the CDA about the time-out arrangement. We are working on a so-called time-out arrangement. The cabinet is working on it with stakeholders, under the coordination of Economic Affairs. The Chamber will be informed of this shortly. What has already been achieved is new services through the Chamber of Commerce, bankruptcy prevention by coaching the Entrepreneur Soundboard. This will be extended with help and tools for reaching agreements, so that entrepreneurs will be able to make better use of the Private Agreement Act. It shall enter into force on 6 October. These help and tools are all available from January onwards. It is more complicated to come up with solutions to the ongoing obligations with public and private parties. Alternatives are being considered with relevant stakeholders. That's not easy. I can't give you a guarantee yet, or I can. Those conversations are going on. It is primarily up to private parties to come up with solutions, but entrepreneurs receive targeted help to avoid bankruptcy as much as possible and facilitate a start-up. Mr. Chairman. Then there was the question of the VVD about the banks. When granting the general payment break, it was not possible for banks to make an individual assessment of the company's repayment capacity. European rules allow such a payment break only temporarily, but banks now have a better understanding of the situation of individual customers. They also have more room to look together with a company for an appropriate solution. So that does not mean that banks should not postpone now. It only means that they have to look at whether it is possible and sensible per customer. The banks also indicate that problems are always discussed with customers. In economics, I have another question about the catering industry. The cabinet follows the OMT opinion. The OMT says: See if there is a distinction between cafes, cafes and drinking establishments and independent restaurants; investigate that. This is an important point, also for the discussions that the cabinet has been having with the catering industry and with SMEs in the Netherlands for several weeks. We are now examining with them whether this distinction can be made between the different types of catering establishments. I do not want to give the hope that this will mean something for the package in the next four weeks, because at the moment we just need the volume to reduce the number of contacts. But it can really bring some relief for the slightly longer term. I hope so. Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions about the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u250	I'll take a look around. I see Mr Asscher, Mrs Van Brenn, Mr Dijkhoff and Mr Klaver. I call Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u251	It is very good that we are now working quickly on additional support measures, because you can see that the package that was there is not sufficiently focused on the additional sectors that are now in trouble. For example, in the sports sector, there are often very few people employed, but they pay the fixed costs from the canteen revenues. Those clubs are just falling over now that these measures come into force. We should not want to do that with each other, especially since the measures will take much longer than four weeks, according to Van Dissel's presentation. You did not mention those sectors, so my question is to look specifically at sport, the event sector, the cultural sector and the catering industry, and to come up with creative additional measures, on top of the package that is already in place. The second. I asked Hoekstra earlier about the third aid package. Be clear already and do not back that support in January. This is still above the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u252	I can't say anything about that last one so quickly. On the first question I can say yes, where it is first the or-question. I also agree with Asscher that there is a great chance that specific problems will arise, especially in the sports sector. On the basis of the analysis, we are going to identify very precisely where the packages do not absorb this extra thump enough and what extra would be needed. This applies to all the sectors he mentions, and perhaps to more sectors, which we are not overlooking at the moment. It is certainly about all the sectors he mentions, because they are all sectors affected by yesterday's measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u253	I understand that the cabinet wants to see exactly where it is needed and in what way, but we can already answer the or-question. I think you've heard the Chamber, from VVD to SP. If you see what is happening now with those companies and institutions, then it is not the question of whether, but how. For that question you get the space until October 26th.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u254	I would like to come back to what the Prime Minister said. He says the Meeting Fixed Charges has gone up. That's true. But the compensation in the salary costs has really been scaled down to 80%. The hospitality is now completely closed, nothing comes in. I wonder if that two weeks is enough time and if that's gonna work. If organisations are raving at the door now, we have just heard that Horeca wants to see a full compensation of salaries. Could there possibly be leniency for that sector that is now being completely closed down?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u255	This whole design is based on the lockdown of March/April, where the hairdressers were also closed, the theatre and culture sector, the entire event sector and also the entire catering industry. The package as it applies from 1 October is, in my opinion, comparable in its dimension to the package before it. The TVL has even been expanded by an increase to 90,000 per three months. Let's do this. Now we're doing the analysis of how far those packages are breathing. Of course, they're gonna cost a lot of extra money, but we've all saved that big apple for thirst in the form of low public debt. Luckily, we can do that. We'll see what the effects of that analysis are. Then it becomes clear whether and where holes fall. Then Asscher says, and I understand that very well: I have already answered that or-question. I want it answered anyway, because that helps you to see exactly where the problems are and how you can solve them creatively.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u256	I understand the increase in the Meeting Fixed Charges. My daughter has a bar. The bust must simply be written off. This applies to a lot of entrepreneurs. But I had also asked a question about Mr Knot's reaction and how the Prime Minister looks at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u257	What was that question again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u258	The point was that Knot says, "Don't stop too fast, but make sure it goes on longer; we need that in terms of economy. The question is, and Mr Asscher also pointed out, whether we will take some time to get everyone back on their feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u259	In any case, none of that is true for the next four weeks. All this applies from January 1st. So it seems to me that in due course we should have a debate on whether the dimensions we have drawn are real. I think it is a good thing that you set up these arrangements step by step, so that companies adapt to the financial and economic situation in the country. Because of this extra lockdown, which is a huge blow to many entrepreneurs and their staff, the people who work there, the employees and therefore jobs in the Netherlands, you first have to determine to what extent it all breathes sufficiently, and then what that means for what is needed extra. But I do not want to burden this with a discussion about what we do with these packages after 1 January. We are now talking about the next four weeks, within the assumption that we will have packages from 1 October that will not be worn out on balance. In fact, the TVL is being expanded a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u260	However, I would like to ask whether the Prime Minister in the letter that is to come, and if necessary he will also give this as an assignment to the other ministers, to reflect on the concerns expressed by Mr Knot that there could be a risk to the entire financial sector, and that it would not be able to pay back to the banks as a whole. 'Cause the loans are running up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u261	Okay. Then we shall do it in such a way that we call this part of the stenogram that, I believe, with Mrs Van Brenk's questions specifically addressing the remark that Knot made yesterday, we will be sending the letter as soon as possible after 26 October.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u262	Thank you for the commitment. When you hear it, with a whole analysis of all those sectors, whether there's anything additional and what, and a time-out scheme that's complicated, I get that 12 days before such a letter is fast, especially for us doing it. But it's not a new problem. At EZK, they've been thinking about this. In the spring, we analyzed everything. I imagine that part of what you read in a letter in 12 days' time is already finished. For a catering entrepreneur, the restaurant is still running. In two hours, or less, it closes. You'll spend a few more days cleaning up, postponing and decorating your pick-up or delivery meals, if you're gonna do that. But sometime this weekend, there's gonna be some serious conversations. A time-out scheme is complicated, but a question about whether or not to raise the TVL is not so. That's not rock science. That can make the difference in whether you decide to let your employees go on Monday, close the tent and tell your landlord: it's either leave me without rent, or I go to court to apply for bankruptcy. For them twelve days without income is a lot, and every day that debt grows. I understand the analysis. But if there are things that are ready, which have already been thought about and which you feel are sensible, I would like to ask: hit them and communicate them. Then people can take that into consideration. This spring it was: if we can do it with a package, we buffalo through it. And now there are many that have more painful choices ahead of them. Then it's no longer about: we'll buffalo ourselves through it and help the package. The point is: with extra support I can try it and otherwise I have to make a very painful decision now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u263	I'll get back to you in second term or I'll be able to. I'd like to double-check that. It is listening to whether this can be done more quickly, or whether we are still doing so in October, but rather where it can be done earlier, that is also a variant. The TVL, by the way, breathes all the way. This aid increases as the turnover drop is greater, and the ceiling has been raised to €90,000 per three months. So that is settled in itself, but we also need to look at whether there is a need for more. What we need to look at in particular is what holes fall when you see this. I'll take a break and consider whether we can do it faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u264	The Prime Minister has not specifically addressed the sectors, but I assume that culture is also appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u265	I mentioned it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u266	Sorry, I didn't hear that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u267	At least I would have mentioned it at least, and Mr Asscher mentioned it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u268	I want to do one supplement. We have, so far, looked mainly at the subsidised culture in the aid packages. There are also a lot of free-standing independent producers who are getting into trouble, especially now. I would really like to ask whether the cabinet would also like to look at this group, including all those people behind the scenes and how more support could be provided for them. Perhaps this can at least be taken into account in the analysis of the cultural sector. I am afraid that the cultural sector will not recover the blow it is getting at the moment, and that it will really lose its gems.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u269	In itself, the commercial companies also participate in NOW, possibly TVL and certainly Tozo when it comes to the self-employed within that sector. I will ask you to pay particular attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u270	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u271	There are a few other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u272	Mr Wilders had another question about the catering industry, but I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u273	I'm done with that. Not with the catering industry, that's horrible enough, but with my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u274	The Prime Minister has indeed dealt with the possibility of additional funds for the catering industry, but what he has not discussed is what my group and some other groups have said about the closure of the catering industry. Now it's true that it turns out that the OMT...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u275	That's what I've been working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u276	To closing down the restaurants?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u277	The OMT about the restaurants. That's what I've been working on. But I can do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u278	If you'd like to do that again...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u279	Of course. The OMT didn't say do the restaurants differently. The OMT has said: see if you can distinguish between cafes, cafes, drinks and independent restaurants, and examine whether those independent restaurants, which do not have a primary additional function of drinking, can remain open under strict conditions. I have said that this is an important point for our discussions now. The OMT doesn't say, "Do it now." But we are now having these talks with the catering industry and the SME Netherlands. We're investigating whether you can make that distinction. However, I said that I do not see this having any immediate effect in the next four weeks, because we have to do it the way we do it now throughout the sum total of measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u280	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u281	Then I will continue with Mr Wilders, on the question of the origin of people. By the way, the professor concerned is not Gribus, but Girbes. I have no reason to doubt his observations and those of other Amsterdam ic-doctors. What I do want to do is to stress that hospitals provide adequate and adequate care for all patients, regardless of origin or background. I don't think it's gonna help in the Netherlands if we go to see if your name is Henk, Ingrid, Fatima or Mohammed before you get to the ic. I don't think that's a good idea. So I'm just gonna leave Mr Wilders' tweet on his plate. Of course, you can still have an intellectual debate based on the question of why there is an over-representation. We certainly don't. We simply cannot say it, also because in hospitals, as a rule, there is no record of the ethnic background of patients. But if there is an overrepresentation of people with an ethnic background, people with a lower income, or people with a social position that is not perfect, then it is very difficult to name what that is. Some factors have been mentioned in the debate which are quite conceivable, but which are more anecdotal than I can scientifically justify. However, it is quite conceivable that blotting risks are higher among people with lower incomes. That may have to do with the type of jobs they have. Abattoirs have already been mentioned. People who work in occupations where they work intensively with groups of people, in factories or in other places have already been mentioned. The final report of the Working Group on Social Impact, led by Femke Halsema, the Mayor of Amsterdam, also shows that existing vulnerable groups are hit hardest and that vulnerabilities pile up among people and neighbourhoods. That is all information that suggests that it might be conceivable that people with lower incomes are at greater risk of getting the virus. But for the link to ethnicity, I can't find any evidence other than Professor Girbes' observations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u282	For starters, I apologize to the professor. I did call him "Gribus" all day, but the good man's name is of course Girbes. If he's listening, I don't even know if he's happy with me at all. I want to tell him I should have said the name better. I have of course mentioned examples, from Poelenburg to mosques and Moroccan weddings in Roosendaal or Tilburg without being fined. In any case, it also has to do with non-compliance with the rules. I think that in my term I gave twenty examples of non-Western immigrants who themselves indicated that they were actually ignorant of those rules. I'm not saying that's the only reason. I'll say that's a reason. Then the Prime Minister will all mention reasons, except for that reason. It is often said that these rules are simply ignored. If Erdogan in Turkey says so, they will, but if Prime Minister Rutte says so, they won't. They're celebrating a wedding, but they don't get fined. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that it really does matter that it is also a reason that they simply ignore our rules, because they simply do not want to comply with them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u283	He comes with this on the basis of one Turk in Zaanstad who said: I do listen to Erdogan and not Rutte. That's very weak, isn't it? Then I have a stronger argument with my more anecdotal suspicion that low-income people are at high risk of infection. This is scientifically very weakly substantiated by Mr Wilders. Professor Girbes is completely gone now, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u284	Get serious about my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u285	I'm gonna kill him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u286	Yeah, "I'm gonna kill him." You've got to be serious...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u287	I was speaking for a moment, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u288	You can be kidding. You must give a serious answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u289	I thought I was still working on the answer. Well, I guess I'm just gonna keep going. The point here is this. There are stories of people who say, "Oh, man, I'm gonna put those rules on my boot, and I'm gonna organize this, that, sister or something on a much larger scale." By definition, that's wrong. Each individual example of this is wrong. But these examples are unfortunately quite large-scale in the Netherlands. That's one of the reasons it's not going well. There was a large group of students in the park in Leiden, named after the mayor from the time of the Leids Absente. What's his name again? After the closing time, the mayor finally had to take it out. At least it had to maintain and tell you that you shouldn't be there with such a large group. We saw all kinds of stories from the weekend. In a tunnel that is not used, a big party was prepared, in which no one intended to stick to the 1.5 meters. There's the story from Limburg of someone who falls ten meters. That was a terrible accident, but apparently it was preparing a festivity in which the 1.5 meters became very daunting. None of these were examples of immigrants. So there are a lot of examples where, unfortunately, people do not follow the rules. The fact that all these stories are now coming out means that this enforcement is now increasing happily. That's what I'm supposed to do. Each example is too many. Wilders comes up with ten examples of non-Western immigrants, or people with a non-Western background. Probably they are Dutch already and therefore not registered as such. There may well be, but I can put so many examples aside. What can you deduce from that that the non-Western immigrants, that part of our society, are responsible for this? I think people with lower incomes are at greater risk. I suppose that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u290	They are in the majority in intensive care in the big cities, in Amsterdam, in Rotterdam, in The Hague, in Utrecht, in Dordrecht, in Gouda. There are people of non-Western descent in intensive care. I don't have one funny joke from you. I've got ten, I've mentioned twenty examples. I have mentioned examples of general practitioners. I have mentioned examples of professors. I have mentioned examples from the newspaper. That's not just anything. There's a clear correlation. People say, "I don't care about our rules." This does not say one Turk in Poelenburg in Zaandam, but this is happening throughout the Netherlands. You can't look away from the correlation that exists. It is cheap for the Prime Minister to appeal to about everyone in the Netherlands who does not follow the rules. If they're young people, students, restaurants or football supporters, the PM says "shut up" or something like that. Then he's pretty big. He dares to take on the soccer supporters and even call them names. But when it comes to those non-Western immigrants, who are in excess of intensive care, I hope those people get better quickly; do not misunderstand me and make sure that the regular care of ordinary Dutch people is delayed, there is no big mouth at once, such as towards the football supporters. But then it's like, "Oh, it's the low status. They have work that pays badly and they may have a house with too much draft." Be as strong for those non-Western immigrants as you are for the football supporters!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u291	I have already said that I agree with Mr Klaver that there is no point in blaming certain groups. When I spoke a bit bluntly about football supporters, I also said later that I think that also football supporters should follow the rules, but that I should not have said so. It is true that everyone in the Netherlands who says "I find reason in anything not to abide by the rules of conduct, like the 1.5 meter" makes a mistake and takes a risk for all of us. That is something we can call it in general terms. The whole sum of measures, behavior and enforcement is insufficient, causing the numbers to rise too quickly and we need this partial lockdown. The examples mentioned by Mr Wilders, such as weddings and other things where the numbers were too high and people said that they do not respect the rules, are all wrong. But he's drawing a conclusion. He says that this is mainly a problem of what he calls "allochtones" or "non-Western Dutch." By the way, they're probably all people with a Dutch passport. Probably the third or fourth generation are Turks or Moroccans who have long lived in the Netherlands. I say that I cannot take it from the figures to that extent. I suspect the risk of infection is greater for people with lower incomes. This is because of the type of jobs they have, where they work in larger groups. There is absolutely a reason to accept that. I do not understand what is being solved by saying, on the basis of ten examples from Mr Wilders, that Dutch people with an original Moroccan or Turkish background are overrepresented, which we do not even know for sure. What does this add to this debate? Should we keep them away from intensive care? Can't they go on? Then what's his conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u292	"What's not even certain." That's what a goddamn professor says. Doesn't say Geert Wilders. Do not question what Mr Girbes is saying. He is head of the ic of an academic hospital in Amsterdam. He called his colleagues in four or five other places. It's the facts, Mr. Prime Minister. It's the facts! I want you to acknowledge the facts. Step one: acknowledge it. Step two: if you acknowledge it, look for causes. Look not only at their homes or jobs, but also at their behavior. I have given you examples that it also has to do with our rules. Speak to them, just as you have the nerve to appeal to soccer supporters. Maintain aim. On October 2, 180 people were celebrating against the rules in a large Moroccan wedding and they were not punished. It's all been in the papers. It's a great shame they weren't punished. Make sure they're punished. These are very concrete things: name it, acknowledge it, get on with it, make sure you address them and pay them if they make a mistake. That's not too much to ask, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u293	Any example that Wilders can mention here, in which people have not followed the rules, with or without a classical Dutch or non-Western background, I find wrong. I appeal to them on their responsibility to ensure that we all abide by the rules. Our collective behaviour is the only way to combat this epidemiological crisis. That's the only way. There's no other way. We can't negotiate with the virus. We can deliberate about it endlessly, but in the end, the only way is our collective behavior. Measures, enforcement and communication can all contribute to collective behaviour. So I think that any proven example that Mr Wilders can give is wrong. I'm gonna go through Wilders and talk to these people about it. He's just doing something else. He says, "One. Mr Girbes in Amsterdam says that it seems that there are many people with an ethnic or non-Western background. Two. I myself have ten examples from the newspaper of people with a non-Western background. So the conclusion is that at the moment the Dutch are probably all Dutch, because they probably already have a Dutch passport. "Keep other Dutch away from intensive care." Then my question is: how can he draw that conclusion? But more importantly, what else is the relevance of that conclusion, other than that I also address those people, regardless of their origins, from all Wilders' example, on their behavior? He's right about that. Of course I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u294	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u295	Finally, Madam President. You must appeal to the non-Western immigrants, because they are now in majority on the ICIs. You must appeal to them, just as you appeal to the football supporters, and say, "Guys," and that is, of course, not about the people lying on the ice, but about the non-Western immigrants who are overrepresented "your behaviour is unacceptable." You created the blueprint for this situation yourself, Mr. Prime Minister. You've broken off the care. Under your ten-year reign, 750,000 non-Western immigrants entered the Netherlands. You, together with Mr Asscher, have ensured that there is no integration policy in the Netherlands. If you don't follow the rules, you can just stay. When you go to a Moroccan wedding with 180 men, you just don't get fined. They're getting away with it. I say to you: stand up for the common Dutchman, who doesn't get it for nothing. It is being pushed away in terms of concern, because the non-Western immigrants do not follow the rules. Stand up for that and be a man for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u296	This isn't...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u297	Now it's my turn! Be a guy for once and take on not only the supporters who are misbehaving, but also those non-Western immigrants. Those are the facts. You're running away from it. And that's cowardly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u298	How low can you go? Let's talk about the health records first. During this cabinet period, healthcare expenditure is increasing net by 13 From 62 billion to 75 billion. So why are we cutting back on care? That's bullshit. Two. Again. There is now one professor in Amsterdam, who says: I find that people with a non-Western background are often lying on the ic in Amsterdam. What does Wilders do? He says: that's a national image. Secondly, Wilders says: "I get ten examples from the newspaper showing that people with..." Ssst! Wait a minute. Shut up for a second! "...a non-Western background appears to be overrepresented..."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u299	Excuse me for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u300	..."in a number of incidents."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u301	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u302	And what does Wilders do? He says: 'One and one is two, so all these people'. He is not just talking about the people on the ic in Amsterdam; by Mr Wilders it has suddenly become a national image 'his people, in over-representation non-westerns, who have not all complied with the rules'. You can't draw that conclusion. Every example he can give me is non-western, western, young or old; I don't care about people who don't follow the rules, I think it's wrong. I'll be happy to talk to those people. There is no point in sitting here all night pointing fingers to who is to blame for the rising figures. But of course, it doesn't help when people do that. He's right about that. But don't make this uncomfortable link. That's not fair to those people. Okay, well, that brings me to a few more questions. I had another question here about foreign travel. A lot has been discussed with Cora van Nieuwenhuizen, the Minister for Infrastructure and Water Management. Last summer, it called on various travel organisations and airlines to more actively inform their passengers about the Ministry's travel advice. In addition, the call meant: traveling to risk areas does not promote and changing the offer if an area turns orange. The Minister talks with the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs with many parties in the travel and transport sector to agree not to promote travel to orange areas and to consistently refer to travel advice from Foreign Affairs. For example, a call will be scheduled with Airlines for Europe and with a carrier like FlixBus. It is of course not only by air, but also by road. It may also be the case that people go by car to those areas. The Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State has already agreed with the Dutch Railways and the International Department of the NS on current and future ticket sales for international train connections. NS International does not promote train tickets to areas where orange travel advice applies. In addition, NS International informs travellers extensively about the risks of travelling to areas subject to orange travel advice. Bans on flying, if we humans in absolute conviction, are not effective, because some journeys remain necessary, for example those of medical staff, in connection with family conditions. With flight bans you reach only a part of the travel movements. You don't reach all travel movements by road or rail. Then there is Mr Van der Staaij's question: does the cabinet recognise that good behavior must be rewarded? Yeah, the Cabinet recognizes that. But with the virus, I'm not convinced of that. Unfortunately, at the stage we are in, we are forced to take more general measures for a few weeks, four weeks. That doesn't make it possible to reward you now. But the perspective is that at a substantially lower percentage of infections we can offer more space again, on our way to a final situation where we can go back to the old normal with a vaccine or a working medicine.................................................................................................. Then there was another question about marriages. For clarity, the Roadmap also says the following. At the wedding ceremony, a maximum of 30 people are allowed now if they keep a distance of five feet. For the scenario lockdown we also assume 30 attendees at the wedding ceremony. But at the party, both now and at a further lockdown, that's not possible. There's the maximum of four, so that's gonna be a very small party. But at the wedding ceremony, there may be 30, if five feet. We are going to look again at the public version because Mr Van der Staaij seems to have seen an inconsistency in it. He always reads very accurately, so when he reads that, he probably does. We're gonna take care of it. There was another question about prostitution in the one-and-a-half-metre society. For contact professions, the OMT did not advise to close them. This includes prostitution. Finally, the question of education. It's true that there's a discussion about that in the OMT. That's right. We believe it is very important that education should remain open to all children and young people in the Netherlands, for their cognitive and social development. We didn't do that lightly. The health of pupils, teachers and school leaders is paramount and the advice of the RIVM continues to lead. We have taken a whole series of measures and they must be followed and followed. Students in secondary education and all teachers keep their distance and stay at home happy complaints. Teaching staff shall be given priority in testing. In secondary school, we wear a mouth cap when we're not in class. And we will continue to observe the hygiene measures. The school leader or location manager reports one or more confirmed infections to the GGD if the GGD has not already approached the school itself. As a cabinet, we keep our finger on the wrist. This was discussed at the OMT. That is also one of the reasons why we have put some extra emphasis on other points in the whole approach, for example, different from the OMT, the ban on alcohol after 8 p.m., on the street and in sales. But also the door policy is a heavier tightening than the OMT recommended, because we felt that it was necessary on a few other points, in any case because of the clear communication but also because it leads to an additional pressure on the virus's emergence, whereas we are slightly wider in education than at least a discussion in the OMT could possibly have led to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u303	I am going back, of course, to aviation, because that was our point now. I do not think that the answer to that point is really sufficient. I think we're really past the time of talking right now. We're not in a lockdown again for nothing, but one of the sectors is just kept out of sight. I think that's really wrong. I have several criticisms, but one of the points that is mentioned is that we would not be able to impose a flight ban on aviation because necessary flights are no longer possible. Then I say: well, in March there was a possibility of a flight ban through a ministerial arrangement. At that time, the VWS Minister specifically asked for this. So let us look again at such a ministerial arrangement and see to what extent an exception can be made for necessary flights. There's just 200 flights leaving Schiphol every day and 200 arriving at Schiphol Airport every day. Those really aren't just necessary flights. 400 flights a day, just at Schiphol Airport, that can't just be necessary! A lot of flights aren't. We cannot say here that out of the 400 flights there may be a few necessary, so that all those flights continue, although that is a very high risk. We're gonna make everything up here in the Chamber to try and get that virus underneath. There's a corona law coming up, and we're gonna see if we can put in a mask. Could we not then look at the possibilities that were also possible in March at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u304	This has been done in a very limited number of cases, in a very limited number of cases. I'm really not for that. I do not think that is effective. Besides, that's not gonna get you anywhere. You're not gonna hit all the road trips yet. It is a risk in terms of necessary journeys to take place, e.g. travel by medical staff or travel due to family conditions. In conjunction with all the measures currently being taken with the travel industry to ensure that every effort is made to discourage travel for fun, I think this is a balanced approach. He's never perfect. He's never completely conclusive. But if you want to make this final along the road proposed here by Mrs Van Esch, my concern is that you really take risks again and get side effects that you don't want. It is also unfair to the people who want to fly instead of taking the car or bus. It's not gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u305	I'm gonna keep going. 7% of covid contamination in recent months came from abroad. I'm not saying we shouldn't be doing anything about traveling by car or bus, but I'm zooming in on the plane right now. 7% of destinations come from abroad. A large part of that comes from flights. We cannot say: on an airplane you do not have to keep a distance of 1.5 meters, airlines are going to think for themselves whether they are entering mouth caps and at Schiphol Airport the catering industry can stay open. You really can't explain that to the Netherlands. You shut down the catering business, you shut down the event business. People are taken away from their business, and then you say to aviation: go on, 400 flights a day, just go on with it. That's inexplicable. There's no way of explaining that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u306	That would be true if we didn't do anything, but I mentioned the whole list of measures we are doing. We ensure that traveling to orange areas is not promoted. We consistently refer to the travel advice of the Foreign Office. The talks with the sector are now continuing. Also on the basis of the earlier call, the Minister of IenW, Ms Van Nieuwenhuizen, and the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, Mona Keijzer, will again discuss all these issues in order to strengthen them further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u307	I told you, the time of talking doesn't seem to work. Four flights a day to Madrid. Nine flights a day to London. They're just gonna keep going. Those flights are just being carried out. We can keep talking, but they're there every day. There are four flights a day to Madrid. Every day they go there. And we say here "we're gonna keep talking," but we're gonna shut down the catering business. We're gonna fly to Madrid four times a day, but we're in a lockdown. We are in a very serious crisis here, in a lockdown, in which we are shutting down entire sectors here. But we fly to Madrid four times a day. Really! And then we say, "We're gonna talk about that." I'm sorry, but I really can't. That's really not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u308	This is a repeat of moves. I refer to the previous answer, because I do not know what else I can add. We just don't agree. I really think that is too heavy a measure. The travel advice is perfectly clear. There's a quarantine obligation in a lot of those countries. Even when you arrive from the Netherlands, you must be quarantined. That London, which stands on orange, is not even so much because of the number of infections there, but also because we were no longer wanted. A lot of orange travel areas are orange because they don't want us anymore, not because we don't want them. So you're gonna have to quarantine yourself. What you do with this is you need to shut down traffic completely. That is also not entirely fair to those who want to fly instead of taking the car or bus. I'm not for that. I am in favour of limiting this very much with Mrs Van Esch. I think that is what all the measures we are taking are leading to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u309	I would like to make a number of other points. I have indicated that I miss the foreign voyages in the roadmap that has now been described. I haven't had an answer to that. I find it really worrying that there is a cup of domestic travel in the corona measures, but not a cup of foreign travel. I think it is quite right that this should be added. That was part of my...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u310	The question is whether we can add this to the roadmap. That's what we're gonna look at. I just don't know. The same advice applies to foreign travel as to domestic travel. So don't go groaning at your holiday address, stay in your cottage, and if you're planning an outing, do it very carefully. Go over there and back and don't go groping.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u311	But my call is to add it. You can say it now, but it's not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u312	That's what we're looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u313	I wanted to make that point. I like it when people look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u314	That's what we're gonna look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u315	Okay. Mr Azarkan and then Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u316	Specifically with regard to religious institutions, in particular mosques. A lot have already indicated themselves to close, because they themselves consider it irresponsible. I'm still looking at the Prime Minister. What, apart from the right to freedom of religion, would be the Prime Minister's advice to the mosque authorities?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u317	Well, to do that. I appreciate that very much. That is very important, also an important signal to the churches, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u318	I had another point. What just surprised me in a news item about...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u319	I can't follow those news reports right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u320	No, that's why. But I couldn't follow, even though I did read it. That was about soft drugs in the night and the night. That wouldn't be allowed anymore. Now the conclusion was that it had to be removed, because it was contrary to the policy of tolerance. So for booze, it could just be banned, but not for soft drugs. That sounds like a really weird one to me, because booze is legal. Obviously, that can be banned and something that is forbidden, but only tolerated, could not be banned. Can clarity still be provided in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u321	No, I don't know. We're gonna find out. I'll get back to you in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u322	Okay, thank you. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u323	Yeah, I thought I was gonna be a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u324	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u325	I had also asked a question about the team that this minister is in charge of, and I had suggested that a test capacity minister should also be set up. I had given the reason that it is so much work that needs to be done now, so it is actually all hands on deck. That must be someone with perseverance. I ask that question to the Prime Minister, because he is responsible for the composition, including as a formatter, of this team. Maybe he wants to get into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u326	That is a real question. I am not in favour of the appointment of separate ministers for all aspects. You have to limit that. We now have a team of 25 cabinet members, I believe. It's been quite a drive, I can assure you. I'd be delighted to do that. The test policy is extremely important, but it is not the case that Hugo de Jonge himself has to design that test policy all day long. He sets the course, how he wants it, with the cabinet and then there are fantastic people at the ministry working on it. The people at the Ministry aren't the problem either. What you see in the test policy is that the rise was hugely ahead of the estimates. Then a lot of good people worked very hard on all sides to catch up and get back to that wave. That's where we're close. In the coming period there will be a very large further build-up of the test capacity. I don't think you should put someone full-time on that, some kind of super-dg in the cabinet. Well, that sounds a little like it. I wouldn't be for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u327	You could say that, a kind of super-dg who is indeed in the cabinet. However, as far as I am concerned, this is not a huge political issue in which we are talking about a weighting of fundamental rights and what is limited and what is not. This is about performing a very complicated operation, where you have the source and contact research, purchasing the tests and the GGD it needs to perform. You don't have to get into a situation where the tests are there, but it can't be carried out. You want to put that in one hand. I would like to make an additional argument. We're going back to the election. There'll be a formation. We could choose someone without a party color, who is above that and who also continues to do so in a subsequent cabinet. This is crucial for our entire strategy. I would say: choose someone who is actually working on it full-time right now, and I think that is what is needed, and who can also just take a seat, without political colour, in a next cabinet, really a supertechnocrat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u328	The whole point is, of course, that this is not in keeping with how we have shaped public administration in the Netherlands, where we, as ministers, are responsible for guiding policy on the basis of in-depth advice. You have the whole policy preparation and the policy making. The policy preparation is input that you get from the administration and from others. That leads to policy-making and that is, of course, a task for Hugo de Jonge and for me, for all of us in the cabinet in the areas we are responsible for. Then comes the policy implementation. We're talking policy implementation here. To invest the policy execution at a cabinet post, I think would really be a novel. We have, of course, seen Steven van Eijck before, who, as Commissioner for Youth Policy, was responsible for youth policy outside the cabinet during the third Balkenende cabinet. We have now seen that with the coronagezant Feike Sijbesma. So that's the type. You can say that you sometimes need a booster, an accelerator, to get things implemented, like Feike, which has helped organize in a fantastic way. Still a great deal of gratitude for that. That may be a form, but at some point such a form has been worked out again and it has to fall back into the normal administrative organization, where fantastic people work who, of course, implement that policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u329	Finally, Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u330	Finally. In itself, I can see space there. The Prime Minister says he doesn't like a cabinet post like that. One of those commissioners he was talking about is a special place you create. You don't do that much. That's what you do when the need is really great. We're in a crisis, so if there's a time to do things we don't normally do, it's now. And when we talk about the envoy: I think he's done a very good job, but in the end he helped it out. It was a volunteer function with almost one hand behind his back. What you want is someone who has perseverance, also towards the GGDs, towards all those involved. I'm really afraid it's not gonna work out in time with that test capacity. We must not underestimate that. We must make every effort and also dare to do new things, so we must also create new posts. And I think the Prime Minister's suggestion for a government commissioner is actually a very good one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u331	Well, it wasn't a suggestion. It was a...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u332	Example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u333	I'm not for that in this case. It was an example of how that went in the past and very recently, huh? I remember Hugo the Young telling me at the beginning of April: I'm going to do this. I said, "What a great idea and what a wonderful man, yes, in this case man, you have found for that, Feike Sijbesma, with his network, et cetera." This will result in a huge acceleration in policy-making, but also in contacts with the sectors, including internationally, on which you will be dependent. But at some point, his conclusion, too, was all that work done and it comes down to implementation, implementation, implementation, focus, focus, focus. If you are at that stage, it is extremely important that this happens again in the official organisation, because if you organise all these things outside the normal administrative organisation, you run the risk that the alignment, the circuit, with the other policy areas will not go well. So I get the idea, but I wouldn't be for that right now. But I just heard Hugo de Jonge say that in his term he also goes into that a bit more closely, because he is much better than I know how that is organized within VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u334	I think this has changed enough. Then I'll go to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. But first we have to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u335	Yeah, a lot of cleaning up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u336	...cleaning the speaker chair. I now give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u337	Thank you, Mr President. I think I can sort out the questions: first, all about testing, then a number of questions that remain over the escalation ladder, the roadmap, then some questions under the umbrella of vulnerable people, then about the quarantine and then a few loose questions. First of all, about testing and tracing. You know we're working with a lot of power to make sure we increase the number of tests a day. That works quite well, but it remains that at this moment the waiting time for an appointment and also the waiting time for a result just take too long. That is why we first and foremost put all the energy into scaling up the current PCR test capacity. If you look at what's been tested on a day last week, about 55,000 of them are already very much higher than grab it at the beginning of September. Then it was about 32,000 a day. If you look at what's coming out this week, it'll be 61,000 next week, 68,000. That's how we go up by thousands a week. Of course, there are a lot of bottlenecks in the chain. Because you can see it's about laboratory capacity. We had a very detailed debate on this last time. But you can also see that it's about reduction capacity. The GGDs have indicated in their draft plan how they intend to scale up their capacity to decrease. In addition, they expect to reach at least 60,000 per early November, at least 80,000 per December. Those were the figures that Mr Klaver also mentioned. I would like to point out to Mr Klaver that this is not a maximum, but a minimum of where you want to stand. When it comes to the laboratory capacity, the analytical capacity you want to have ready, as well as the purchasing capacity on the GGD's side, you want to make sure that this can be scaled up as far as possible. The GGDs do so in a number of ways, in any case by accelerating the capacity to decrease in the regular test streets, by extending opening hours, opening new locations, intensifying streets in a location. In addition, they provide a more fine-meshed network. That too was emphasised by the Chamber last time: it is important that you can take away close to home. They also set up a number of XL locations, so you could work with a lot of capacity in one go. At the moment, together with VNO-NCW and a number of large companies, we are exploring how you could speed that up and scale it up in one go. But because that does not lead to concrete numbers at the moment, I am a little cautious about that. In the upcoming plan that I received yesterday and sent along to the Chamber, the GGD itself mentions a total of 100,000 in September. That should also be possible with the laboratory capacity, but there is also a remark, namely that, as part of reaching that 100 000, we have also been counting on pooling in laboratory capacity. Pooling can only be done at a slightly lower positive test ratio. So if there are too many positive results, as at the moment, pooling is actually not a very effective way to bet. That is also a reason to want to reduce the number of infections at the moment. In short, we're pulling the grass to make it grow harder but I don't really know if it can grow much harder. At least I'm not gonna promise that. However, I am going to promise that I will do everything I can to ensure that we continue to increase and strengthen that capacity. Many people have talked about the possibilities of rapid testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u338	I suggest you finish this first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u339	The rapid testing is perhaps a rather different argument. Those were questions from Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u340	That's right, but continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u341	Okay, then that's what we're gonna do. Many people have talked about the possibilities of rapid testing. I think it is good to emphasise that there are a lot of developments. They are very promising and may also lead to a major change in the whole test landscape. What we are doing here is actually all that is possible to speed up so that we can actually do those tests in practice. As soon as anything is clinically validated, we're gonna set up a practice validation. Whatever goes well, we buy in very large numbers. We've been advised by the OMT on its deployment. We also follow the advice of the OMT that says: in the field of rapid testing we need to come up with an implementation plan. I think that was also the question of whether the appeal made by both Mr Heerma and Mr Jetten. Then you can sketch the perspective from when you can actually use that quick test. There are a number of perspectives. You got those antigen tests. This requires a very different reduction capacity than we are currently seeing in the GGD test streets. Because it's true that you can read them quickly, but it takes a lot more human commitment. So basically you should not put it in the test streets so much as it may be as a supplement but not as a basic... but prior to it going to the test street. For example, in health care institutions, not so much for patients, but more for employees, or for example in schools or companies. That's a promising route. After the validation, we will see how we can actually use it in practice. We've already bought large numbers. We've got a lot bigger numbers in order right now. I explained that in the letter. My aim is to make the decision before 1 November on how we intend to use it for the tests we already know at that time. Because that development is going very fast. Secondly, the LAMP test is also an innovative test. This was developed by TNO in our assignment and tried out for the first time at the GGD Amsterdam. For this purpose, it could actually be accelerating in the GGD's test streets. This LAMP test is clinically validated and is currently used in practice in Amsterdam. We're gonna start rolling it out in five other big cities to speed it up. I believe that this could possibly lead to up to 10,000 additional tests in November. So that's also how I want to use that other form of a quick test there. In addition, there is a series of other types of quick tests. We'll bet on all those options, we'll bet on all those horses at the same time. For example, very nice is the breath test. The breath test appears to be quite reliable, especially in the event of a negative result. You can also use these in addition to the test streets of the GGD. So we have already bought a large batch of them. Once it has been approved and validated, we can also use it immediately in the implementation. In short, the basis is PCR test capacity. It must be expanded and increased as far as possible, as firmly and as thoroughly as possible. We are. In addition, in addition, there are numerous quick tests, which you could use in many different situations. You want that to go in a safe and effective way. That requires those practical validations that we are doing at the moment. We create an implementation plan that states what we already have and know, and what we want to use when in which situation. I want to be able to take that decision before 1 November, so that we can get to work immediately with what is already available. I can do all the questions on this point right away, Mr President, if you like. Yeah? Really? You're sure? Okay. Then let's move on. Why do the disabled workers not take priority in the priority street? They should, however, be given priority. So if you have signs that this is not enough or that someone has not got through it, then that is not true. So I'm sure you can send those signals to us outside the broadcast. Then there's the question of steering. Mr Klaver just asked that question, in a different form. Look, I don't think we need more political direction. What is needed, however, is that we really take a number of steps in implementation to further strengthen implementation and also to further strengthen the management of implementation. Because that whole test chain is very chain-dependent................................................................................................................................................... The first thing we do for this is to transform the LCDK. In this spring, the LCDK was partly created and initiated by the field and partly by us, to create much more visibility and coordination on the total of testing. That never existed; there was never central coordination on that test. We're transforming LCDK into a Service Testing right now, just as part of the Department of VWS. This gives it a legal personality and can also give it a mandate that can also give it a power of perseverance. That is exactly what we are doing, not at political level but at official level. So that's what we're decorating right now. In addition, I asked André van der Zande, former Dg of the RIVM, to sit in front of the national coordination structure, in which all the chain parties are involved, so that all those chain dependencies can be organized in a good way. First of all, there is the implementation of everything that has to be done in the field of testing; that is the Service Testing, which is being set up. Secondly, the national coordination structure has been tested under the leadership of André van der Zande. That's what we're doing right now. So I share that there has to be more control, and more tightness in the control on the execution. We are now taking steps to do this. How could you apply the rapid testing of people from the BCO in practice? At some point we think we have opportunities to go to asymptomatic tests again, but that is surrounded by all kinds of comments. At present in large numbers asymptomatic tests would be at the expense of people with complaints, so that is unwise. So you have to wait until you can test them all at sufficient speed. In addition, we would like to put a number of groups that we have already worked with in pilot settings back into testing policy in the long term, and we would like to go back to asymptomatic testing. But that is indeed more sensible when you have a large amount of quick tests available. The first groups I am thinking about are indeed the people who come out of the source and contact research or the people who are told through the app that they have been in contact with someone who is infected. That seems to me to be a promising group, because the percentage of positive test results is quite high. That's the trade-off every time. The point is to use your tests as an instrument in the control of infectious diseases. That's the goal. The goal is not to test as many people as possible; you do so especially in the context of infectious disease control and keeping society open. That's what you want in particular. That's what tests are for. Therefore, asymptomatic testing for that target group, because the finding rate there is high, can be quite promising. The same applies to the people at Schiphol Airport, by the way, to a much lower extent, because we have seen in incoming travellers that the finding rate for the period in which we did this was 1.7%. Now, of course, the prevalence at all in Europe is much higher, so it could also be higher for returning travellers. It could be. But this also applies to very large numbers, so you have to be sure first of all that it is not at the expense of people with complaints, and then you have to be sure that such a quick test will actually find enough infectiouss in that application. The important comment that can be made with asymptomatic testing as such is that if you do not do this in a good way and you do not organize the reduction in a good way, for example, and if you don't know enough about the reliability of testing without any complaints with a certain quick test, the conclusion that connects you to the result is incorrect. When you get all kinds of false negatives, you actually let people enter society contagiously, when they're supposed to be sitting on the couch at home. In short, you will certainly want confirmation by the PCR test at the beginning of these rapid tests. You can do that in different ways, but you'll often want confirmation from the PCR test. I will come back to that in the next letter anyway. I do not know whether we have already made the final decision on the use of rapid tests and whether we can take a moment in time when I dare to say that we are going to test people again without complaints and if so under what conditions. I really hope to have done so before the end of November, and I expect to send the next letter in two weeks, to be honest, so I do not know if we will be far enough. Then the people with the corona app. That is the same thing every time. I think we should always take it down with people who come forward from source and contact research. So I want to keep those two groups together. It was also an express wish of the Chamber when we dealt with the law that one was not favoured over the other. By the way, the OMT does make that suggestion, interestingly enough. But the Chamber had a very strong desire not to do so to keep those people really together, so the people who use the app and the people who come out from source and contact research. Well, Mr. Chairman, I guess I've had most of the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u342	Everything?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u343	Well, I say "most of it." I have another question from Mr Van Haga. That is the question he has often asked about PCR tests and their reliability. A further question about the Ct cut-off value. That is an insane technical story - I can recite it completely and was one of the annexes to last night's letter. I can also refer to the answer you have already had.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u344	I assume that Mr Van Haga has seen this and otherwise he will be able to ask additional questions later. I take it you've dealt with the test questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u345	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u346	I now have Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Segers and Mr Heerma. The first three and then Mr Jetten, Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Haga. Mrs. Marijnissen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u347	I think it's a little special. Where the Prime Minister started with a very self-critical reflection and yet briefly listed three points which he actually thinks went wrong, Minister De Jonge starts testing the point, which is a very important point in the Corona approach, and if I listen to him like that, it is mainly that he himself has the idea that things are going quite well. Maybe I'm wrong, so I'll check with him. Is that right? Or does he himself think, what was kind of appointed by the entire Chamber here, that that test policy is simply failing right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u348	I believe that we have already had that debate and I have also indicated that it is true that at the moment the demand for tests is greater than what can be achieved at the moment, both in terms of laboratory capacity, although it is very rapid, as well as in terms of capacity for reduction. That is indeed not what I would have liked. I shared that with your room last time. We then discussed the question of when you should actually have what capacity ready. I have indicated that we had hoped and sought a higher number of possibilities for reduction per day, a higher number of tests per day, but we have not succeeded in achieving that higher number. That which has been realized corresponds to the prognosis issued by the RIVM. But the demand was higher than that prognosis. We've had that debate with each other. The question was then put to me by Mr Dijkhoff, and I remember what else you could have done. At that time, I indicated that I would have liked to contract the large-scale laboratory capacity that we had planned later, knowing that there would be a number of things that would not be right, knowing that demand would increase. As soon as we saw that demand was rising faster than the supply could handle, we immediately contracted it. That was from mid-August and therefore we now have larger numbers in the laboratory capacity. Are you okay right now? No, you can't possibly say that things are going well right now. I can say that we are working with man and power to increase the test capacity, both in the reduction and laboratory capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u349	The Minister reiterates what was said about it in the previous debate. I know, because I was there too. It's starting to get really annoying. I notice that fewer and fewer people, including myself, still understand when we hear a different reason every time we don't succeed. For a long time, the G.D.D.s wouldn't be able to handle it. Then the G.D.D.'s were able to handle it, and then it turned out there wasn't enough lab capacity. And last week, there was more lab capacity than the GGDs could handle. That's when the GGDs turned out to be out of order to handle it. Does the Minister understand that the whole of the Netherlands is now holding hands because everyone is affected by this? We're right where we are now, with that new so-called partial lockdown. All those entrepreneurs who have people at home who can't be tested, school classes sent home, the care that gets stuck, people who get a notification from the app but can't be tested because they have no or no complaints yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u350	No, but that's the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u351	Does the Minister understand that it is so slowly crazy that we ask for this every week, every month? We hear a lot of words, lots of promises, but each time the same conclusion comes up, namely: it is not as it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u352	Yes. In the event of a crisis of this magnitude, you will encounter new bottlenecks in the implementation process. But we are really far beyond the debate that took place a few weeks ago, namely in a number of tests this week of over 60,000. I had already indicated at that time that we were aiming for more than 50,000 in early October. That's what happened. Now more than 60,000 and I hope at the end of October 70,000. And so we continue. For example, we are building up more and more laboratory capacity, more and more capacity to decrease. And in addition, we work with man and power on all those vistas that have been outlined with regard to the deployment of rapid tests. And is it good enough right now? No, not at all, because the lead time of testing is far too long. The number of infections is far too high, so that the source and contact research can't keep up at all. And so things aren't going well enough. What we need to do is to reduce the number of infections very strongly. That's one. Two is that we need to increase the test capacity further together. And what we do, of course, is to increase the BCO capacity further with each other. In short, I sincerely believe that we are doing the things we have to do to get it right. And yeah, right now we're not where we need to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u353	The fact that there is hard work is obvious, especially by the people at the GGDs and in the labs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u354	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u355	I would say: let them also qualify for the bonus, because I think they deserve it. But what's so frustrating is that promises are made every time and that it's stuck in practice. While we should be at 50,000 now, we read that 40,000 are being done. My only question to the Minister is: when will it be in order? When can people with complaints, as well as those who come out of the source and contact research, people who get a notification from the app be tested? When's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u356	I'll tell you what we can do. I also said in the previous debate that we could take over 50,000 tests a day at the beginning of October. That's what it turned out to be. In early October, the first week of October, from 5 to 12 October, we conducted an average of 55,000 tests a day, of which 40,000 were carried out by the GGDs. This week, I'm counting on us to get to over 60,000 a day, including 48,000 by the G.D.D. Next week I'm counting on 68,000 a day, of which 54,000 by the G.D.D. In short, we are working step by step on the expansion of test capacity. What I cannot control, of course, is the development of demand. That is why I cannot say when the weather will run within 2x24 hours, because that depends very much on the extent to which demand develops. This demand did not develop according to the forecast; demand has gone much faster. If people see more urgency on television and in the coverage and are more concerned, then compliance with "let's test you if you have complaints" goes up. Maybe if you don't have any complaints yet. That means the demand is just rising. So, yeah, I can live up to what we've called numbers. That's what turned out to be the case. But I can't control the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u357	Good. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u358	I really need to finish my sentence, Mr. Chairman. In addition, there is the question of when you could test without complaints. When would that be possible? The current policy is that you get tested if you have complaints and that remains the policy for the time being. In the future, especially with the use of more rapid tests, a number of asymptomatic groups could possibly be connected. I have just said that there is an opportunity for this. Not generic, but with the group you know the finding rate is high. In another letter I would like to outline when I think we can come to that moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u359	I would like to continue on this point. The Minister says that he does not want to use the rapid tests generically, but that it could work further for certain groups. In my term, I have presented a scenario that has been outlined to me today by people I find authoritative. I'd like to put them in touch with the Ministry. They say: if you do do that generically, then there is a model in which the virus is reduced very quickly and in which the reward is enormous. Then you can go to a football game, then you can go to the theatre and then you can go to church. That's a scenario that's very hopeful. Is that a scenario that is also taken into account in the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u360	In conclusion, I will bow to you a little bit, but I will start with a few comments. You can only say that when you know what to expect from the outcome of a test. The reliability of antigen tests is fine if you have complaints, but not so high in people without complaints. If the reliability of a test is not so high in people without complaints and you say that anyone with a negative result can enter the stadium, then everyone will sit on top of each other again and you may be busy organizing a huge spreading event. As long as we can't know for sure, it's irresponsible to take such a step. It is certainly not irresponsible to dream about it. I also hope that with the use of these rapid tests we will be able to do enough safely and effectively to combat infectious diseases, because that is the first objective, of course, but also, in fact, to get this society back on track as much as possible. I think you should hear the questions put by Mr Jetten and Mr Heerma. I agree with that on my own, but it has to be step by step and the moment you know it's safe. That's why I did a few things. One. I asked the OMT for advice. You could see that. They outline the benefits, but also the comments. They say that you really need to know the reliability and test it, in addition to the clinical setting, also in the practical setting. Do that now and then come to an implementation plan. That's the second one. I have set up a steering committee with all the representatives of the testing chain on the care side, but also with EZK, because I also want to look at it from the point of view of keeping the economy open. They are preparing an implementation plan on the basis of which I can make a decision before 1 November. I think it's important to add that. In addition, we asked Xander Koolman, health economist, if he could see from an economic perspective what the added value of high frequency tests could be. Of course, always under the condition of safety and all that. I expect that advice before 1 November. With that combination, I want to reach a decision on how to use rapid tests. I would like to dream with you about how all this could be done, but my only warning is: let us be careful when we expect that this could be done in that way and on that scale in the very short term. I'm afraid it'll have to be gradual.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u361	The hope that we have always cherished from the start of this crisis is: we need a vaccine; if there is just a vaccine, all the shutters can open and we can breathe again. This could be a second route. I already heard in the spring that the vaccine would be there in six months, or at the end of this year. Now I hear: just before the summer. So you can see that horizon moving up. That's what we've been hoping for. This could also be a route that offers a lot of hope. I fully agree with the Minister that in the event of a negative result, we must be sure that it is true. If you have a positive result, you could do a second test as a double check to make sure it's true. If you have a negative result, you have to be sure it's really negative. If there is to be validation, I would say: make the most use of validation in other countries that we know is taking place at a level. Still, this could be a second scenario. From the start of the crisis we sell the hope: if a vaccine comes, it will be fine. This could be the second source of hope, which is perhaps even more realistic than a fast vaccine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u362	Sure. I can follow this argument. Moreover, the government has always followed the prognosis of vaccine developers with regard to vaccines. We have always said 'the first months of'. As soon as that prognosis changes, we will share it with the Chamber and, of course, include it in general communication. "The first months of" and "the first deliveries of"; that's how it's always been. You've never vaccinated the place at once, but you've vaccinated the first groups. We can see that the rapid tests are becoming increasingly reliable. Those who have already been found sufficiently reliable, we have already purchased. We'd like to deploy them as soon as possible. How and in what steps? We're working that out right now. I share with you that this could be very forward-looking, provided that it is sufficiently reliable and sufficiently effective. We really need to answer a few more questions before we can take that step.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u363	Following on from Mr Segers' question...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u364	Maybe you should press the foot pedal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u365	Is that better, Mr. Chairman? We've been having a debate here for weeks about expanding the capacity of the PCR tests. Mr Klaver has also asked a lot of questions about this. When it comes to faster clarity for people, better BCO and making sure there are no waiting times, it's just that LAMP test and that breath test potential contenders. Once you can roll them out, they can have a lot more influence than those few thousand additional PCRs a week, because you can do some kind of prescreening. Absolute condition is that they do not produce false negative results. False positive is a less serious problem. In the letter we received yesterday, the document on antigen tests, as I read it, says: I am trying to make it clear on 1 November or the beginning of November. I don't think that's in the LAMP test or the breath test. Especially when it comes to the test society and the hope and perspective Mr Segers spoke about, the LAMP and the breath test may be more important. The Minister just said that perhaps I could put something on that in my next letter. Despite all the questions and comments that guarantees have been given, it is not a question of guarantees. With the Roadmap, we have provided a perspective. A perspective on how these tests can help the BCO and the test society better does help in the next letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u366	I would like to go along with you, with the preliminary remark that everything I refer to as indicative is immediately translated as a promise that I will then be kept to. We always have to be careful about that. But I'd like to outline the steps we can take. I would also like to outline the perspective that we could develop. One of the perspectives is indeed the LAMP test. How is that LAMP test deployed? It is used to shape the fast test street at the GGD's as quickly as possible. I think we could come to a roll-out where the LAMP test at multiple locations of the GGD's test lines in November in the sum could lead to about 10,000 rapid tests of.............................................................................................................................................. That's a lot of money. So about 10,000 in the plus in November, with a much faster result. That's very likely. The second is the breath test. I hope that it will become available for the first time at the end of November and early December. The breath test can be used because it is reliable in the negative results. In any case, that appears to come from the validation. It can be used prior to the test streets. If you test negative, you can turn right home. I believe that the order of the devices has been the maximum of what can be ordered at the moment. We are indeed working on having that test available as soon as it is sufficiently validated. I will include this innovation and these innovative tests in my outline of the steps we are taking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u367	The knife cuts, especially on this last one, on a lot of sides. The economy is less damaged, people's willingness to move forward is greater if they have clarity very quickly, and you're much less in the test node we've been in over the past week. If the Minister is simply issuing a profit warning and saying that these are not targets, but that he is merely setting out the perspective, taking into account what he is doing here briefly, which test can be used for, then we can simply have an adult debate about it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u368	Yes. I'll be sure to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u369	The Court concluded that the limited purchasing power of a small country like the Netherlands in spring was one of the reasons why we could not scale up fast enough with these tests. The Court therefore recommended that this be done more at European level. My question to the Minister is whether we can also look at the rapid tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u370	We are always looking at how we can increase on the purchasing side at European level. At the moment, we do not experience any obstacle to playing our role with some providers who have said that they first opt for the American market and that the tests are not yet available or are limited to the European market. That happens occasionally, but we have a very large number in order among the two who have been validated, until the summer of next year. I believe that we will have rapid tests in November up to 4.3 million, of which 1.3 million will be on the table before the end of this month. So there's a lot of buying going on. This actually makes maximum use of the national purchasing power of the Netherlands. I think governments are now better able to buy in quickly. Where we must work together, if we feel that we in the Netherlands are very small, as is certainly the case with vaccine developers, we will not fail to do so. We always have good relations with Germany. A European strategy has been developed, so it is effortless to scale up to European level. But if that slows us down, then I prefer to do it myself as the Netherlands. We do not actually have any barriers to procurement at the moment, as far as I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u371	That's good to hear. Then there's another question about testing. I think it is very good that in his next letter, or at the beginning of November, the Minister explains the test strategy further. I can imagine that it is also different for each phase of the roadmap which strategy you apply and which target groups might give you priority, especially if we are not yet at the desired maximum capacity. Does the Minister also see this and, if so, could he explain how, in the test strategy at each stage, you might be able to deal differently with the priority you give to certain groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u372	Yes. For the use of quick tests, for example for events.... you mentioned yourself that suggestion..... I think you will do less in a situation with a very high level of infection, because then the risk of false negative results is not only greater, but also more dangerous. But if there is a very low level of infection, then perhaps that is something you would dare at any time. So that is how I can imagine that there are differences. In any case, there are differences with regard to real source and contact research, to the extent to which you shape that, but also to the extent to which you can really expect an inhibiting effect on the spread of the virus. So testing and tracing does indeed have an effect in the scaling up of different forms of expression. I'll try to sketch that as best I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u373	Yes. Then I have Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u374	I have a question about privacy. Around the corona app there has been quite a bit of criticism of guarding the privacy of citizens and fundamental rights. It's been quite a while. Eventually, the Minister found a way in. Now it also seems difficult to request additional information. That was rejected, as was the case this morning during the briefing with Mr Van Dissel. What exactly is the problem with obtaining information that enables people's behaviour to be measured more accurately?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u375	That is a very general question. I think you mean a very specific example. Perhaps you could specify this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u376	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u377	I read in the newspaper today that once again the application from VWS for information from telecom providers has been rejected, because that application does not comply with the privacy rules, and that there is considerable criticism by experts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u378	Well, there are indeed numerous privacy barriers in the approach. One of the privacy barriers in the Netherlands is strange enough, in the rest of Europe it is true that it is simply about the use of telecom data needed to assess the hustle and bustle. We know that crowds can be predictive in infections. We also know that you would like to measure crowds to see if compliance with measures is sufficient. That's a very old wish from the RIVM. We have tried to accept that wish with a bill from my colleague Keijzer. It wasn't immediately thrilled to put it mildly. That's why we improved that bill. There has been a round of questions and a note following the report. We've had further discussions with the AP. We have sent a letter of amendment and a comprehensive letter. I think, in my mind, the bill is now before us. I think it's up to the Chamber right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u379	Then perhaps you can recalibrate that in that context. Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u380	Last time I asked a question about those old remnants of viral RNA that cloud the results. The margin of error in low prevalence also resulted in a very large number of error positive results. But my question wasn't about that right now. The minister just said it was about the Ct value, the cycle treshold, the cut-off value. I think it's just 45 now, but it's not about that either. The point is that RIVM has recently made an adjustment to the assessment criteria. The assessment shall not take place after 30 cycles, but after 35 cycles. So we're skipping that whole grey area and registering as error positive. There is also not testing on three or two targets, but on one target. My question is: when did that happen and why?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u381	You're asking an insanely technically complicated question. You must have worked at a lab for a long time to answer that. I know you put it to Jaap van Dissel this morning in the technical briefing. He said: I have to find out; I will come back to that. Well, part of the answer is in the annex that you received last night. If I try to explain that to you, I think the rest of the room will check out completely. I think this is so deep in the technique that we really need to do this in writing. Mr Van Dissel will return to this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u382	I couldn't agree more. However, I would also like you to include the impact on the number of falsely positive results. We now have four or five different parameters that have changed and all have an effect on more error positive results. That has a huge effect. If you can take that in the letter, I am very pleased with the answer. Then I also hope that this letter will come a little soon and that I will not have to wait another six or twelve weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u383	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u384	I suggest you move on. You had arrived at the second subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u385	That is the roadmap and the escalation ladder, but most of the questions that touch on the deployment and strategy of that roadmap have just been answered by the Prime Minister. I think I will start with Mr Van der Staaij's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u386	Did I skip Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen? She's telling me she didn't. Then proceed. I thought I should have given her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u387	Mr Van der Staaij asked whether there is anything possible in that regional roadmap and whether it is part of that roadmap. Indeed, a number of measures are prescribed per level of risk as "at least measures to be taken." We discussed this in the previous debate. The Chamber has repeatedly expressed the wish to find such a road map. I myself had the intention of coming up with such a road map from the summer onwards. This has to do with a number of lessons that we have learned in the lessons-course. The first is the great desire to achieve more customization, to correct regional differences. In some regions there is a real need for vigorous measures which would lead to unnecessary collateral damage in the other regions, where the level of contamination has not yet been so high. That's why you want to be able to differentiate regionally. But in recent months, the Chamber has also said in several debates that you do want customisation, but that it does not just contribute to its predictability. That was Rob Jetten's point in the previous debate and also Pieter Heerma's. So you actually want to serve two goals. You want to keep the customisation slightly intact, so you can apply regional differences. At the same time, you actually want to be as predictable as possible. Of course, less customization is possible as the level of contamination increases. In fact, you have to take more and more crude and rude measures to bring it back to the level you would really like to have. But where the level of contamination is low, or very different in the country, it is of course possible to apply that customization. That's what the road map looks like. This roadmap is designed to start with a lot of customisation and then reduce customization. It starts with reasonably sophisticated measures and with many measures to consider in a region. As the time passes or the rate of infection rises, the measures will be increasingly coarser and clumsy, up to the level that you have to work with a partial or complete lockdown, to make sure you get back into control. Mrs Van Brenn asks a question about the R in relation to this. I understand that question very well. If you look at how the R-value has evolved in recent times, you can see that it has been 1.3 for a while. Then he dropped to 1.17. Then he went back to 1.27 and now he's 1.27 again. You know this is the effective R from two weeks ago. So two weeks ago, the R was 1.27. Of course, that's just too high. This leads to a doubling of the figures within two weeks. That's just how we saw it, so in that respect, the line goes on like this. You want to go back to under 1. We tried to make a package, where you're as close to 0.8 as possible. The OMT says at least 0.9. So it's under 0.9. At the same time, the OMT also says that it is very difficult to achieve a situation with this virus, where the R is very much lower than 0.8. It just turned out to be. This has also proved very difficult at the spring lockdown. Internationally, too, it seems to be a very difficult game to really get below 0.8. It's nice if we get as close to that 0.8 as possible, because at 0.9 it just takes longer before you get back to a manageable level. So the closer to 0.8, the better. Of course, you have just had this complicated discussion with the Prime Minister. On the one hand, you take measures, but it is not that there is a kind of linear link between the measure you can take and the effect on the R. You have experience from spring. You also have experience data from other countries, although they are also highly cultural and situational. So you have experience data and you have an expectation of compliance, as to how people comply with the measures. That's what you're gonna have to do. That's how you model. If only you were to take a certain measure to ensure that you reach a certain R. Unfortunately, it's just too complicated for that. I thought it was Mr Segers, Mr Heerma and Mr Asscher who spoke about the limit values, thresholds or signal values, whatever you want to call them. We call them signal values. With these values, you move from one level of risk to another. Then you're gonna take action. They ask if we are sure that we will not continue to pursue the facts. That is the key question, the key question when designing this road map. I predict that this one too will not be perfect. There is no road map that is completely perfect. The virus is agile, so we have to stay that way. I do believe that the predictability of the roadmap will help. I also think that the speed with which you can reach decision-making will help. In the decision-making process, we have now set it up in such a way that RIVM will report on Monday which regions meet the signal values. Of course, the department and the RIVM start in the previous week: which regions are likely to be classified at a certain level of risk as from Monday? Then there is the transition from the first level of risk to the second, the threshold of 50 to 100,000 over the last week. That's 7 per 100,000 a day and then added up every day. That is the same threshold as was used in Germany. On Mondays, that's the indication. So it is actually the nomination of a region for a certain risk classification. The detailed analysis will then be carried out in the region itself on Tuesday, other context indicators will be weighted and the corresponding package of measures will be formulated. On Wednesday, the scaling-up will take place. Wednesday night, I'll decide on that. On Thursday, the measures will go into effect. That speed is in this system. If you simply count on the layers of reproduction, I think you can see that the speed with which measures are taken is adequate. Then the question is: what is the purpose of the package of measures you are taking? Actually, the target has to be each time: back to 1. Exactly. This is always the system. You need to take the package of measures to get back to 1 as soon as possible. Why do we say that? That depends on the effectiveness of the source and contact research. That's really effective at that level of contamination. But if you start to go far beyond that, the effectiveness decreases rapidly. I think, quite frankly, that we have had most of the questions about the roadmap. Yeah, I think we've had most of the questions about the roadmap.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u388	Knowing the MPs, they're in front of the interrupting microphone, if you forget a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u389	They'll pull me on my jacket.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u390	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u391	My question is about the beginning and the end of this block. The Minister was right to start with the questions of colleague Van der Staaij. I cannot escape the impression... At the beginning of the debate it was between the Prime Minister and Mr Asscher about the question: was it too late or was it not hard enough? The conclusion is: it should have been harder before. At an earlier time, when it could be harder, it was too little. But in the weeks that it was regional, we've seen a lot of images of mayors who doubted. They said, "If I close the catering business with me, they're going to drink alcohol in the neighborhood." While there was doubt about that, the neighborhood had already gone orange. About the lock the minister gives here. Does this mean that if the regional approach... we're back in a dance phase. In the municipality of Amsterdam it runs up. I take Amsterdam out, but it could also be The Hague or Schubbekutterveen. But if it gets there and the values go to the second or third box, do the measures of the catering industry automatically go into that Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday? Are we not all going to be consulted again with security regions and a decision that comes a week later and then starts three days later?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u392	That's right. A large part of the measures will therefore at least be taken. As the contagion rate increases, so as you go to the right in that scheme, the list of measures that must be taken in any case is increasing. The interesting thing is that the enthusiasm for a lot of customization and very little around the summer was very big. But as things got more exciting, everyone's enthusiasm for MPs, mayors and ministers has quickly diminished. We still think: as the rate of infection increases, you will simply have to be more unambiguous in the measures you take. This has not only an administrative reason, but also a substantive reason. You can see that the waterbed effect can be quite large between one region and another. You saw that in the speed with which we came to those measures on our way to September 29th. I believe that we were still sitting on the table with Femke Halsema on Wednesday. On Thursday we saw that Rotterdam and The Hague ended up in Amsterdam conditions quite quickly. On Friday, we sat down with them. On Monday we said: we must take the measures we had in mind for the whole country, otherwise it will be too fast. That's because you saw regions discoloured pretty quickly at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u393	But that means that at the stage before you see all those regions discoloring, those things enter virtually automatically and quickly into the regions that are discoloured.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u394	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u395	Then I have a specific question. I am talking about the transition from serious to very serious. There's really the big deal when it comes to catering. It's gonna be a few hours less and then it's gonna be completely closed in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u396	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u397	Now I understand that you have to go completely close to "very serious" but don't you have to do something more with "serious" too, also to give the signal that it's really serious?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u398	Yeah, that's imaginable. But you are also trying to do so in Parliamentary debates; we also have to consider this ourselves: you want to hit that virus hard, but you also don't want to make the collateral damage unnecessarily worse. Therefore, in the set of measures to be taken, given the level of infection and given the level of risk, we have included those measures that are effective, but also proportionate. Can you shoot over, too? Yeah, you can. So you can also take more measures. Every time you look at the level of risk, you see what you have to do, so at least what measures you have to take, and what measures you can consider. That's what he's doing in the hospitality hours, for example. [[Sentence could not be parsed: En eigenlijk kun je …]] I'm standing very, very... I'd rather just have a big blackboard here, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u399	Yeah, I can see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u400	You can always say that the measures to be considered in one level of risk correspond to the measures to be taken in the next level of risk. And that's how it goes on all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u401	I thought it was a good question from Mr Heerma. In my view, that is exactly where the cabinet wants and does, and what at least a part of the Chamber indicates. I think it is better to intervene harder and faster, so that it takes a shorter time and thus the consequences are less disproportionate than in the current situation, where the cabinet actually waits for the number of infections to exceed a certain level. Look how we're doing now. You'll be dealing with a lot of serious measures for a very long time. In my opinion, policy should be much more focused on not waiting for a certain limit value to be reached, but on taking action as soon as it rises until it goes down again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u402	Sure. There are different assessments of what is sensible and proportionate at that time. I think that's just gonna take a weighting. I cannot say that I am sure that what the cabinet is proposing is exactly what needs to be done. That's always an administrative weighting. What do you think is effective to get that virus underneath and what is proportional, given the state of the spread? What should also simply work sufficiently in the sum of measures and behaviour? Imagine if in a situation where the figure is above 50 per 100,000, we would say that from that moment on the catering industry will be closed anyway. In that case, I am almost certain that the Chamber would say: we do not think that is proportionate. Then I say yes, but it works for the virus! And then you say, "Yes, but it doesn't work for the economy this way. This is way too rough. If we all just stick to the rules a little better, the catering industry doesn't have to close at all." And that's true, of course. In short, it is always a weighting. In every situation, it's a weighting. We wanted to fill in the question that came from the Chamber and from mayors and the desire that also lived with ourselves, as best we could, by putting in place at least a number of measures to be taken in each level of risk, as well as measures to be considered. So we made that combination. I am also open to considerations which make a certain package of measures more stringent. I think that's what we need to find out about each other. In any case, we must agree on the following, for every situation in which it must take action. If that hammer is going to work completely well and if in a month's time we are going to be alert to the level of risk in most of the regions, then we should at least agree that in any scaling up to a higher level of risk those measures will be taken to help us get back into control. This is a combination of the measures to be taken in any case, including clarity, predictability and, in addition, measures to be considered. And as you say, these must be sufficiently robust measures to actually get back into control. That's how we want to work with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u403	I know what the Minister's saying. At the same time, I think that's part of the problem. He actually says: what is necessary or probably possible, we do not propose because we think that there would be no support in the Chamber. I think that the cabinet should play a different role in this: explain why it is necessary and why it will take a shorter time, so that we can go to the café and the theatre sooner. So the question I asked the Prime Minister was about that. It wasn't: gosh, did you stick to the roadmap you published yesterday, with retroactive effect? No, I don't think that's interesting. The question is whether you are prepared to learn from the fact that the measures did not lead to a reduction in August, which meant that we were later faced with much heavier measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u404	I also said it subtly differently than Mr Asscher summarized it. I did not say that the reason why we have not yet taken action is that we are having difficulty explaining it to society. I did say that the concept would probably not be very high if you said immediately, at a very low level of contamination, that the catering industry was closing down. That is not a reason not to want to take a measure that you should take, given the content. What we are doing with this is to make it as transparent as possible in which contamination situation which measures are at least necessary and to consider, in addition, with the aim of always returning to level of risk 1. My prediction is that this is going to help us in the clarity, but my prediction is also that this is going to help us in the explainability of the measures you take in a given situation. The perspective, apart from the longer-term perspective on rapid testing and on vaccination, is: we actually want to be able to do those things again that are associated with a low level of infection. I think perspective is very important. The explainability of exponential growth is also quite complicated for someone who has done the pabo. This requires that we explain to each other why the measures are needed in a given situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u405	Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u406	Finally. I have asked the question I believe five times to the Prime Minister and twice to the Minister. They find it difficult to acknowledge that too little has been done in August, while the facts teach us that now. My final question is a substantive question about the quarantine package. We argued for this in May. Or is that what's happening?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u407	I'll get to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u408	Then I suggest...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u409	What I could of course do, agile as we are... Of course, we can start on that block right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u410	Shall I ask the question right away?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u411	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u412	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u413	I read in last night's letter that research has been carried out and that there has been talk about income support, but that it has not yet been achieved. I find that difficult. You hear people about the enormous burden of going into quarantine, while it scores extremely high in terms of effectiveness; see also the scientific overviews. If people go into quarantine, that's gonna help a lot anyway. My request would be: look at how they did it in Belgium and how they did it in the Czech Republic and choose a creative solution whereby you grant income support to people who cannot make use of the Disease Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u414	We have had that debate before and now Mr Heerma asked for it. I think it is important to underline that it is not unwillingness. We'd really like to do something for this. That is why we have examined all the possibilities, but it is not very easy. I would also like to invite Mr Asscher to join us in thinking about what that might look like. It is not so easy to come up with a system that is technically still somewhat feasible by any public service. The UWV is of course also under high voltage with the implementation of all the regulations that are already there. The municipalities also do a lot of things. But it is not so easy to come up with an arrangement that is somewhat feasible and not terribly prone to fraud. That's the point. If someone reports with "I have to stay at home because I've been in contact with someone; it's on my app," it's very difficult for an employer to determine whether that's true. It is also very difficult for an enforcer of a scheme to establish whether it is true what the employer says to the performer. In short, we would like to come to something, but I fear that this will be in a more general and less focused form, a more general agreement with employers. This is part of the agreement that employers will feel responsible for, for example, the people with a zero-hour contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u415	I'd like to know how far you're about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u416	This was actually through Mr Asscher's question the introduction of the quarantine block, which I had brought forward very flexibly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u417	We agreed to debate until 11 p.m. at the latest. Everyone's been sticking to that for the past few weeks. All Members of the European Parliament are sticking to this and I hope that the group chairmen will set a good example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u418	Mr President, I am going through it again quickly, but at least this has taken away one question. That helps. That brings me straight to Mr Heerma's question. We would like to return to that in the direction of your Chamber. Mr Koolmees talks intensively with social partners on this issue. I will ask him, in the letter which the Prime Minister has just promised on the aid packages and the extent to which they can actually breathe adequately in the current situation, to take into account this part of the aid. This is simply support for small employers and for individual workers: what could you do in it? But it's complicated. Again, I am open to any technical suggestion you may have. Then there's the legal effect of the quarantine obligation. No, I'm gonna answer another question first, which is what we're actually doing to support people who need quarantine. 'Cause that's what it starts with, of course. We need to lower that threshold. We have now made a good guide, with all the elements that help people to stay home. We have asked the Red Cross to do the same in order to increase their support very much, to ensure that it gives the support that is possible, for example when shopping because you can't get out the door, getting medicines, etc. In short, there is a lot of support, also social support, and it is also offered to people when they get source and contact research or when they are in contact with the GGD, the municipality or whatever. If they have a question about how to get support in quarantine, they will be given that quarantine guide with all forms of social support. Finally, that is really the final part of the question, namely the obligation, the quarantine obligation. For example, what can we learn from other countries? Most countries around us have a quarantine obligation, sometimes with heavy fines. Whether these heavy fines are imposed very often, I do not know. What countries around us are better off than we are, I think that the advice to go into quarantine is not advice to ignore shoulder-picking. That is also the reason why I have proposed that, as a final piece of everything, we should actually maintain that quarantine obligation at some point. Now there's a quarantine obligation in the current law. It's very hard to maintain. This requires all kinds of steps and is also part of criminal law. That is not appropriate in a number of situations, but you do want to be able to impose that quarantine obligation more easily in a legal sense, and that is why I am currently looking with Mr Grapperhaus to see if there is any administrative variation. As soon as we've worked that out, we'll come back to your room. So that duty as a final piece. Of course, it starts with social support and possibly also income support. That's what we're investigating, and we're open to any suggestion. I also think we should always say to each other that no matter how much we understand that quarantine is complicated, that that's never an excuse to not stick to the advice. It is really very important to keep mentioning that. Then I'm with the questions about vulnerable people. I shall begin with Mrs Van Brenn's question. How's the minister gonna take care of shutting down the nursing homes? I think you have actually done a very good job of that yourself, by bringing that amendment to the covid law as we have had it. Fortunately, a hand delivery has been made on how to deal with visits through all field parties. Really all the logos of the whole field are underneath. It's really well used, too. That's really a handout that's being worn very badly in the field. It is very well indicated that in any situation there should be any possibility of visiting. Sometimes it has to be limited, as the level of contamination increases. All kinds of conditions are, of course, also laid down. Each location makes its own visitor plan. They do that for the location, but they actually do so by resident. So who is allowed to visit under what conditions? I actually think that's something very nice, which means that closure is really not going to happen anymore. Is it possible to anchor that right of visit in the Public Health Act? You have anchored it in the temporary law and so it is for as long as the covid crisis lasts, at least if you continue to extend the temporary law at least part of the Public Health Act. Mr Van der Staaij asks how to prevent the other forms of care for the elderly from being scaled down, such as day-use or community care. The signals that we had very bad in the first wave, that people out of fear actually called off their neighborhood nurse or their domestic help, which sometimes made the sight of very vulnerable people at home very little, I actually don't have so yet. We have, of course, provided sufficient personal protective equipment. The whole discussion on preventive use has been settled. That helps, too. I think we should be very alert on those signals. Because the risk that people will actually get completely out of the picture if they don't dare to let in district nurse is big. What you do see is pressure on the staff themselves and that staff themselves gets infected and has to stay home for that reason. This, of course, puts a great deal of pressure on the staff planning of the district nurse organisation. That was also a question that Mrs Van Brenn asked, so I immediately answered it. You both asked the question how we could ensure that daily spending continues. Explicitly, that deal was made. We have also set out in the Roadmap what is justified in what situation. And of course, daily spending will best be phased out and compartmentalized. So they'll be working in cohorts. Sometimes it has to be smaller because it has to be at 1.5 meters. Then the groups should be less large, et cetera. That can all be done, but spending the day completely stops, as really happened in the first wave, is creepy, because before you start it again and before you activate the people again, it takes a very long time. In addition, day-to-day spending is very often part of how many people have arranged their home situation. If you really need those few parts of the day to have a bit of a liveable week at all, then stopping daily spending is very heavy. That is what we must try to prevent. We are. We'll make those arrangements, too. Then Van Haga asks: can the Minister investigate scenarios in which vulnerable elderly people have to keep a little more distance? We have already had that debate, but I simply do not feel that way. I don't think that's the right signal towards our elders, so I'm not gonna do that. I'm just going to see how we older people can be much more supportive. I would very much like to support all the organisations that contribute to this, because I think that is what is needed. We have seen at the first peak that the loneliness of people who already have a very small world of living, social bubble, can increase. We must ensure that this is prevented and that the bubble remains sufficiently large, with all the safety requirements of course. But we have to make sure that older people stay in touch. A number of questions have been asked about ventilation, by Mr Wilders but also by Mrs Van Brenk. We've talked about ventilation before, because ventilation is extremely important. RIVM advises on this. RIVM also notes that ventilation through reventilation is not wise, that this can lead to drops sticking longer or being pumped around again and that the ballistic curve is going to be larger than that 1.5 meter. This also applies to swivel fans that are misadjusted. So be careful with that! In addition, the RIVM says: comply with building regulations. That is not easy at all, we have seen in education. That is why a support team has been set up and a lot of money has been made available in education. That applies to education. We have also talked about this with ActiZ on a regular basis. ActiZ took this in a very good way and made a risk assessment of the ventilation systems with the members, especially at care locations with recirculation. We have also done the same with disability care. So V&VN is going on a similar path with disability care. The youth sector is also doing the same for these locations in particular. In short, we are actually doing what Mr Wilders proposes, which is to check with the various sectors what is going on in ventilation and what is needed in support. The picture we have now is that schools have a much greater demand than nursing homes, because the nursing homes had already taken much more measures and had a much better view of the quality of ventilation. In that respect, we keep our finger on the wrist, but that support just seems to go well. Can we go back to 24-hour shelter for homeless people, Mr Segers asks. In the directive published last Friday, the Secretary of State of the United States of America, you know him: Mr Blokhuis again calls on municipalities to organise the shelter as much as possible in single or double rooms where people can stay 24 hours a day. We have already compensated for the additional costs for municipalities. We will continue to do so. In addition, we call on general facilities, day-use sites, to remain as open as possible to vulnerable groups, including homeless people. Only in the case of an overall national lockdown with the advice to stay indoors, we call on municipalities to be able to accommodate non-right holders as well, as with the normal cold weather regime. It simply exists and is activated when the situation gives rise to it. Mr President, I have thus had the questions about vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u419	First Mrs Van Brenk and then Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u420	I specifically asked a question following the technical briefing on home care. There is really much less concern there, as was said this morning, while we know that some people do not go to nursing homes because they are afraid that there is Corona there. So you'd think there'd be more home care. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u421	What we see is that the image is really different from that in March. In March, people were frightened by the lockdown. Very often, the clients themselves said, "Stay away for a while." Because that neighborhood nurse had been to the neighbor's first, and there again the neighbor of and so on, so maybe she will come in with the virus under the arm. That was a bit of the image that a lot of older people had. We're seeing much less of that now. We don't actually see that type of scaling now. Nor can we see that organizations for community care scale their own movement. What does occur is that the pressure on the staff is high, especially if many care workers themselves are ill, become infected or have to be quarantined because a roommate is infected. Sometimes it gets pressure on the roster. But at the moment, my image is not that a lot is being scaled down. That will certainly occur in a number of situations, but I do not think that is very well scaled up for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u422	We are therefore hearing that fewer hours are being delivered, but I understand that the Minister has not yet received that signal. Nor has my question been answered as to how the Minister looks at the manifesto that home care has drawn up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u423	Let me promise you something else. In the next letter, I will also try to give a much more precise figure, as far as possible, an insight into the extent to which we see at the moment that this district care is actually being scaled down. It is therefore not comparable to March. That's when it was really big. But in a number of situations there will certainly have to be scaled down, because of the pressure on staff. To what extent am I going to try to give an indication in your direction. That is my commitment to this. Then the manifesto. I think that the manifesto is very much in line with what we are now looking at. In that first wave, the decision not to allow visitors was necessary. You also saw that from that moment on, the number of sites with an infection started to decrease significantly, but it was also heartbreaking. We've talked about that a lot here in the Chamber. The suffering that was caused by that measure was so terrible. It has also taken so long before locations dared to open again. We had to create a roadmap to re-open those locations for visitors. In short, I think last weekend's manifesto in the newspaper was actually taken from everyone's heart. That is why we are now saying: take all the measures necessary to keep that virus out of the door or cohort people as soon as that virus comes in. You do, but don't go back to that closure measure. I think everyone's behind that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u424	Mrs. Van Brenk, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u425	Yes, finally... I really haven't had an answer to a number of issues. I think it is a very sympathetic answer, but it was an answer to another manifesto.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u426	Oh, dear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u427	It is important to answer questions, because otherwise...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u428	It was about a manifesto of home care "We're tired of it." That was particularly about the fact that all of them, as district nurses, were very grumpy about the duty of mouthcaps, or the space they were given. So I'd like an answer to that. I would also like an answer to the question about ventilation. Can it be investigated whether, if there is a corona outbreak at nursing homes, ventilation is also being looked at? I am also still waiting for the answers to the questions we have asked about this. Because I just want numbers and clarity. I also asked a question about daily spending. A lot of organisations get into trouble because funding is simply insufficient. They only have half the occupation, but they have the full cost. Can the Minister give an answer to that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u429	Those are specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u430	These are very specific questions. I will return to the manifesto in second term, otherwise I will always have to answer different manifestos. They take advantage of each other, but I want to do justice to this, so I'd like to come back to it in second term. That's one. Two. If there is an outbreak and if it is suspected that ventilation may have played a role, this is indeed being investigated. For example, that plays at the nursing home in Maassluis. There that was very thoroughly investigated and the result of the study was "we cannot rule out the fact that it has played a role," but especially because there was a recirculation in the same room in this nursing home. That was the system. ActiZ also called all his other members: "You don't have such a system, do you? Because if you do have such a system, you have to do something about it." But at least what caused the introduction of the virus in Maassluis is that it has entered both along the line of staff and probably along the line of the visit, and also in several virus strains. It is therefore certainly not the case that ventilation has played the main role or a decisive role in the distribution in that house. If there is another outbreak, the GGD can also choose to investigate such an outbreak, and if it is suspected that ventilation may have played a role, they will certainly do the same. Those investigations only enrich the knowledge over and over again, so that's how it goes on. Then it's the day's spending. It depends a little on the type of day-to-day spending and on how the funding is put together, but if there are additional costs arising from day-to-day spending because the day-to-day spending has to be organised in a different way, I am not reluctant to look at the financing as well. But I'm also a little hesitant about it, because I've also seen that you have to keep an incentive to keep that day's spending as open as possible. Otherwise, this day-to-day expenditure may well be too long on the table, and you want to keep it as open as possible. At the moment, I have the feeling that the agreements as we have them, including the financial ones, are adequate. But if that's not the case anymore, we'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u431	First Mr Azarkan and then Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u432	In the context of vulnerable people, I have the following question. We know from the lockdown that child abuse and domestic violence are likely to increase, but there is also something else, namely mental health care. That's what it's all about. We heard this morning during the technical briefing that 71,000 references from people seeking help in mental health could not take place at the previous lockdown. How's the Cabinet handling that? I see the ministers talking and I see a short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u433	This is what the Secretary of State for Medical Care is dealing with, it seems.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u434	I think the Minister for Medical Care has prepared this answer. Yeah? Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u435	Okay, then it comes back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u436	Because it's about rebooting regular care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u437	That's what the Minister's gonna come back to. Then I'm going to see Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u438	I had asked another question about homeless people and homeless people and about home evictions. In the first wave it was said: during this corona wave we are not going to evict people from their homes. There's also a winter coming now, and a second wave. It would be very good to make the same commitment now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u439	Absolutely. Very much so, except for a few exceptions. If there is serious fraud or criminality, it must remain possible to evict. You have to keep thinking about people's neighbors, too. But in general, I very much agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u440	Okay. I'll see how many questions you have left.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u441	Well, I have some other questions, but no more cubes, I say to reassure you. Mr Krol asks for damages claims if a vaccine has side effects. Here's the thing. Pharmaceutical companies are, of course, working hard to meet all the stringent requirements within the European Union for the safety, efficacy and quality of vaccines. At the same time, the development of vaccines has a number of uncertainties. A number of principles remain very important. I would like to emphasise this very clearly. All citizens' rights remain unaffected. I can see that in a number of foreign countries there is still some change in design, but within the European Union, citizens can always hold a company liable. Liability and product liability are also simply fully respected according to all the rules that govern it. Adverse reactions which originate from non-compliance with these rules are simply a producer's liability. However, there have been agreements about claims that see a hidden lack of a vaccine that was not known at the time of authorisation. For adverse reactions not yet known at the time of authorisation but occurring one year or two years later, and for claims by third parties to the products related to those adverse reactions, Member States may grant safeguard under strict conditions. This does not, of course, apply if they are the result of non-compliance with legal rules for production. So the answer is: yes, but under very strict conditions and only when it is not in production, but in side effects that were not known at the time of admission. Only under that condition. Mr Krol asked if the Minister would do anything to enable different forms of medication. The answer to that is, of course, yes. From the outset, we are doing everything we can to make new innovative treatments possible, to encourage them where they do not come into being automatically and to finance them in addition. I'll save you all the numbers, but we'll do it in full. We're getting advice from science all the time. We have set up an expert panel that deals with promising innovative developments from all over the world that you should also want in the Netherlands and the question how the ministry can also contribute financially to making that possible. That really is a continuous process. And there's some really nice stuff coming out of there. That was actually the most important thing. Oh, here's another question about home evictions. Then the question about the availability of the results of the wastewater monitoring. Of course, we have the results of the wastewater monitoring for all these more than 300 water treatment plants. The reduction is now taking place weekly, later twice a week and later hopefully even daily. What needs to be done there is the explanation by the RIVM: what can you read from a certain result? How can you correlate them to the rate of infection of that moment? In the coming weeks I hope to receive a first explanation from the RIVM and I will share it with you. In addition, RIVM has indicated that you would actually like to do pre-emptive testing in a number of nursing homes. But pre-emptive testing is also incredibly burdensome, I heard again this morning when I was on a job visit. You're gonna charge people with dementia with such a nasty test. Is there anything you can read from the sewage treatment study for that? Research is still being started by RIVM and is very in its infancy. I cannot yet mention the outcome of this. Then there's the difference between the hospital admissions that were on the dashboard first and they're on it now. We first based ourselves on the hospital admissions reported to the GGD and there was quite a delay in registration. We have said that we want much more up-to-date figures. Well, we've always had those available. Those were NICE's figures and by now we've made an automatic link between the figures of the NICE foundation and our dashboard and thus much better reflects the current state of affairs. This was not self-evident, because of one of the privacy barriers Mr Azarkan mentioned. Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u442	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u443	Then I guess I've answered all the questions with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u444	The lights go out at 11:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u445	I even hear Mr Wilders saying that it is, so it must be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u446	Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u447	I still miss the journalists' WOB requests. It's the last item the minister's gonna discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u448	It's the last thing you keep.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u449	Yes, but I gave you an answer to that last week, and that hasn't changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u450	That's kind of weird. Several journalists, the minister was tagged there, because he is very often on social media I know from experience...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u451	Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u452	Yeah, I'm following the minister, too. Of course, you also saw what all those journalists thought of the Minister's reply. So I ask the Minister: what is the truth about handling all these WOB requests from journalists?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u453	Here's what we're gonna do. 112 WOB requests have been received. On the basis of the questions in those WOB requests, 800,000 documents were collected. At present, all these documents need to be assessed. That's a huge job. What the journalists who have applied for have been told, even before the summer, is this method: we have to do it in instalments, otherwise it will be too big a job to deal with at once. This means that at the moment we have set up the work process in such a way that we take off all the WOB requests in different instalments. There's a huge team set up. A lot of extra people are attracted to meet those WOB requests. The design of the working method and the collection and inventory of the documents took a little longer than expected by setting up all these systems. Information on corona shall be classified according to subject matter and month and shall be made public in stages after verification by the WOB. Think, for example, of all documents on a theme in a month, which are then made public at once. With this method, the importance of transparency served by the WOB is addressed as quickly and as effectively as possible. Only WOB requests that see very specific information that is relatively easy to access or that relate to information that is not present or already public can be easily removed. In this context, 15 requests have already been closed. The decision on the first documents to be made public in stages is expected to be sent to the applicants in November.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u454	The Minister really gives exactly the same answer as he did last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u455	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u456	That is not the answer I wanted to hear and not that the journalists want to hear, namely those 15 WOB requests that have already been dealt with by the Minister. They have indeed been dealt with, but absolutely not with the documents that have been requested. Documents have even been sent that have not been asked for, which have just been sent to different media services, but not to those that were explicitly asked for. I'd really like to know what's going on with the Secretary of State. And that's not one case. Those are News, RTL News, Volkskrant, NRC. Curiously, they have all received the same documents, most of which they have not asked for at all. How's that? Can journalists still control the cabinet in these times of crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u457	I think so. I don't think we have anything to complain about. Anything requested in the context of the WOB should be provided if the WOB gives rise to such a request. Which means you're gonna have to search all the documents you've been through lately. That has to be automated, because that's an impossible job manually. It's about 800,000 documents in those months that the WOB requests are about. The fifteen that are currently closed down are the simple requests for a WOB, either because they are public documents or because they are documents that are very easy to access or relate to information that is not available. Those are the simple questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u458	But Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen says that that is not what she wants...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u459	Yes, this is part of the answer. I really need to give that a minute, because that's what was asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u460	Otherwise, stays...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u461	Those fifteen are therefore not part of this phased approach. Those 15 are already done. The phased approach was then chosen for those documents that need to be searched. Of this, we can make the first tranche public in November.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u462	Yeah, but that wasn't the question. Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u463	Thank you very much, Mr President. This was indeed not my question. Those 15 WOB requests have not been properly handled. They didn't send what was asked. In fact, documents have been sent that haven't been asked. The same bundle of documents has been sent to different media, who have asked great questions about the treatment and policy in this corona crisis. I would now like an answer from the Minister as to how this could be done and why he had wrongly replied to the Chamber, but also last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u464	So I just gave you the answer. Those fifteen that have already been done are the easy to unlock documents, which were either public et cetera. At present, the WOB requests are removed at different stages, in a given period, on a particular subject. That first instalment isn't over yet. It won't be taken off until November. In short, the actual WOB questions, for which a lot of research has to be done, will not be completed until November. These fifteen were the easy stuff that could be done quickly, but the first really complicated, with all the research out of those 800,000 documents, will not be done until November. And that phasing will be made known to journalists. If journalists have a question about this, they can simply turn to the department. There are unlikely to be a lot of people working on these WOB applications. It's just a lot of work. But it must be transparent, and it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u465	Finally, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u466	Mr President, I have saved up all my questions. I'm far from finished at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u467	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u468	I think it's really weird. Take RTL, for example. No decision is taken on minutes of the OMT, because apparently they remain secret.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u469	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u470	And the opinions of the administrative coordination consultation, the BAO, are public, but the minutes are not. Then there are a lot of documents, as I said, which have not been requested at all. And to all the media exactly the same, while they've turned off other questions and made quite different WOB requests. They'll be sent the same documents from the Ministry. The Minister cannot, therefore, insist that these are simple WOB requests in which the documents were already public. In all cases, these are very different, specific, parts of the corona policy that is being wobbled about. Those journalists all get the same package of documents they didn't ask for. I just want the Minister to answer my question. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u471	I tried to give that answer twice, but you didn't think that was a good answer. Let me give you this answer. We both believe that the WOB should simply be respected. We all know that this is a lot of work in this situation. We also do not want to bother the people who are fighting the primary crisis with the reconstructing of their mailbox since March. They must fight the crisis. That's why we hired a lot of extra people. What we need to do is to introduce an automation in all searches that need to be done in the context of the WOB. All the documents that are entitled under the WOB just come out. There is no reason, no will and no intention to withhold things. Let's not have a discussion about it that way. We simply need to be as transparent as possible in the context of the WOB. That's one. Two. If journalists have any questions about that, they should just call the department. I think that's more convenient. If they disagree with a decision, they can even go to court at any time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u472	I'm gonna put an end to this anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u473	I think that's the best way to act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u474	I'm sorry, but it's going to be a repeat of questions and a repeat of answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u475	I have a new question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u476	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u477	A new question, my last question. Therefore, at the time that journalists go to court and the Ministry has sent documents to them, however unsatisfactory the question raised in the WOB request is met, there is no longer any possibility of blaming the Minister for not having carried out the WOB request. It's flawed, but he did it. So the only thing that remains open is objection, and that is a month or years of trial. Does the Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u478	I don't know. And with that intention, I'm not doing my job at all. Those journalists are entitled to all documents under the WOB. We have set up a process for that. That is very labour-intensive, but it is being worked with man and power. That's what I can say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u479	You've already said that two, three or four times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u480	There's no consideration of how something like this works out in court. We're not doing that at all. We're in the process of popping out all the documents we need to get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u481	I'll take a look around. I see Mrs Van Esch, but I look at the Minister at the same time to see how many questions he has left.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u482	Zero!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u483	Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u484	At least, as far as I'm concerned. I think Mrs Van Esch doesn't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u485	Mrs Van Esch, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u486	It is becoming a bit of a tradition not to answer the questions of the Animal Party about slaughterhouses. That was the case last time. Now I am back in the same setting with the same request to answer the questions about slaughterhouses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u487	That is also because it is tradition to ask the same questions each time. So it is also tradition that it is always the same answer. The chairman is already so critical and so strict. She looks at the clock all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u488	It's not that bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u489	So I thought, "I've answered those questions before."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u490	You won't get away with it that easily, unfortunately not this time either. In the last two weeks we have seen a major risk in the slaughterhouses, and that is why we are calling them again. Shouldn't you be the minister responsible for the corona crisis when there are fires in our neighbouring abattoirs? Now that we know that it has happened in the Netherlands, I find it very worrying that you say: well, I answered those questions two weeks ago, and we are not going to do that again. Surely that wouldn't be possible for a minister who's trying to fight the corona crisis? Anyway, I'm gonna try to figure out how far we can meet. There are two points that I really think are very important. In Germany, they quickly introduced and rigged a law to protect migrant workers. In the Netherlands the sector simply says: well, we have enough migrant workers; there are a few at home, but who cares? You don't think that's possible. Follow the good example of Germany. Secondly, the production speed in Germany is indeed halved. We are still working on this in the Netherlands. Then I think: I think that's a good point. Let's do that sometime. Another good example of Germany. Thirdly, they test staff there very regularly to prevent outbreaks. Even so, there are outbreaks, but they're trying to prevent them. In the Netherlands we have no idea what is happening. If you do, I'd like to hear it. We're trying to figure out how things are going there from all sides. No clue. I see we're having a little discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u491	I have just received a very good suggestion from Mr Van Ark: perhaps you should promise a letter. I can, of course, promise it again, but that is not the first letter on this point. What we do is what we do. Where there's an outbreak, regulators are the move. Those supervisors are gonna be on their feet the minute there's an outbreak. Then you say: yes, but you have to prevent that outbreak. Because we've had this conversation before. I will say: yes, that is right; we must indeed avoid it by keeping people to the rules. They must keep a distance of 1.5 metres and employers must also do their best to ensure that their people can comply with the rules. If they don't, that's reprehensible behavior. Sometimes that's even criminal behavior. So that's what the regulators are watching.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u492	If that letter is sent to the Chamber, I would ask you to take that seriously. I understand that these are new developments and the example of Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u493	Yeah, but I've done that a lot. Then you ask about the production speed. I have said that Mr Schouten responds to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u494	Mrs Van Esch, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u495	I shall, of course, go into that further. If you do send me a letter again, I would like to know how many inspections have been carried out in recent times, how many have been carried out unannounced, how many inspections have been carried out, how many problems have been detected, how quickly they have been resolved, and what situations have occurred in recent times at the slaughterhouses. The Party for Animals is trying to find out. I don't know. How many inspections have there been? How many situations have arisen? You're almost laughing at that. I'm really worried when we talk about fireplaces here. We're sitting here, and it's 10:15. I find this really a very worrying point, especially when it is laughed at. This is what we absolutely want to know, and we still don't know anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u496	I'm laughing because the chairman is in a hurry and you ask a laundry list of questions. If I were really gonna answer that, I'd be ticking the 11:00 clock on my own. I am therefore going to accept Mr Van Ark's suggestion. I'm trying to answer questions as well as I can in the next letter we're going to send.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u497	My final comment. I think it would be good next time to ask Minister Schouten the answers to all the questions that the Party for Animals raises in the first period during the hour of your break, or the hour of lunch you have. You are the minister who deals with corona and the corona approach. This is not about the economic situation of slaughterhouses. This is a situation that concerns public health. You're responsible for that. Abattoirs are a worrying issue in terms of public health. That's really your file. If you need Minister Schouten to give you the right answers, you must include her in the hour you have. But next time make sure we can get answers here, because we're not going to accept letters all the time with answers to the questions we ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u498	That is not entirely correct and not entirely fair either. You have just received answers, sometimes in writing and sometimes orally, every time you ask questions. What I only note is that you should ask the same questions at regular intervals. I think it would be annoying for everyone if I gave the same answers all the time. You are now asking a laundry list of new questions. I'm just saying that I'm not ready for that right now, but I'm willing to go into that. I find it already complicated to know what is happening everywhere in the Netherlands. What happens in Germany, I just don't know. I am, of course, quite willing to contact Germany on this. Of course I do. Then I'll just get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u499	Then it is important that this is addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u500	I simply do not think it is possible to say to me: 'You have a whole list of questions, but I am not going to answer them' or 'I am going to do so in writing', while all other colleagues here also ask laundry lists questions that you do answer. I'm sorry, but I really don't think that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u501	I wouldn't have liked that either, if I'd said so. But I'm not saying that. I have just indicated that you should also ask questions that I have already answered on a regular basis. I am feeling a little hesitant, with a President in a hurry, to go into that again and answer those questions one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u502	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u503	But I am going to ensure that the questions you have just asked are answered as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u504	The irritation is also that these questions are answered in the same way each time. So I would like to say that next time the questions of the Party for Animals will be answered in a letter, but will also be discussed next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u505	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u506	I would just like to say the following out of collegiality. I almost always disagree with the colleague of the Animal Party, but she is a Member of Parliament, she asks questions and she needs answers. So, frankly, I don't think it's possible for the Minister to do this. I just want to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u507	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I didn't want to remember answers to questions in any way. If I have given that impression, then that is not good, because that is not my intention. I will come back to it in writing anyway, and I will pay attention next time to answering them orally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u508	Yes. It is also a good thing that Mrs Van Esch has now made a point of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u509	I would like to join in on this because it is not the first debate in which questions are asked about slaughterhouses or mink. I understand that the Minister can't know everything, but next time the Minister of Agriculture will just have to join us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u510	That's what the Minister promised. We'll wait for the speaker chair to be cleaned. After that, the Minister for Medical Care will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u511	Thank you, Mr President. I have received a number of questions from the Chamber on topical issues, including the scaling up of ic and regular care, and a number of questions about people and their working environment. But let me start with a question about which I received several apps from your members during the evening. Since I know that the Chamber is very reluctant to use mobile phones during debates, I assume that these are very pressing questions. So I'd like to start with that. These questions are about the alignment of the women's team with the men's team in the division of honor. Let me be very clear about this: what applies to men also applies to women. So the answer to that is yes. The KNVB has made agreements on football for men in the honorary division. Those appointments have to do with the sporty bubble and the medical supervision. I will talk to the KNVB to ensure that these agreements also apply to the women's team in the Honorary Division.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u512	Mr Jetten has a comment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u513	No, Mr. Chairman. I think everyone is very happy with the Minister's commitment to women's football. During the debate, something else was raised about sport, which also confuses other athletes, namely whether the rules for sports are valid for up to 18 years or up to 18 years. The Prime Minister's answer was different from what was on the government's website. So maybe the Secretary of State can clear this up in a minute. So whether it's up to 18 years or up to 18 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u514	Maybe that can be sorted out first, after which the Secretary of State can come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u515	At the very end of the day, I thought: I am making a loop of reply to a sports question from Mr Heerma. Then I'll take this question with me. I am going first to a very important subject that all the groups have actually discussed, namely the planned regular and curative care. In fact, everyone did come up with examples of how bad it is and even how much irreparable suffering it can cause if a planned operation cannot continue. When it comes to a sports injury or knee surgery, it's discomfort. But it can also be about very different things and then you can even talk about irreparable suffering. I recognize these examples; I also know them in my own environment. Partly for this reason, it is a priority for me to start working on this subject. What I really want to emphasise, especially here at the beginning. I will perhaps do this a few more times.... is that the care is still accessible today. The acute care system remained open in March, and this is still the case today. To the people who feel reluctant to go to their GP or feel reluctant to ring the bell, I would like to say: please, don't hesitate to do so. Because we have seen, even in the period of the first wave, that a lot of people were reluctant to ring the bell. That has also led to nasty situations. Hospitals and general practitioners have gained a lot of experience during the first wave, especially with the presence of that acute care. I can also imagine that a lot of people are expressing their wonders or concerns about postponing regular care, which is happening now, while we had agreed on scaling-up planning and we had all of us intended to allow regular care to continue as much as possible. That's right, because the extra capacity for intensive cares as of 1 October has been realized. There are 200 extra ic-beds and 400 extra nurse beds, including people standing on that bed. But something did happen. We've seen that the second wave of corona infections came sooner, came faster, but actually came differently. The pressure is now felt, unlike in March, in the nursing departments. Last week, 20% of the people on the hospital beds had covid-related complaints, 10% of the people potentially had covid contamination and 10% had him. Mr Wilders rightly said that one covid patient actually counts as one and a half, because more people are needed at the bed. That therefore requires a great deal of care. Another difference with March is that we then saw that the wave began from the southern provinces and that it was possible for a long time to accommodate people in the northern provinces. This second wave is rural, even though we also see real regional centers of gravity, like in the Randstad. Several Members of Parliament have pointed out that the very high absenteeism among care workers is an additional problem. A lot of people haven't regained consciousness from the first wave. It's flu season, too. It's all coming together. The number of sick is increasing and this is noticeable in the care. Finally, during the first wave, regular care, except acute care, was scaled down. That meant that a lot of people could jump in on the corona departments. Now, in principle, only scheduled clinical care, such as non-emergency surgery, is postponed. Emergency care, ic-care, outpatient care, but also diagnostics and general practitioner care continue to go through as much as possible. So we also miss the hands of the people who stopped doing this care in March and jumped on the corona departments. We also have positive differences with the first wave. We've got plenty of breathing equipment. We have plenty of personal protective equipment. I will say something about it later in reply to Mrs Van Brenn. We know the virus better. We have more opportunities to treat people. During the first months of the virus, the medical specialists, every time something new came up with knowledge, went together in digital webinars. They've shared every bit of knowledge with each other. We've built up additional buffer capacity on ic-beds and clinical beds. We have also invested heavily in training staff and in new employees. Mr. Chairman. I have had a number of questions about care and what further care can take, but I really want to say a few things here. The care can be a lot, but there is also a limit to it. I've said a lot of things outside these walls these past few days. We, too, can play our part by complying with the basic rules and certainly with the measures announced by the cabinet. What can we do? What else can we do? We can spread covid patients. It's happening all the time. That's part of the solution to allow regular care to continue. But when all the hospitals are full, there's no more spreading. This means that it becomes especially important that the number of infections goes down. Everyone in care is currently working not only in hospital care, but throughout the whole chain: with the general practitioners, with the first-line accommodations, the nursing homes, home care. This also relieves the hospitals. We're looking at employees from the independent treatment centers. We'll see if they can catch up on the emergency care in the hospitals. At present, in regions, parties, together with the NZa, the accessibility regulator, are considering how to help each other. Insurance companies are also involved in this. Good agreements have already been made in this respect in the region of Amsterdam. I will not shy away from bringing these agreements to the attention of others and scaling them up. It may also be that we're moving other patients to zbc's. It comes from the fact that this can have financial consequences, but that should never be the reason, as far as I am concerned, not to include or allow patients to leave. Besides, I don't have those signals, because everybody puts their shoulders under it. Actually, the attitude is: we all jump over our shadows. I'm not gonna stick with a call. I'm also talking to the NZa about that. I also consult with relevant colleagues in the department myself, but also once or several times a week with all the partners in the care, to ask them about bottlenecks and solutions. The Parties shall cooperate well in the ROAZ regions. That's where really new ideas come from. Mr. Chairman. Finally, there is the possibility of looking at neighbouring countries, as we did earlier this year. I have been in contact with the Minister in Nordrhein-Westfalen, who was also more willing to take care of patients from the Netherlands. Even now they are. I am very grateful to them for that. I think we should be able to do what we do ourselves, but I certainly think it is very likely that this possibility will have to be used in the coming days.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u516	Have you answered all questions about regular care?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u517	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u518	Do you have many?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u519	Yes. This was the biggest block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u520	Well, then I'd like to suggest that we finish this. Mr Wilders will then be given the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u521	Yes. I come to Mr Wilders' question. He asked: what did you actually do not to make that scaling happen again? I just said a few things about the lessons we learned. The need to raise the capacity of Ice and Nursing Beds in hospitals has been an important lesson. Just like the fact that we've experienced a lot of health damage by scaling down regular care. That's what we're trying to avoid right now. We also had an exchange of views on this in the previous debate. Mr Wilders has also tabled a motion on this. This summer, the healthcare sector started working on the restructuring plan. There has been considerable investment in the training of staff and the recruitment of new employees. In the first step, on 1 October 2020, 200 extra ic-beds and 400 extra nursing beds were realized. As of January 1st, another 350 ic-beds and 700 nursing beds will be added. Mr. Chairman. Mr Jetten and Mr Van Haga asked about emergency hospitals. Let me say first of all that I think it is very important what the healthcare sector itself thinks, with the knowledge that the healthcare sector has. The hospitals, the Federation of Medical Specialists, the Netherlands Association of Hospitals, the Netherlands Federation of University Medical Centres and also the professional group V&VN have stressed that they do not opt for a set-up with hospitals where only covid patients are taken care of and where no other care is provided. Firstly, the presence of the virus fluctuates in size. It is organizationally difficult to organize it in fixed places. Secondly, the emotional burden on people who would work in such a hospital is really enormous. We certainly shouldn't underestimate that. Thirdly, Corona patients often need care from several medical specialists, i.e. multidisciplinary. In a regular hospital all disciplines are present. However, the care parties indicated that agreements should be made at regional level, including at some point the possibility of temporary treatment of COVID-19 patients at a selective number of locations within existing hospital sites. We are now also looking at this in the context of the continuation of regular care, in combination with the necessary covid care. Mr Jetten asked a very crucial question. He asked, isn't there some kind of invisible triage going on? When you talk to people in health care, you actually see what happened here in March. The moment someone comes to the emergency room who's nervous, you're gonna have to help them. What do you do? A planned operation is something that is planned by definition. It will then be postponed. That's what's going on in hospitals when the pressure from the presence of covid patients is getting too high. First of all, let me stress that all the efforts of the hospitals and the regional organisations of acute care are aimed at maintaining this acute care provision so that everyone who needs emergency care can count on it. We are now seeing a scaling down that takes place in the first phase with low complex, planned care. Then we're talking about hernia surgery and cataract surgery. It's extremely annoying when it happens to you. But we can see that there is also further scaling-up when it comes to postponing more far-reaching treatment, such as heart surgery or transplants. If more scaling-up of care is needed, it will be necessary to consider at each stage which care should be provided, such as the most acute care, e.g. transplants, and which care is scaled down. The Federation of Medical Specialists has made a hand-out for the hospitals, to give their handles for the choices herein. At least I am sticking to the words of Ernst Kuipers, who said of the week: if we do nothing, we can get to the situation in which we are dealing with 75% scaling down in November. But we can still turn that tide around. So I'm putting you here for what we've done and what we can do. We can turn that curve with each other. I will not hesitate to do whatever is necessary to maintain regular care, even if that means that we have to enforce it through the supervisors at some point. I'm willing to do anything. But let's all do our part and get the curve down. Mr. Chairman. Two more questions on this point. Mr Azarkan (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate Mr Azarkan on his personal contribution. Here I would like to repeat the message again to ring the bell if you need care. In March we saw a lot of people stopped coming. You've had the technical briefing. I don't need to repeat what the NZa said there. But we are still seeing the consequences of the reservoir, which is an ugly word from a lot of people who have not been able to express a question of concern. In outpatient care, continuity is currently ensured as much as possible, for example through image bubbles. So we try to use a number of innovative applications and still do diagnostic research. Mr. Chairman. One more specific question about the ggz. Mr Jetten and Mr Van der Staaij also asked about this. Fortunately, the ggz in capacity is back on the old level, but we see that the second corona wave also has an impact on the ggz. We see that there is an increasing number of cohort care and staff breakdown. There is a specific directive for the ggz. Then it's very specific about how you guarantee security. That's in line with the RIVM recommendations. The starting point is that care is continued, including face to face, also with physical presence. There are also opportunities to treat people digitally. But the important thing is that it is appropriate, whether digital or physical, both for the caregiver and for the caregiver. And, of course, we are mainly committed to prevention. We have already discussed the call to pay attention to each other, the increased availability of the Listening Line, the Corona Care Center and the care staff. Mr President, those were the answers to the questions about regular care and ic-care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u522	Yes. Mr Wilders and then Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u523	I don't think it's a very convincing story. I think the Minister has been Minister since July, so I will talk about the government and not about her as an official, as a minister. Of course, the government should have arranged it a long time ago. What the hell? You say we can still turn it around. You're putting it back in front of the public that the virus needs to be able to turn. You should have just taken care of it. You're from the government. You must ensure that this planned care is maintained, even if there is a crisis. Do you know what it means when people with cancer or any other disease don't have a spot or receive treatment? It's horrible if you're going through that, or if you have a lover who's going through that. They don't need to hear you say a bit of bathinating: we can all turn that around. You're gonna have one of those diseases. Then your call won't do you any good. Then you just want to be helped. It's a lot worse than the minister's pretending to be. We have all heard how much care is being scaled down. But it's already going on. Ambulances are being sent away. Just an hour ago, the message from ANP that the Hospital group Twente, the hospitals in Almelo and Hengelo, is no longer recording anyone, that they only record corona patients. A total withdrawal stop has been announced today for all people in Almelo and Hengelo, as far as it is not corona patients. That goes on and on. Why have you, why has the government also not settled things for you since we had the first crisis seven months ago? In this morning's letter from the cabinet, there is a discussion on the labour market issues on pages 63 and 64. It says they're gonna come up with a plan and they don't have an overview yet. On page 64 it says: what is needed now is first of all a clear analysis. We need to get past that phase of analysis and planning! You should have done it by now! Where has the government been for the last six months?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u524	Let me at least say that I fully recognise what Mr Wilders says. Anecdotalally, in my own environment, I see people who have to postpone a parkinsonian consultation, people who are called up that they may not get their infusion for their autoimmune disease and people whose cancer treatment is delayed. These are just a few examples from my own environment, but that will be no different for Mr Wilders. And I'm not talking about the mailboxes. So this is recognizable. I also recognize it professionally from the conversations I have daily, weekly with people in care, with the hospital authorities who have been watching each other since March how to make this monster a cup smaller. That means two things. On the one hand, you get to work. You row with the belts you have. On the other hand, you try to make the boat bigger and make the belts row faster. So that's what we both do at the same time. I am also mainly heading for what the people in the care department say they need. If they say they need it to scale up in every hospital, I think we should facilitate that from VWS. That's what we did this summer. It is an incredibly handsome achievement that 600 beds have been added with people. That's an incredibly handsome achievement. Do we want more? Do we need more? I think so, but at least this happened. Then we come to the situation, and that is what I am trying to say to the Chamber: we still have a number of instruments in the sleeve that are not nice and are all fussy, but they can. Of these instruments, too, I think it is very important if they are worn from the point of view of care. You can see this in Amsterdam, for example, where the independent treatment clinics work together with the ic. If that works, but it would not be taken over in other regions because it is affected by the not invented here syndrome, I will not hesitate to say through the supervisor or myself, from my system responsibility, that it is necessary to do so. But I think, also based on the experience of the conversations I have had, that there is an enormous amount of knowledge, also knowledge of what is needed in that particular hospital and region, and that this is now the most important step. That does not relieve me of the obligation to look where I can continue to facilitate. I think it is right for Mr Wilders to say with the whole Chamber that it should be faster and better, but it is also human work here. At the same time, as a final point in my speech, we can all contribute to the work of the people in the care sector through these measures, which are not funny.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u525	I do not wish to argue here that the Minister has no sense of urgency or does not have her heart in the right place. I'm just saying that the people sitting at home, the people you're going through, have nothing to do with that story. They just want them to be taken care of and they say, "I can't do that, because I'm not responsible for it either if other people don't follow the rules and make sure that the virus goes around more. I have cancer, knee surgery or what, and I just want to be helped." Then they look at the government. They'll look at you. And then we need an answer for them. I'm not saying that to bully the government. I'm saying that because I think those people deserve the help. The bottleneck is, at least at the moment, not so much the number of beds. The bottleneck are the people, the staff. There's a chronic lack of staff. Well, I read last Saturday in Het Financieele Dagblad that there would be a plan from the LNAZ, the National Network of Acute Care, to ensure that 20,000 people from health services, fire brigades and other sectors in which medical people work could go to hospital care. The same Financial Dagblad said that a response had been requested from the Ministry and that the Ministry had said: well, we have not yet looked at it or made a decision on it. 20,000 people. There's a plan. The sector agrees. Is it true that that's still in your department? And why wasn't there a blow to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u526	In March, everyone actually dropped everything except covid care. We had a lot of extra people then and there were also a lot of people coming from other places. That is different now, because we want to allow regular care as much as possible to continue with planned care. I don't know where it is. At least I think it's great that these people say that. I would very much like to find out and report that to Mr Wilders in this period or in second term, because I do not have any taboos. Anything you need.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u527	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u528	We'd do it in three, so finally. Thank you for the commitment. That LNAZ plan, for 20,000 people, should have been implemented as far as I am concerned. Anyway, I'm glad to hear from you in a moment. Of course, we've talked about it before. You know that a lot of people in health care work part-time, and they're almost out of control right now. So I don't know if we're asking the impossible. But if we're the people who are now... I believe that an average of 0.6 fte work in the care sector. If they were to go to 0.7 fte, it would be tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of hours if they were to work a little more, if they could. We've talked about rewarding the people before. We've been talking about more managers to the workplace. I would very much like us to be able to say again in the short term, I think that this should have been done by now: what is happening, what is the state of affairs, when is what being carried out and how many people are being added to it? No analyses, no plans, just an overview. Well, maybe we can talk about that separately sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u529	I believe that in the previous debate I promised Mr Wilders that I would come back to this in a letter. I had already said in advance that there are practical objections to a number of things which seem very logical and which I would like to see done. I'm gonna check on the deadline for that letter, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u530	Okay. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u531	It is quite understandable, of course, that doctors and nurses who work in emergency or other places and see patients coming in with acute respiratory problems will always choose to help those people. But with that there is in fact an invisible triage, because elsewhere in the pipeline of the hospital, I call it disrespectful, still occupy beds and thus make other interventions and other treatments more difficult. That is precisely why Mr Heerma and I tabled a motion on 20 May 2020 to prevent this from happening. Unfortunately, we have to note that this has not been enough. The Minister just indicated that specialists have now drawn up a directive to help at least make the assessment which you can and cannot postpone. My picture is that this directive is purely and exclusively for outpatient care, in other words, for simple interventions that you can actually undergo in the hospital within a day and that there is no directive or assistance for hospitals to do this invisible triage for treatments that have a greater impact or that last longer. Is that right? If it is true that this directive is only for outpatient care, would it not be wise to consider whether a broader balancing framework can be established?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u532	We're actually in some sort of build-up hoping that we won't need the build-up later. The information I have and which I find logical is that at this stage this is the hand-out, because that choice can still be made there. If we're gonna move forward, there's gonna be other choices to make. I think it is primarily the medical specialists to look at it with their knowledge. As far as I know, they're working on that and we don't have to make that choice yet. I think it is very good that Mr Jetten is exposing the issue. Because if you are not open and transparent about it, then it will indeed become a hidden triage. First of all, you want to prevent it, and second of all, if she were there, it shouldn't be hidden. That's being worked on right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u533	Thank you for that. Of course, you want to prevent us from entering that phase, but we need to be prepared for everything. We now know that because of this corona crisis. I think it is important that patients and clients always have maximum transparency about what it means to their situation. The Radboudumc has now developed a first model that allows healthcare professionals to inform their patients about what delayed care means to them. Could the Minister take this into account in the further development?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u534	Sure. In any case, I am speaking to the regional organisations on a weekly basis, where many hospitals are also represented. I will certainly ask about that and also see if that can be shared. Fortunately, there's a lot of sharing, so I'll definitely ask about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u535	Finally in the block of regular care that is postponed. That is what I would like to include in the mental health system. The Dutch Healthcare Authority reported that I thought that was rather shocking actually that 71,000 references to last year have not been made this year. I don't know what the date was for that number, but I think it was in the last month. So even before the second corona wave we're in now, 71,000 references to mental health care have not gone through. These are people who often need that very much. So my appeal to the cabinet is: don't forget to take mental health care with you in protecting regular care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u536	For the sake of time: I have taken that to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u537	Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u538	Moreover, I would like to say to Mr Jetten that damage to health is always taken into account by a doctor in the consideration of whether a planned event can be postponed. Maybe that'll help a little bit. Mr President, for the sake of time. I have answered a number of questions in the interruptions. I have had questions from Mrs Marijnissen about the appreciation of the care workers. We have already exchanged views on this in various debates. I can start that same debate again, but I'm also looking at time. I propose that next time I begin with the answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u539	Yes. I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u540	Then we can get all these things all the way out for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u541	Yes. And I know you're always short and to the point. Then the others can see how else they can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u542	But this may be very short, I can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u543	Yes, Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u544	I didn't ask a lot of questions tonight, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u545	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u546	That's why. I think this is an important point, and it is well known. The Minister is right about that. However, if we see now that my question is that hospitals are filling up, that we need everyone and that beds are empty now because there are too few staff and when we see that in care for the elderly, for example in nursing homes and at home care, caregivers simply have to go down because the workload is so high, colleagues are sick at home and there are just too few colleagues, I would like to call on the Cabinet to take a serious look at that appreciation here tonight. I know it has been said that a committee is going to work and that it has to study, but it is taking too long. We can't afford it. We have to do everything we can to keep working in care attractive and to make it different, and a decent, honest reward is just one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u547	We agree on this, but we always disagree on the content. Again the financial framework conditions, both in the budget, the bonus and in how you deal with secondary working conditions. We have, within the limited instruments that the cabinet has considered to do so through the bonus. I would like to say straight away to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen that postponing the window to the end of the year is a difficult one. By the way, of course, we want people to get it as soon as possible. I am also thinking of those other aspects, such as control. I would like to give an example of what people in hospitals and nursing homes are saying now. I think Mrs Marijnissen recognizes that about how people are sometimes treated now. I don't think that's motivating, either, with all the understanding for patients who need to be moved. Last Thursday I spoke to a nurse at the Green Heart Hospital who said: in March we got flowers, but now we get at his rather ugly words to our heads and sometimes even worse. So I think it's a mix of things. We are trying to assume our responsibilities in the short term, including in the financial sense, but also not to run away from the fact that there are also a number of issues in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u548	The fact that other things are important is absolutely true. But it is now a question of fair pay and a structural increase in wages, and I note that the cabinet simply does not want to do so. I believe that it is taking an irresponsible risk, because there is already a shortage of staff. That was already there for corona, that's all there is now and that's only gonna get bigger. But then, another specific question. We know that the scope available for the development of working conditions, the so-called "ova" in technical language, goes down compared to the estimate. That would really be the most absurd outcome, that we all think that we should appreciate our caregivers better, but that the space for that is going down compared to the estimate there was. Can the Minister at least promise that she will look into it, because that could not be the intention at least?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u549	Mr President, forgive me, but that oval is at least a space that has been created and which is also related to a budget that is included in the budget for healthcare purchases. This depends on the negotiation between healthcare providers and health insurers. The scope for this in the budget depends on economic growth, the economic figures. That space has been adjusted because the economy has been hit, but there is still room. The salaries do not go down, but less is possible. So it is still possible to do more, at least in relation to many other sectors in the public sector. I think that's right. I think we are right to do so for the health care people. Ultimately, it is up to employers and employees to agree that remuneration policy in primary and secondary working conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u550	Finally. It's so bad, because it's all so hollow what comes from the cabinet. They're so many fine words of appreciation, but when it comes to it, the cabinet just leaves caregivers in the cold. What do you mean less than that? It's what's at stake now. I believe that there is 1.7% room for manoeuvre and all improvements in working conditions need to be arranged. We both know that there will be even less than that to pay, but prices are rising more! I think the reality is that there will soon be, while everyone talks about appreciation for our caregivers and we need those people so much... Those people not only deserve it because they work hard, but the rest of the Netherlands also needs those caregivers, who are now too few. We can't afford it. So I would like to appeal to the cabinet again. Then do it not only because you want to appreciate the caregivers, but also because we are already seeing huge staff shortages. We can already see that in the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u551	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u552	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I understand you want to finish, but I didn't ask a lot of questions tonight. This is really a very important point and it just doesn't move. What good is that to caregivers? That's what I'm wondering.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u553	I want to have said this. I fully share Mrs Marijnissen's appeal that we should show that appreciation. At the same time, we have an agreement with each other that employers and employees will eventually agree on that remuneration. We are always talking about the salaries in the health care sector, but there are already 12 collective agreements in the care sector. Mr Wilders has also given examples of this, which you say: I think it is very good that people do it for that amount. But there are also functions in which people in similar professions think: well, that's quite nice; with my education I don't. So I think we should talk about the salaries in the healthcare sector in depth once, because this is a very short turn. And yet I insist that €1,000 in your account as a valuation initiated by the Chamber is a very large amount for a lot of people. Of course, I'd rather give someone a huge salary increase for years, but we're also dealing with a huge blow to the economy. We are also dealing with a public sector that is sometimes paid quite differently. We're gonna have to make choices with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u554	Speaking of the €1,000 net health bonus and my motion for a resolution, which I am very pleased with and which is now being implemented, the Minister is very quickly getting over the fact that it is not possible to extend that deadline, which ends on 29 October. I do not really understand that very well, because healthcare providers say that there is still a great deal of uncertainty as to who is and is not entitled to this net care bonus and that they would like to do so carefully. Minister Hugo de Jonge has explicitly called for it to be up to the healthcare providers themselves to select who does and who does not claim that bonus. But they have to do so within four weeks, while they are already heading for the second wave! I think it would be a very nice gesture if that application period could at least be extended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u555	There is a lot of room for the healthcare providers to see who they want to award this bonus. They're employers. We informed them well in advance. They are often organisations that are quite used to some administrative tasks, you might say. We've been trying to reduce the administrative burden for years. With this application we made it as simple as possible. The Court also insists that payments be made as soon as possible. In any case, the date of 29 October will make it possible to pay out a lot of people this year. Let me put it this way: I haven't had any signals. They're not known to me, at least they should be delayed. In general, the employers in the care sector are pretty good with the Ministry. But if Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen has the signals, I want to look at them, but I do not intend to leave the window open any longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u556	That is very strange, because it is precisely the unions and NOW'91 that indicate: it is still very unclear who is and who is not entitled to that bonus. I am also regularly written by healthcare providers on a daily basis who say: I would like to give my staff that bonus, but on the basis of that hand-out from the Ministry, I don't really know if they are entitled to it. The fact is, we're in that second wave now. The healthcare providers are already very busy collecting that wave and even scaling down the regular care. Doesn't the Minister just want to extend the application period? That would make it so much easier for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u557	The bonus must ultimately be paid to the workers. So if I extend the time limit for the employers, it will affect the employees. Those signals are not known to me. We made it as easy as we could. By the way, there is a "no, unless"; there is always a call for more space and the ability to make your own consideration. If the healthcare provider says "this person is entitled to that bonus," all you have to do is tick the box. So let me put it this way: if tomorrow the mailbox or the mailbox explodes completely of the signals, I am of course very willing to do so, but not in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u558	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u559	I come to my last question. That is the question about the sports package. Oh, no, for the sake of short, I would first like to say to Mrs Van Brenk that I sent a letter to the Chamber on personal protective equipment. We've done a stress test bitch on the stock. It is sufficient for almost all personal protective equipment. If you stress it very much, then it's not enough for the gloves sometime in 2021, so we're putting action on that. The guidelines of the RIVM have been translated by the profession, the sectors and the trade unions into a hand delivery to the employees, where: use pbm's preventively unless you say yourself that you do not want to do so on the basis of a professional consideration. I support that. I have also sent a letter on this to the Chamber, which I refer to briefly. Mr Heerma asked whether the sports package was adequate. There will be a letter; Mr Asscher asked for it. But the cabinet has made 135 million available: 90 million for the rental of sports accommodation, a guarantee capital. We also keep our finger on the pulse with the sector, especially in the light of what has changed today. Mr. Chairman. I want to end with the fact that it says "up to 17 years." Let me add this cry of hearts, also slept today by Erik Scherder: yes, there are restrictions; yes, we ask people to stay home as much as possible, but please keep moving.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u560	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u561	Mr. Chairman. I've got three motions. The first is about the staff, right now the bottleneck in the care, and the big problem of not going through the regular care. It is unbelievable that this has still not been resolved, because we in the Netherlands have a cabinet for that if it is right. I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Cabinet to urgently provide more care staff, e.g. by seducing people on a higher salary, by making it more attractive for part-time workers to make more hours, by allowing managers to jump in on the work floor, by mobilising the army, by allowing private clinics to jump in and by implementing the LNAZ plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-625]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u562	Then there's a motion on the catering business. I believe that anyone in the hospitality industry who abides by the rules should be able to stay open. A motion by Mr Krol on that point will hopefully bear my signature. But now a motion on my part to at least, although I will support Mr Krol's motion, to keep the restaurants open, as the RIVM also said. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the cabinet not to proceed to an overall closure of the catering industry but at least to keep the restaurants open,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-626]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u563	Finally, a motion on non-Western immigrants. It's ridiculous that the whole room is looking the other way. We must acknowledge that and the cabinet must act accordingly. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Professor Girbes, Head of the VUMC Ice Department in Amsterdam and Professor of Intensive Medicine, found that most of the corona patients in intensive care in the four major cities and in cities such as Gouda and Dordrecht are non-Western immigrants;]] [[noting that non-Western immigrants often do not comply with the applicable corona rules;]] [[noting that this has a significant impact on the availability of regular care;]] [[calls on the Government to recognise this problem, to appeal to non-Western immigrants and to maintain compliance with the rules in a targeted manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-627]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u564	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u565	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u566	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas RIVM figures show that the Netherlands is still in a lockdown mode for months if the number of infections is not reduced rapidly;]] [[calls on the government to draw up a new plan with a new roadmap to reduce the number of infections more quickly and to give the Netherlands a different perspective,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the new lockdown affects and threatens to last several sectors, such as sport, catering, events, culture and transport, and therefore requires additional support;]] [[calls on the Government to consider what additional measures should be taken, including possible:]] [[extension of the NOW scheme with remuneration of up to 90% linked to employment guarantee arrangements;]] [[new support packages for events, catering, culture and transport;]] [[for sports clubs a large remuneration of loss of income and compensation of fixed charges such as rent,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in order to control the corona virus, it is very important that people are quarantined in case of (possible) infection;]] [[noting that the Cabinet is presenting a quarantine package which does not yet include financial compensation in case of quarantine, but which still talks with the social partners to see how the burden can be shared fairly;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up plans to support workers who have to be quarantined and thereby lose their income, such as taxi drivers, parcel delivery workers and supermarket workers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-628]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-629]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-630]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u567	Mr. Chairman. While we were talking here, there was a big party going on in a tent on the square. This shows that we really still have a long way to go to deal with corona together. It's really a very nasty move towards all those entrepreneurs who are the victims of that. Finally, Mr President. The cabinet claims to have the same strategy, but it is not prepared to acknowledge that it should have been harder to intervene. If that is the interpretation of the containment strategy, the Cabinet has no support for it from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u568	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u569	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that insufficient intervention was taken when the exponential increase in the number of infections occurred at the end of the summer;]] [[noting that hospitals are now filling up with patients, it is too late to effectively contain the COVID-19 virus;]] [[considers that a predictable and effective use of measures is necessary to support society;]] [[points out that the fight against the COVID-19 virus should be directed towards reducing the number of infections,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the preventive use of protective materials is not yet the standard for caregivers throughout the care;]] [[Considers that it is unacceptable to allow caregivers to work unprotected, as there are enough protective materials available to all healthcare providers;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that preventive use of protective materials is the starting point in all healthcare sectors and to continue to actively point out to employers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the public contribution to labour cost development (ova) may be 1.5% lower than previously estimated, which puts considerable pressure on the pay area for care workers and thus also on collective bargaining;]] [[Considers that the second corona wave will once again attract care providers and that every effort should be made to make work in care more attractive in view of the growing staff shortage, and that it is particularly important for care providers to be able to count on a structural financial valuation;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with plans to regulate the structural financial valuation of caregivers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-631]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-632]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-633]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u570	Let's go! Let's go! Let's go!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u571	Nice! Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u572	Thank you, Mr President. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is still uncertainty among healthcare providers (employers and clients) as to which care workers are entitled to the net care bonus of €1,000;]] [[Whereas the application period of the healthcare bonus is relatively short, since the application requires careful assessment of the individual work situation during the first corona wave;]] [[noting that due to the lack of clarity several healthcare providers indicate that more time is needed for a careful application of the healthcare bonus;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the application period for the €1,000 net health bonus until 31 December 2020, not to delay the payment of applications submitted before 29 October 2020, and to actively communicate this to healthcare providers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-634]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u573	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you also to the rulers for their reply. I've got two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is desirable to prohibit the possession and use of both alcohol and soft drugs in public spaces between 8 p.m. and 7 p.m. in order to prevent the further spread of the corona virus;]] [[noting that there has been a discussion as to whether this prohibition is legally possible with regard to soft drugs;]] [[Whereas what is possible for a legal product, i.e. alcohol, should certainly also be possible for a product which is not legal but only tolerated;]] [[calls on the Government to urgently consider how, as part of the package of additional measures, the possession and use of soft drugs in the public area can also be prohibited between 8 p.m. and 7 p.m.,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that one of the general principles of the current corona measures is: "work at home, unless there is no other way";]] [[Whereas it is essential for the well-being of clients that mental health care remains open to physical treatment in addition to or instead of digital contacts;]] [[calls on the Government to promote that, even as contamination increases, physical treatments remain possible in mental health care and the desired form of contact is carefully chosen between caregiver and client,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van der Staaij, Pieter Heerma and Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-635]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-636]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u574	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u575	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u576	Mr. Chairman. I've got two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Observed that previous estimates on the maximum scenario for COVID-19 diagnostics are outdated and have recently been revised upwards to 14%;]] [[noting that several European countries have created a higher test capacity per capita than the Netherlands;]] [[considers that a short-term economical approach is not an intelligent long-term approach;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts to increase the maximum test capacity compared to the demand forecast of RIVM with the premise that overcapacity is being created,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-637]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u577	Mr. Chairman. It's a long motion, but it's a complicated subject. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the current reduction of regular care due to the increasing number of COVID-19 patients poses a high risk to public health;]] [[Considering that the spread of regular care is very important in order to provide patients with the right care in a timely manner;]] [[considers that the patient whose treatment is delayed due to scaling should be given the opportunity to be treated elsewhere outside his own hospital;]] [[considers that the best regional and patient-to-patient assessment should be carried out;]] [[considers that the current obstacles to the financing of care should be removed, allowing better distribution of regular care;]] [[Calls on the Government, together with the NZa, IGJ, insurers and involved field parties, to develop an approach to the spread of patients within regular care;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the current financial obstacles to patient spread as long as there is a scaling-down,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-638]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u578	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have one question about testing policy. There will be a Service Testing, but there is also a coordinator who has to bring the different chains together. I would like to hear from the Minister that there will be one service with all the components, so the purchasing, the carrying out of the tests, the lab capacity. I want all that to be with one person who has perseverance. If that doesn't happen, I'm afraid we're gonna keep muddying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u579	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u580	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas day-to-day service providers are in great uncertainty, as they are often unable to operate at full power and therefore lose revenue, while the costs continue;]] [[Whereas day-to-day spending is of great importance to clients and their carers;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with municipalities, to come up with a financial solution for daily spending,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the right of visit is included in the Temporary Law measures covid-19;]] [[Whereas this law is of a temporary nature and it is important to anchor the right of visit;]] [[believes that the closure of nursing homes such as during the first wave should never happen again;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how visitation rights can be enshrined in existing legislation under the same conditions as in the Emergency Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-639]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-640]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u581	Mr. Chairman. I would like another clarification from Minister De Jonge. In his speech on the Roadmap, he said: we want to return to R1. Later, in debate with me, he indicated that he also sends on R0.8. Maybe he can explain these two. I would also like to ask Minister De Jonge if it is clear to him, or if he has received the signals I am also getting, that separate sites for daily spending do not always have good facilities and that they would like to invest in ventilation systems, but that they simply do not have the money. I'd like to hear that from him. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u582	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u583	Two motions, Madam President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet has announced that the catering industry is going into lockdown, with the exception of pick-up and delivery;]] [[Whereas several catering operators, in particular many restaurants, have managed to receive their guests coronaproof;]] [[calls on the Government to exclude from the lockdown those catering operators who comply with the rules,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a drama occurred during the first corona wave in nursing and nursing homes;]] [[Whereas the elderly were kept indoors instead of getting fresh air;]] [[Whereas caregivers in nursing homes were told that personal protective equipment was not necessary;]] [[calls on the government to apologize to the victims and their relatives for the mistakes that have led to victims in nursing homes and nursing homes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-641]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-642]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u584	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u585	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u586	Madam President. We have a partial lockdown. We need to brace ourselves. It's gonna be spicy. Of course, it comes down to behavior change and stop partying like the one here on the Square. But it also comes down to caring for each other and organisations that help us to take good care of each other. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet has started the national campaign Attention for each other to support everyone during this difficult period and to pay attention to people in a vulnerable position;]] [[Whereas the new corona measures have a major impact on people's social well-being and feelings of loneliness;]] [[Whereas there is a growing need for practical assistance and support, e.g. if the healthcare network fails or if the quarantine measures are to be complied with;]] [[Considering that national voluntary organisations and churches with initiatives such as #not only play an important role in mitigating the social and practical consequences of this crisis;]] [[calls on the Government to consult national voluntary organisations (such as Present, Humanitas and Sunflowers) in order to improve their ability to cope with and mitigate the social and practical consequences of the corona measures in the coming difficult period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Jetten, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Klaver and Mr Van Brenn.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-643]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u587	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u588	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u589	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna start soon. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that establishments in the meat industry worldwide have shown fireplaces for the coronavirus;]] [[noting that one infection within a company can quickly lead to cluster contamination of hundreds of people at once;]] [[having noted that the Chamber called for national direction in countering the further spread of the coronavirus in the meat industry;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a national plan to combat the corona virus in the meat industry, aimed at preventing and detecting new fireplaces in good time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government Roadmap provides an overview of the measures to be taken by level of risk;]] [[Considering that measures fall under the heading "domestic travel' from "no restrictions' below the first level of risk, to "limited travel' below the intermediate levels, to "avoid unnecessary travel at home and abroad' at the fifth and last level of risk;]] [[Whereas the lack of a copy of "foreign travel" gives the impression that foreign travel could not be a problem even under the fourth level of risk (very serious);]] [[calls on the Government to include in the Roadmap the heading "foreign travel' and to include measures per level of risk,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Esch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-644]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Esch and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-645]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u590	And my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that aviation is still excluded from all measures;]] [[calls on the Government to impose a temporary flight ban with the exception of repatriation flights,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Esch and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-646]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u591	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u592	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that older people and vulnerable people in particular are at risk in relation to COVID-19;]] [[calls on the government to examine the scenario of specifically protecting the elderly and vulnerable and giving the rest of society more room for manoeuvre,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a risk that regular care should be scaled down as a result of COOVID-19;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether a special coronahospital could be a solution to accommodate a possible second wave of COVID-19 patients and thereby reduce the impact on regular care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-647]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-648]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u593	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan, on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u594	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the rulers for the answer. I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more than 60% of corona infections occur in the home setting;]] [[calls on the Government to create a toolkit and campaign to prevent indoor infection transmission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the coronadashboard in opposition to international dashboards lacks important parameters;]] [[Whereas it is possible to extend the dashboard parameters;]] [[calls on the government to include the number of COVID-19 patients released from hospital and ic in the dashboard to monitor the success of treatment and recovery,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the corona crisis has more severe economic and medical consequences for people with lower socio-economic status, people in contact professions or people in the old urban areas;]] [[calls on the government to use targeted interventions to remove this inequality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[says Mohamed, Fatima, Roelof, Klaasje and Lilian, or any other Dutchman, are equally entitled to good and loving care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-649]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-650]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-651]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-652]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u595	Finally, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[rejects the discriminatory and polarising statements of MP Wilders,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-653]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u596	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u597	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u598	Mr. Chairman. As a result of the debate, I have two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in the last ten years there has been structural cuts in care, that hospitals have been closed and tens of thousands of nurses, doctors and others are on the sidelines, but may well want to return to care, especially now that the need is so high;]] [[noting that regular care is scaled down as a result of the increase in the number of corona infections;]] [[Calls on the Cabinet to examine the impact of the healthcare cuts over the past 10 years on the overall care capacity;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to investigate the opening of special corona hospitals and to consider closed hospitals;]] [[invites the Cabinet also to investigate ways in which qualified health care workers left care in recent years can return to care to cope with the corona crisis and allow regular care to proceed as far as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that lockdowns cause enormous economic, social, psychological and medical damage;]] [[noting that lockdowns also require a heavy toll on people who are not particularly vulnerable to the coronavirus, but whose health situation or economic situation is extremely affected by the corona measures;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to investigate target-specific policies aimed at protecting the weaker, with measures for the rest of society being scaled down in a responsible manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-654]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-655]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u599	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u600	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber. 31 motions have been tabled. Let me take a look at the Prime Minister. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u601	I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u602	Mr. Chairman. I still have a question to answer about how quickly additional support for sectors can be available. This is now foreseen at a time of 10 days. That's pretty soon. We really need to look at this very carefully, because it is not just about the catering industry, but also about the cultural sector, amateur sport, the event sector and possibly other sectors. In the meantime, the current support package is breathing. So a sector like the hospitality industry has a direct right to support. He doesn't have to wait for that. That's immediate. So it's not like nothing's gonna happen. But again, we're gonna do our very best. If we can do it sooner, it'll be sooner. I don't want to make a big commitment right now, but we're gonna do our best. That was the outstanding question at that point. Then I'll discuss a few motions. I am against the motion in part No. 626 by Mr Wilders. I advise against this motion. There is now a real need for an overall closure, in line with the opinion of the OMT. The OMT advises not to exclude all the restaurants now. But we're going to see if, in the long run, after those four weeks, if there are again situations where there have to be restrictions in the catering industry, the restaurants can be excluded, according to the thought that lives at the OMT. Then the motion to part No. 627. We address anyone who does not comply with the rules, without regard to person or origin. Maintaining the target specific to non-Western immigrants is discriminatory. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 627. The motion in part No. 629. We are now going to analyse to what extent additional measures are needed. But this motion contains a number of guiding statements on how it should be completed. The motion could therefore be held until the Troika's letter arrives. But if the motion is not apprehended, then I have to make the motion in part no. 629 dissuade. On the motion in part No. 635 is what I'm saying. It was the intention of the cabinet to stop the take-out function of coffeeshops at the same time as the alcohol sales. A ban on possession and use of soft drugs after eight o'clock in the evening is not included in the designation. This has to do with the special nature of the policy of tolerance for soft drugs, but I can well imagine, certainly in the current special circumstances, Mr van der Staaij's question and motion. Despite this, there is of course also talk that this affects the prosecution policy of the independent Public Prosecutor. So I'm making a small reservation on the result. I don't know how it's technically possible, and I don't know for sure whether it's possible in advance. The Minister for Justice and Security will deal with it in writing, but with that remark I leave the opinion of this motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 641 by Mr Krol. The exclusion of the catering industry from the lockdown is extremely unwise, as this does not reduce the number of infections sufficiently. So the motion in part No. 641 by Mr Krol, I advise you. The motion in part No. 646 of the Animal Party requests a temporary flight ban. It's not necessarily about flying, it's about traveling to orange areas. That is what the cabinet wants to discourage, regardless of the mode of transport. Air connections remain important for necessary travel. This means that a no-flying ban is not effective and I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 646. The motion in part No. 651. We have income policies against inequality. We also have an accompanying package of 1.4 billion, aimed at vulnerable people in the labour market. So we've been doing a lot of things. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 651. On the motion in part No. 652 we will not judge. I think that's a question for the Chamber itself. By the way, of course, it is a very nice motion. The motion in part No. 653 about Mr Wilders also seems to me to be an appeal to the Chamber itself. We shall therefore not give an opinion on the motion for a resolution on item No. 653. Finally, the motion in part No. 655. We don't want a two-way society. We've said that before. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 655.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u603	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u604	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the motion in part No. 628 by Mr Asscher. It calls for a new roadmap and a new plan. I would advise against this motion, because what is intended can certainly be achieved with this road map and with this plan. The motion in part No. Mr Asscher's 630 calls for plans to support people in quarantine. This is actually a support of our commitment. In doing so, I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber, albeit those plans are not so easy. So it is no guarantee that it will actually succeed, but the stakes are sure. The motion in part No. 631 is a "pronouncing," so it actually doesn't require an opinion from the cabinet. But I think it is a fairly accurate description of what we are doing, which is to control the reduction of the number of infections. The motion in part No. Mr Klaver's 637 calls on the government to make efforts to increase the maximum test capacity compared to the RIVM demand forecast on the basis that overcapacity is being created. That has been the starting point from the beginning. You see how stubborn reality is, because you don't really control the question. Whether you can create excess capacity in relation to demand depends on implementation. But as far as the effort is concerned, I agree wholeheartedly. That leaves the judgment to the Chamber. The motion of 50PLUS, on a solution for daily spending, calls on the government, in consultation with municipalities, to come up with a financial solution for daily spending.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u605	What number is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u606	That's the motion in part No. 639. Excuse me. I'm not gonna recommend that motion. But that is precisely because I agree with Mrs Van Brenk that it is important that daily spending continues. As you give too easy financial compensation for empty spaces and thus also give you financial compensation if the daily spending does not go ahead, you see that there is not enough incentive to allow the daily spending to continue. So I am going to discourage this motion, precisely because I want daily spending to continue as much as possible and as ordinary as possible. The motion in part No. Mrs Van Brenk's 640 calls on the government to consider whether the right to visit can be enshrined in legislation. I'm going to ask Mrs. Van Brenk to hold that motion. I think that, on the basis of the passage of international conventions and other legislation, that is, the sum of them, you could say that there is a right of visit. In this very special case, it is regulated in the temporary law by Mrs Van Brenn's amendment. As long as the covid crisis applies, there's nothing to worry about. Before that period, I would think: it is already sufficiently anchored in international treaties and the right to a family life, in combination with the Wkkgz. But I'd like to check that out for you. That is why I would like to ask you to hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u607	Yes, Mrs. Van Brenk? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u608	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u609	The motion in part No. Mr Krol's 642 calls for an apology to the victims and their families for the mistakes that led to victims in nursing homes and nursing homes. We have had that debate quite often. We have said of this: this is such an enormous simplification of reality; it does not do justice to the grief and reality of this spring. So I'm not going to recommend that motion. The motion in part No. Mr Segers asked for consultations with national voluntary organisations. I leave the judgment to the Chamber on that. The motion in part No. 644 of the Animal Party asks for a national plan of action to combat the coronavirus in the meat industry. That's not gonna be a separate plan. But I have explained to you what we are doing on that point. I have also indicated to you that I am happy to answer the questions as you have asked them. So I'm going to dissuade this motion. The motion in part No. 645 asks for foreign travel to be added to the Roadmap. The Prime Minister replied that we will continue to operate with the current travel advice. That would also dissuade this motion. The motion in part No. 647 Van Haga asks for scenarios to be investigated to protect the elderly and vulnerable, giving the rest of society more room for manoeuvre. This has been discussed on a number of occasions in the whole context of Mr Van Haga's efforts. I strongly advise against that. I think that's just unwise. That's not the way society should be. The motion in part No. 649 from DENK, Mr Azarkan, asked the government to create a toolkit and a campaign to prevent indoor infection transmission. If I may be a little generous in the interpretation of what a toolkit is, I would like to leave the judgement to the Chamber in this case. I think it is wise to see if we can do additional things in communication that make people very handy and practical how to do it at home. The motion in part No. 650 from DENK asks for the dashboard to be expanded. I'm going to dissuade that motion, because I want to have on that dashboard numbers that actually provide steering information. So not everything you wanted to know about the virus before, but numbers to send in. That's what the dashboard's for. You can't do that with these numbers. Then I have two more questions. One of those questions is from Mrs Van Brenn. She says, "You say you're going at one, but you're going at 0.8; how about that? The 1 is the level of infection, the level of risk. You actually want all regions to be scaled down to level one. That's the first thing you want. To get there, you're gonna need that 0.8 on the R. From the current situation, you want to have a reproduction factor of 0.8 for some time to arrive as soon as possible with all regions at risk level 1. Mr. Klaver is asking about the Service Testing. Is everything under one roof? A lot of it. The service is controlled by one person. The purchase and execution of the contract, the execution of the transfer of lab streams and all that kind of stuff, everything you want to do, you do there. You have a firm lead on that and then you get a performance mandate to actually operate with perseverance. But there will always be cooperation with different partners, such as RIVM and the GGD. In addition, you must always organise the chain management. So you have a solid Service Testing for everything you actually want to shape from one hand and one pipe in the execution. In addition, you also have to steer on that chain direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u610	More tests have been purchased, but then we were told that the GGD was not ready to carry out those tests. Those are the things you want to avoid. You know that GGDs like to turn on labs that are close to them, as they did at the beginning, rather than more large-scale. That's the kind of thing you want to avoid in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u611	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u612	That is why I stress this. I do not want a total structural change and do not say that the regional approach does not work, because in normal times it works very well, but not now. You're setting up a new service. Precisely when it comes to testing, such a new service can immediately indicate what needs to be done. For this, no consultation is needed with the GGDs; direct indication! I would like the Minister to come back to the Chamber to work this out, because this is really crucial. I don't want that to be separate. Having enough tests but then depending on someone else whether they're going to be taken, that's really the wrong approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u613	We'll still be on each other's backs. This is a very complex chain. We're not gonna reorganise all the G.D.D.s. We're not going to reorganise the RIVM either. That is not what Mr Klaver is asking for. We're gonna set up the Service Testing for everything you want to organize from one hand and one lead. In addition, we have the National Coordination Structure Test capacity, which ensures that the implementation service also does what is attuned to RIVM and the GGD's. Because you stay dependent on each other with multiple parties in one chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u614	Finally, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u615	Finally, because it is too late to discuss this completely. I am concerned when we are constantly talking about that chain and the consultation. We're in a crisis. This means that there should be central management and that there should be mandates for organisations and regions that normally have a lot of own control, but now simply have to carry out. I really want to encourage the Minister to do that. Centralise it as much as possible and do as little coordination, coordination and all that kind of shit as possible. No time for poldering. Action!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u616	That's exactly what we're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u617	Mrs. Van Brenk, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u618	I'd get another reaction to the manifesto. We're tired of it. I emailed that to your PA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u619	That's what the Minister of Medical Care is gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u620	That would indeed answer the Minister for Medical Care, if it is right. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u621	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u622	Okay. I had also asked about the daily spending that had no money for the ventilation systems.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u623	In general, I find that very difficult to answer, because daily spending is really incredibly high quality, funded from the municipalities and financed from the Wlz. I think you have signals here with an explicit back number. Then it might be good to send it outside the broadcast in our direction. Then I can see what's going on there, because I really can't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u624	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u625	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u626	Thank you, Mr President. We've gone looking for a writing titled "We're tired of it." Then we did indeed come up with a letter from Wijkverzorgundig Nederland, revoking the trust in the OMT. It's about using mouth and nose masks. I also refer to the letter I sent. All professional associations, trade unions and the sector have said: "In all regions we are now on serious or vigilant. Then it's about preventive use, unless." I have indicated that I agree with that. I hope that will at least satisfy their concerns. That is also described in detail in the letter. Mr President, a number of motions for resolutions. I have a question on the first motion by Mr Wilders, on item No. 625. There are a number of things I'd like to take over: more attractive to work more hours, managers on the work floor, the army mobilize that also happens right now in Utrecht in a top-regional facility, for which I'm very grateful to Defense and private clinics. I have one question. Mr Wilders says to seduce with a higher salary. In my view, we do so within the scope of the oval, but I know that Mr Wilders has made other statements in other debates. If I may take it in such a way that we try to do this as much as possible with the system of the cabinet, then I can give the motion judgment Chamber. If Mr Wilders says 'but I actually mean extra structural money', I must, referring to previous debates, advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u627	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u628	Okay. Then I come to Mrs Marijnissen's motion on...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u629	Yes, others would like to know what interpretation is given to the motion in the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u630	The way it says it. But I'm not here to answer questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u631	Okay. Well, then it's up to everyone to get there...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u632	Then I will at least clarify it. Then I'll choose "don't catch up if I'm in doubt." I'm sorry, because I like to build bridges. But then I choose the cautious variant and, unfortunately, I have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u633	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u634	By the way, I would point out that I would like to do a number of elements of that motion anyway. Then the motion to part No. 632 by Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver on pbm's. It is a request to the government that preventive use be the starting point in all healthcare sectors. Which means I have to dissuade her, because that's not up to the government. It is ultimately up to science, translated by the professions, the trade unions and the sectors. What I do, and what I have been encouraged to do by the unions, is to discuss this with employers. The unions have told me that they have signals that people in the workplace do not get the stuff despite all the guidelines and handouts. I find these signals worrying, so I have agreed with the trade unions that we will discuss this together with employers. But it is not for the government to decide how a professional uses personal protective equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u635	In the meantime, I think everyone finally agrees that it is wise to use them preventively, unless. The question, therefore, is that the Cabinet and the Chamber pronounce this once again and also call upon employers to do so, because there will still be those signals which the Minister will receive too............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That is why we have tabled this motion in order to underline that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u636	I'm really willing to do anything. I've said that I agree with it and that I support it. We ran the stock stress tests. However, I do not think it is the role of the government to say how the guidelines should be translated by professionals. For the rest, I am willing to do this in all expressions, but not from that formal role. I shall now come to the motion by Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver on item No. 663 over the oval. I would advise against this, with reference to previous debates. Then there is Mrs Van Kooten's motion to item No. 634. I indicated in the debate that I am sticking to the proposed approach, so I advise against it. The motion by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Jetten, that motion in part No. 636, on working at home unless there is no other way and the ggz: Judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 638 by Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher and Mrs Marijnissen, together with the NZa and the IGJ, call for the distribution of care. Judgment Room. Then the motion to part No. 648 by Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u637	From Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u638	From Haga, yes. That's what I said if it's okay, Mr. Chairman. Otherwise, I apologize. That motion by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet is something I do not recommend. I had an exchange of views in the debate on the separate coronah hospitals and the role of the field in them. The motion in part No. 654 by Mr Baudet and Mr Van Haga, I advise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u639	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-8.u640	The motions tabled will be put to the vote tomorrow. I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport, the Minister for Medical Care, the Members of Parliament, everyone who has followed this debate, the messengers and the clerks.
