ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u1	It is now the subject of joint consideration of legislative proposals 35418, Declaration that there is reason to consider a proposal to change the Constitution to include a provision on a electoral college elected by non-residents for the election of the First Chamber of the States General, and 35419, Declaration that there is reason to consider a proposal to change the Constitutional provision on changes in the Constitution (Review Constitutional Review Procedure). I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am primarily going to talk about the proposal concerning the electoral college. With this proposal, the cabinet wants to amend our Constitution so that people of Dutch nationality who live abroad can now vote for the Upper House. Because the cabinet wants to hold on to kicked elections, a so-called electoral college should be set up, because there is no question of residents of a Dutch province. Typically a proposal derived from the elite, cosmopolitan world view of the D66 minister: no matter where you live, the residence of a nation state is not the starting point, but the global ideal of the world citizen. However, the Minister ignores the current system of our Constitution with regard to residence as the basis for the election of the Provincial States and thus indirectly of the Upper Chamber. The Minister now chooses to maintain the system of kicked-out elections for the First Chamber, while she could also have used better alternatives, a directly elected First Chamber or, even better, the abolition of the First Chamber. Unfortunately, again, no real democratic renewal and influence for our citizens. Instead, this bill messes with the importance of the residence of the voters of the Netherlands residing in our country. And that residence is important. Those living in a Dutch province have to deal with the consequences of policy choices in that province, such as the nuisance of megawind parks for the implementation of the Regional Energy Strategy and the Climate Agreement, with the housing of status holders in the municipalities, with the placement of asylum seekers' centres, with higher increases in the vehicle tax for the financing of left-wing hobbies, et cetera, et cetera. However, anyone who chooses to live abroad, for example in a Flemish villa, such as Frans Timmermans, or enjoying the Swiss sense of life, such as Jan Pronk, does not suffer from these miserable measures that Dutch residents have to deal with. Those who consciously choose to live abroad should not complain about not having a vote in a Dutch province and therefore not in the Upper House. The authors of the present Constitution consciously chose the basis of residence in 1983. Neither in the explanatory statement, nor during the examination in the Lower House, nor in the written preparation in this Chamber, the Minister was able to make clear what, in the current circumstances, the difference and the need for a different balance to be struck between the right to vote for the First Chamber by Dutch citizens abroad. The Council of State also criticised this. This is not sufficiently substantiated with just a reference to the coalition agreement. In the following further explanation, the Minister confines himself to a statement that it is unbalanced and refers to a request for inventory from 2014. A clear answer to the why-question is not in it. Moreover, it is noteworthy that the Minister states in a response to the Council of State that, because of the fact that the First Chamber Committee on the Interior has adopted a copy of a letter for notification on 5 March 2019, the submission of this bill has been sufficiently prepared. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Acknowledgment of a letter submitted to the Committee is not an implicit agreement by the Upper Chamber. Does this mean that in future we will have to consult the cabinet in writing on every document received, otherwise the Minister will be able to draw the conclusion 'who does not speak up'? Mr. Chairman. The written procedure shows that the Minister has no idea how many persons of Dutch nationality reside abroad. A clear record of it shall not be kept. It would be estimated that there are about 640,000 voters. These will not only be expats, but also remigrated Turks and Moroccans, for example. A significant proportion of them will also have dual nationality, which entails the necessary risks in the implementation of this legislative proposal. It would not be unthinkable, for example, that in Turkey or Morocco votes should be recruited among Dutch voters to get an Islamic party in the Senate. In the Lower House, the Minister gave all the space to give dual nationality. I quote: 'Nederlands with a dual nationality also have Dutch nationality by the nature of the case. This category of Dutch citizens is therefore equally eligible for the right to vote for the electoral college of Dutch nationals abroad, as is the right to vote for the Provincial States or the electoral college in the Caribbean public bodies.' As far as PVV is concerned, people of dual nationality in the Netherlands should not have the right to vote or stand as a candidate in order to avoid the appearance of double loyalty in public administration. Our House members Wilders and Bosma filed an initiative law last year to amend the Constitution to this effect. In line with the initiative proposal, it is also undesirable to allow double-nationals in the electoral college. I shall therefore put forward a motion to counter that. Mr. Chairman. In the written round, our group asked the Minister how the nomination for membership of the electoral college would be arranged and whether a minimum number of declarations of support would be required, as in the provincial elections. Which voters will then have to provide a declaration of support, as there is no link with a constituency with people abroad? The Minister does this with the reaction that they should be electoral candidates living outside the Netherlands, but that it still needs to be further regulated in the implementing legislation. The question remains whether there is still a level playing field with regard to parties in the province, which are bound by their constituency. In addition, such a declaration of support also needs to be physically signed at the town hall. This question is essential for the feasibility of the law. Can the Minister at least clarify that? Furthermore, the question is whether this amendment of the constitution really solves the imbalance raised by the Minister. In the Lower House, the Minister stated that this proposal is "to do justice to the fact that all Dutch people should be able to have influence over the States-General, who ultimately represent all Dutch people." However, the Dutch resident in Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten are excluded from this law, according to the minister because they have their own elections there and would otherwise be given double voting rights. Moreover, the representative bodies of the islands are already involved in the drafting of national laws. "Involvement in the formation" is, however, something other than influence on the adoption or rejection of laws in the Upper Chamber. The Minister is therefore not consistent in this respect. Moreover, the Dutch in the Caribbean Islands are excluded, but residents of, for example, Turkey with a Dutch and a Turkish nationality of the minister may exercise double the right to vote by voting in Turkey on Erdogan and for the Netherlands on Erdogan's long arm. That makes this law intrinsically crooked. Finally, Mr President. With regard to this law, information was requested from the Council of State on the voting value for the electoral college. In the reply, the Minister had promised to forward this to the Chamber. According to the website of the Council of State, information was established on 30 September last, but has not yet been published online. In the end, we did not receive this information until late yesterday afternoon by e-mail. There has been hardly any time for proper study. At a first quick reading, however, I note that the Council of State, in its conclusions on the present constitutional change, doubts whether there is any reason to reconsider the nature of the election of the First Chamber in a fundamental sense now because of the granting of voting rights to Dutch citizens outside the Netherlands, also because, according to the Section, it is a relatively small number of voters. This raises the question of whether we can come to a careful settlement of the legislative proposal in this way today. Mr. Chairman. Clearly, the PVV will not support this bill. Our group can support the other legislative proposal, the Rethinking Constitutional Review Procedure. Mr. Chairman. So far in the first term. The motion to be tabled concerns the prevention of a multiple nationality for members of an electoral college elected by non-residents for the election of the First Chamber of the States General. The President shall: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Bezaan, Mr Van Strien and Mr Faber-van de Klashorst proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister indicated that the Dutch of dual nationality were also eligible for the right to vote for this electoral college;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for political ministers to have multiple nationalities;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures in the further legislative process to prevent a multiple nationality for members of a electoral college elected by non-residents for the election of the First Chamber of the States General,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35418-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. Today we are dealing with two legislative proposals in combination. I'll start with the bill. Non-residents elected electoral college for the election of the First Chamber. At present there is no possibility for the Dutch to vote for the First Chamber of the States-General, the so-called non-residents, living abroad. The present bill will make this possible in due course. The voting process will be adapted so that the Dutch who live abroad can exercise their voting rights more easily, also in relation to the election of the Upper House. They can already participate in the elections of the members of the House of Representatives and of the Members of the European Parliament. This bill is therefore an extension of their right to vote. The 50PLUS Group considers this to be a good development and is pleased that non-residents are given the opportunity to vote for a new electoral college, which can then actively vote for the election of the First Chamber of the States General, together with Provincial States and the electoral colleges in the Caribbean Netherlands. 50PLUS has advocated the extension of the right to vote for Dutch citizens abroad in all its electoral programmes. My group will therefore be delighted to vote in favour of this proposal. My group still has a few questions for the Minister. A resident shall vote on a candidate for the Provincial States in view of the policies that this candidate Member State proposes in his own province. With this the resident has no influence on the final choice that this member of the State will make with regard to the elections to the Upper House. So he has no right to vote as a non-resident on a separate electorate. Can the Minister explain again why, in her view, there is no unequal treatment and right to vote between residents and non-residents? Can it also include in this reply the party discipline which often applies to Member States, which reduces rather than reduces the discrepancy between residents and non-residents? 50PLUS likes to hear from the minister or after the law is introduced, extra attention will also be paid to the information that should increase the involvement of non-residents. Indeed, in order for a non-resident to come to an informed choice, it is precisely the provision of information that is essential. Does the Minister agree with this view? If so, how does it see how this information should be provided? Then there is the second proposal, on the review of the constitutional review procedure. The aim of this proposal is to clarify the existing constitutional revision and to speed up the completion of the examination of a constitutional revision, thus significantly reducing its duration. In concrete terms, this would mean that the Lower House, which is elected after the publication of the Declaration Act, would consider the proposal at second reading. If this new House of Representatives does not take a decision on this matter, the intention is that the constitutional proposal will automatically lapse. In the reply, the Minister gives her views on the question of the Party for Animals as to what the concrete reason for coming to this bill has been. I quote: 'The government does consider it very undesirable for the government and/or parliament to postpone the second reading for the reason that a "beneficiary" composition of a next House of Representatives is provided for'. My group believes that this cannot be an underlying reason for bringing forward a legislative proposal for this. The electorate ultimately determines the number of seats and thus influences the composition of the House of Representatives and the government. Does the Minister share our opinion and, if not, why not? Article 9.29 of the Rules of Procedure of the Second Chamber of the States-General provides for a decision to be taken as a matter of urgency on a proposal at second reading. What is the Minister's sense of urgency? Is this emergency also enforceable? Can it be ensured at all times that the deliberate advance of a constitutional revision does not occur?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u5	Let me come back to the previous point. Mrs Baay indicated that she does not think it is a reason that a bill can be pushed forward indefinitely, because the composition of the Chamber does not like it. This could mean that something is hanging over the market for a very long time, above the political market, just as long as there is something pleasurable in the composition of one of the Chambers. That can never be the intention of legislation, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u6	Then you probably didn't understand me correctly. On the contrary, I believe that it should not be possible for a legislative proposal to be moved forward, only in view of the composition of the Chamber in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u7	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u8	This was my contribution. I've shortened this a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u9	Thank you, Mrs Baay. I call Mr Kox, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I saw a video on the internet: if you don't put on one of those things but two, then you're closed and you can still eat and talk. I'll send it. It's very interesting. The creativity of our Dutch people knows no boundaries. So much for the masks. Mr. Chairman. With elections in sight, it is always busy times for the Constitution; after all, we have agreed on a system in which constitutional changes can only take place if there is an election of the House of Representatives. Even now, we see that the hustle and bustle is increasing. We will soon be receiving two legislative initiatives: the initiative legislative proposal for the corrective referendum, and the initiative legislative proposal to clarify Article 1. We are getting proposals on the basis of the state committee parliamentary system: an important proposal on the introduction of the return right for this Chamber and a role of the united assembly in constitutional changes. And, of course, the cabinet is also working on a bill to change the election of this Chamber. I have already said this to the Minister in committee: that seems to me to be such a proposal that you should just put it back in your back pocket, because that is not a glorious future; so why continue with it? And the two proposals before us today. All in all, that is quite a lot, and I welcome the fact that this Chamber, which nevertheless attaches itself to a special position when it comes to paying attention to our Constitution, is considering it today, even though the two legislative proposals before us are not of a revolutionary nature. Nevertheless, it is amendments to the Constitution which, in the opinion of my group, and fortunately of many other groups, should in any case be dealt with in plenary. The first legislative proposal concerns a proposal to review the constitutional review procedure. In my group's view, it is a good thing that our Constitution has been drawn up in such a way as to avoid the possibility of lightly amending the Constitution. I recently looked at Russia, the largest country in the world, with great surprise, which is simply able to change the Constitution far and wide in ten days. You'd say fantastic that those kinds of revolutions are still possible. But frankly, my conservative heart is going to beat a little harder, and I think: well, that's not good for Russia; it's not good that it can do that. It is very good that we are taking the time to do so in the Netherlands. If you want to change the Constitution, you can. Our Constitution has not been poured into concrete; what you are changing cannot be restored by the system we have. However, the proposal before us is a sensible one, because it says that it cannot be rushed to change the Constitution, but it cannot wait indefinitely to amend the Constitution, even though agreement has already been reached on it at first reading. This simple proposal, which says "if a proposal was adopted at first reading, then the next elected House of Representatives must take a decision on it; if not, it will disappear," I find in all its simplicity a wonderful example of beautiful and effective legislation. My group will therefore be happy to support this. This is more difficult with regard to the second legislative proposal. That bill aims to establish an electoral college elected by non-residents for the election of the Upper Chamber. The underlying thought... I was not ready as colleague Van Hattem, who thought: what a foul plan of this cosmopolitan minister of D66. I did not quite understand the argument either, but in the end it was mainly people in Turkey and Morocco who were going to vote for an Islamic party, and that is not exactly the direction of this minister and her party, I think. But I hadn't thought so hard. I thought: if there are Dutch people who are not allowed to vote now and if you can give them the right to vote, that is basically something you should encourage. The question is, however, whether it is sufficiently thought-out in the proposal as it is now being presented. My group has questions about this. These questions are mainly prompted by the fact that both the State Commission and the Council of State are extremely reluctant about this constitutional change. The Minister says that her proposal is in line with the views of the State Commission. Now I think that this minister has always been creative to point out certain events. After all, the motion of censure once adopted here was also a support for its policy. But the state committee simply says very clearly: nothing changes to the election of the Supreme Court. That doesn't include a word of Spanish. So I do not understand why the Minister can draw any arguments from that. I'd like her explanation on that. The Council of State says this is a very thinly motivated bill. Since it is an amendment to the Constitution, I think you should be very reluctant, especially as a Chamber of Review, to say: yes, go ahead. And again, the idea that people who have a Dutch passport should be able to vote as much as possible, I think is a good idea. But I don't think it's a good idea to rush into it this way. The government says that the main reason for this amendment to the Constitution is an agreement in the government agreement. The coalition agreement is important for the government, but for the parliament, and certainly for this Chamber, the coalition agreement is not so important. It doesn't bind us in any way. That is also laid down in the report of the State Committee. We need to see if this proposal is a sensible one. We got a letter yesterday. Fortunately, Mr Ganzevoort had already read it, but I haven't read it yet. Of course, it is not necessary to send us such a large piece so soon in advance. I think this indicates that it is still far from clear what we are actually going to do, how these non-residents can vote for the election of the First Chamber. The first proposal has been agreed on this is broad support here, and the second proposal has not yet been considered sufficiently. My suggestion to the Minister would be to say: I will take that back to see if I can improve the matter first. Otherwise it reminds me a little of a proposal that we had here years ago to deconstitutionalise the mayor. That was as such something that was carried by almost the entire Chamber, but everyone thought that the Minister already had another bill in the back pocket, which immediately said: if you approve this, we will do it this way. Now I also have the idea that the Minister has an idea of how that electoral college should be elected, but I do not think we know that yet. In such cases, I think entirely in the spirit of the Constitution: slow down, not too fast, not revolutionary steps if that is what this is all about. I will give the Minister the opportunity to consider taking back the second bill before proceeding with the procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u11	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I call Mr Schalk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If the Constitution is at stake, then this Chamber must rise. Even if there is a legislative proposal before us that can obtain full consent, we still have a duty to deal with this amendment in plenary if possible. That is why my group is very much prepared to talk about two legislative proposals, the first of which cannot just count on the support of the SGP Group. In short, this legislative proposal is about creating the possibility of adjusting the voting process in such a way that Dutch residents living abroad can exercise their right to vote more easily, even in relation to the election of the First Chamber. The group of the SGP can understand the fact that Dutch people living abroad want to show their connection with their home country. They already have that possibility, particularly when it comes to voting on the parliament which is directly elected, as for the House of Representatives. That could be based on having a passport, you might say. You do not have to live in the Netherlands, but you can have residence in another country. In itself very special, but well, this is about your Dutch citizenship. However, we do not have provincial citizenship. However, people have an influence on their provincial government when they live in the province. Everyone has that, of course, when it comes to local government. Today is about the election of the First Chamber. That goes according to the principle of kicked-out elections. The elected representatives of the people in the province are the electors for the Upper Chamber. Because the Netherlands also has overseas territories, it is understandable that the Dutch living there can vote through a separate electoral college that also produces electors. Back to the provincial elections. Those are the direct elections. Anyone living in a province can participate in this, but it is perfectly logical that a resident living outside the province cannot vote in another province. Of course, that also applies if you live outside the Netherlands. Now it seems logical to set up a separate electoral college outside the Netherlands, but that is in fact contrary to our own system. This is clear from the report of the State Committee on Parliament's system. I would very much like to refer to page 310 and quote: "The number of voters can be increased by having the Senate elected by the members of the municipal councils." That would be another proposal. "There would be over 7,000 voters. However, it would also mean that foreign voters voting for the city council would have indirect influence on the composition of the Upper House. When the Constitution was amended to give the inhabitants of the Caribbean Netherlands influence on the composition of the First Chamber, it was clearly stated that the Constitutionalist did not find it acceptable for foreigners to have influence on the composition of the First Chamber. Therefore, this is not a passable road alone." Thus the state committee. Mr. Chairman. My group therefore has the following question. Why does the cabinet now choose to set up an electoral college for non-residents, which is in fact contrary to the constitutional intention that was established at the time as a leading body?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u13	I agree with the SGP that this proposal is contrary to the system, but I believe that constitutional changes are intended precisely to adapt a system. In that sense, any legislative proposal is a change in the current system. I don't understand your quote. It's pretty complicated to ask a SGP guy when he quotes from a book, but I do. If I understand your quote correctly, then the key point of the quotation is that foreigners should not be given the right to vote for the States General. That's why the city council isn't elected. But in the proposal that the cabinet is now presenting to us, foreigners do not get the right to vote for the States-General, but those who are Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u14	No. The main line of the quote I read says that foreign voters who have the right to vote for the city council are there; they now have the right to vote on that route, if the municipal council members would also elect the First Chamber, they would also have an influence on the Upper Chamber. That has not proved to be a passable road. Then you should not do so in the provincial elections towards the election of the First Chamber by attaching an electoral college to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u15	But the Committee's reasoning is that people who do not have Dutch nationality, but are allowed to vote in municipal councils, called foreigners, should not influence the election of the States General.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u16	Because they're a foreigner.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u17	Because they're a foreigner. If you had municipal councils elected to the First Chamber, foreigners would have indirect influence on the election of the States General. But the proposal before us does not give foreigners the right to vote in the First Chamber. It only gives Dutch people who live abroad the right to vote. So that is not comparable to the quote you are quoting, because that is about foreigners in the Netherlands, while it is about Dutch people abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u18	Sorry, but I think this is becoming a semantic discussion: foreigners in the Netherlands or Dutch abroad. I am concerned about what is happening now, namely that an electoral college is being set up for those who live abroad, perhaps with a Dutch passport. They should be able to have influence on the Upper Chamber through a separate electoral college. This is similar to the other example of the fact that, in elections to the city council, you have a city council member who lives abroad, who can then choose the First Chamber. We don't want that. Then it is strange if you let someone abroad somehow influence what is actually reserved for the electors of the Provincial States, in my humble opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u19	Mr Van der Burg, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u20	And so last, Mr. Chairman, I know. Sometimes words do matter and so it's not just a semantic discussion. The idea that you do not want foreigners to have influence on the States-General stems, among other things, from the fact that the States-General deals with issues such as war and peace. It is not possible for foreigners to exercise their right to vote before the States-General to influence the question of whether war is being waged with the country of their nationality. That is one of the reasons behind the fact that foreigners do not have the right to vote for the States-General, and they should not therefore be given that indirectly in this proposal. This proposal, however, is not a semantic discussion, and it is not a semantic discussion, but is about Dutch people in the foreign world and not about foreigners in the Netherlands, to use a false term. The Dutch in the foreign world currently have a right to vote when it comes to the House of Representatives. And the only thing that happens here is that we give them the same rights for the Supreme Court. This is not, therefore, a question of giving foreigners the right to vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u21	I agree with Mr Van der Burg on that last point, but I do not agree with him on the first, because they do have an influence on the Upper House, actually through the route of the Provincial States, which have been designated to elect that Upper Chamber. The fact that it is arranged differently in the Caribbean because they are also Dutch parts of the country, I find something quite different than that Dutch people living abroad now need a separate electoral college to be able to influence this. But apparently we don't agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u22	I would like to refer to the fact that Mr Schalk is trying to push away Dutch nationality as a sort of semantic issue. I would like to follow up on Mr Van der Burg's interruption. Dutch nationality is of course very important, whether you live in the Netherlands or abroad. So it's a very logical idea.That's what this bill is all about.That's why this Dutchmanship means that you can vote for the First Chamber. The quote you gave is about foreigners in the Netherlands in the municipal elections. That is a very different matter. On behalf of D66, therefore, I would like to repeat Mr Van der Burg's question: how can you put it all together? Because you're, as it were, wasting Dutch nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u23	If I have radiated that, of course, that was absolutely not my intention. I have already indicated to Mr van der Burg that, of course, it was not my intention to turn it into a semantic discussion. And to you, I say I'm not trying to push it away. I think there was misunderstanding between us; at least that's how I just experienced it. I believe that people who live abroad, Dutch people, who have no residence in a province, will now have an influence on the First Chamber by a special route, while the First Chamber is elected by the electors of Provincial States, where I actually grant the Caribbean the same status.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u24	But you base this position on the state committee. You then come up with a quote about municipal elections, where people who do not have Dutch nationality do have the right to vote, provided they live in the Netherlands for five years. That is a very different matter from what we are talking about today. This is a constitutional change so that Dutch citizens with Dutch nationality abroad can influence the First Chamber composition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u25	I understand that Mr Dittrich says that, but the quote I have taken from the State Committee is on page 309 in the paragraph Election by the members of the Provincial States. In that part, it is precisely talked about that it has been considered that municipal council members should also elect the Upper House. So I don't think it can be said that the quote I used has anything to do with the subject. The state committee presents the issue in this way. That is why my question was: why does the cabinet now choose to set up an electoral college for non-residents, which is in fact contrary to the constitutional intention that was established at the time as a leading body? What is the basis for a change of facts? How can it be that this restriction has been established in order to enable the Caribbean to be elected and that it is now set aside? Mr. Chairman. There's another pressing question. Last Tuesday there was a discussion with the Minister in our Chamber about the second part of the cabinet's reaction to the report of the State Committee. In this letter, the cabinet expressed its opinion on the election of the First Chamber, as follows: I quote again, but now from the Minister's letter: "The voters in that election are only the members of Provincial States and the members of the electoral colleges in Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba. It is also true that the weight of the vote in the election of the First Chamber is quite different from that of other elections. It is therefore not obvious to change the electoral system before that election." That letter is dated 1 July 2020 and at the moment the cabinet is already working on this law. That's not right, is it? You cannot submit a letter with your right hand stating that you are not going to change the electoral system while sending a change to the electoral system with your left hand. Can the Minister explain that? Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, we are also discussing another law, which I can say something positive about. The members of the SGP Group have taken note of the Government's proposal to amend the Constitution on the revision procedure. For far too long there has been a lack of clarity as to how a proposal for second reading should be presented and within what time period the proposal should be dealt with. The questions my group had on this bill were adequately dealt with in the written round. It remains for me to draw a conclusion, on which I would like to receive a response from the Minister. I have just interrupted Mrs Baay on this point. Fortunately, I got back from her that she shares with me the conclusion I'm trying to draw right now. This amendment to the Constitution has the important effect of not waiting endlessly for a second reading, for example until the composition of the House of Representatives gives a favourable view of the relevant constitutional article. Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u26	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I call Mr Ganzevoort on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u27	Mr. Chairman. It is a good practice to say at least a few words about a constitutional revision, because I say that, in the case of the Kingdom's Statute after the foundation of our rule of law, there is only one thing that is most fundamental. We must not let that go unnoticed. I can be brief on the proposal to amend the review procedure itself. My group supports this change, because it will keep us closer to the spirit of the review procedure and cut off the political route of delay. I agree that any political movement will now regret it and then welcome it, but this proposal will make the royal road the standard. Much more difficult is the proposal to set up an electoral college for non-residents, so that they too can influence the composition of the Upper Chamber. The idea behind this revision can count on a fairly broad support, but the problem lies in its demarcation and in its elaboration. This effect has yet to be established when amending the Election Act, but the government has already made a substantial advance on this by addressing the issue of voting value in detail in the explanatory memorandum. Even though the government is not at all in favour of this constitutional revision, it is clear that it is best to opt for a model in which the voting value is determined only by the number of votes cast among non-residents, and by the number of residents. Since the law is also important here for the meaning of the law, we have to deal with it, even though this is not yet on the agenda. That is why I ask the Minister to begin with what is actually the status of her reflections on the desired model. Does it share our view that the debate on this matter should be conducted when amending the Kieswet, and that this debate cannot in any way be weighed down by what it has now noted in the explanatory memorandum to this legal procedure? Does it share the view that if the Court approves this constitutional reform at first reading, it will in no way imply that any model of voting value calculation already enjoys the support of this Chamber? In other words, does she want to acknowledge that it would have been more pure if she had kept that out of law enforcement? In the event that the Minister does not want to acknowledge this, and so she attaches more weight to her words about the voting value, we will have to have the debate. I am referring here to the opinion of the Council of State that we received in a copy last night. Knowing that we are having this debate today, the Minister could have taken this Chamber a little more seriously by sending it directly to her when she received it last week. That would have helped in our preparation time. I know the Minister attaches great importance to her time of preparation for the answers, but it would be nice if she also took our time of preparation seriously. In substance, it's not very new. I had some time left last night, so I was able to read the advice. It doesn't answer all the questions. A few calculations are offered, but not all imaginable calculations. In other words, there's still a few questions to ask. By the way, questions have already been asked about this in several rounds. In fact, the government does not seem sensitive to the argument that the voting values of residents and non-residents are uneven as a result of this approach. That is strange, because the motive for the whole change is precisely that the government wants to solve an imbalance. By using a completely different system, the influence of different citizens becomes completely and fundamentally different. With residents everyone who votes has the same influence on the composition of the First Chamber, because the voting value corrects for the population of a province. But that will not be the case with non-residents. If the voting value is based on the number of non-residents, the influence of the individual vote becomes completely different from that of the voting value based on the number of votes cast. For example, if you assume that non-choosers count as residents, it means that every individual vote of a resident has a double value compared to a vote of a non-resident. That is not what the non-choosers count for the voting value. Does the Minister agree with us that it is undesirable to introduce a methodology which means that the individual influence of a part of the electorate is half less than that of another part of the electorate? In general terms, does the Minister share our view that, in line with Article 4 of the Constitution, a methodology should be chosen which materially results in each vote of a resident or not having a similar effect on the composition of the First Chamber? That could be very simple. I'm not a mathematician. My father was, but I wasn't. Some things you don't inherit, some things you don't inherit. For example, it could be very easy to calculate a correction factor and apply it to the voting value. Is the Minister prepared to work on this in the elaboration of the Election Act? The second point that remains on the table is that of demarcation. More specifically, the exclusion of Dutch residents living in one of the Caribbean Kingdom countries. My group does not really follow the government's argument. The government states in the reply that excluding the Dutch who live there is not disproportionate, firstly because they otherwise affect both the Dutch parliament and the national parliament, secondly because the Dutch legislation does not apply in the Caribbean countries and in particular affects those Dutch people who have lived in the Netherlands for ten years or more in the past. But that's a little short on the bend. If you compare it with non-residents of dual nationality living elsewhere, they may have an influence on two parliaments, but that would not apply to our own citizens of the Kingdom. That would be very strange, because that would put our citizens of the Kingdom at a disadvantage compared to Dutch citizens of dual nationality. If the government really believes in the ten-year criterion, why is it not applied to everyone, including non-residents elsewhere? After all, Dutch legislation affects all these other countries much less than it affects Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. If the idea is that the Dutch legislation does not affect the Kingdom countries, it is also not difficult for them to choose two parliaments instead of one, because these parliaments have a carefully defined jurisdiction. The only overlap is that of the national laws, but that is so few that it seems disproportionate to exclude the whole group on that basis. In short, the argument why Kingdom citizens in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom should not vote for the Dutch parliament and other Dutch non-residents should, is inconsistent and unconvincing. I shall return to the Statute for the Kingdom. Article 11 I have already said that this is still under our Constitution, which states that proposals for changes to the Constitution, laying down provisions on matters of the Kingdom, Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin are affected. We're discussing a Constitutional change today. In view of our debate, this affects the affairs of the Kingdom. That is why I am curious whether the government sees this as the case, whether it has already consulted with the Kingdom countries or whether it intends at least to do so. Because that's where it has to be arranged. Mr President, I will conclude. It would greatly shorten today's debate if the Minister declared that the debate on voting values is premature and that the government's considerations on this issue are not yet relevant. We will come a little further when the Minister undertakes to propose an elaboration of the methodology, which has the material effect of requiring an individual voice of residents and non-residents to work about as strongly in the composition of the First Chamber. That leaves only the question of the Caribbean Kingdom countries. We would like to give the Minister a chance to explain again why their exclusion is not disproportionate. If she does not succeed, we would like to see an adaptation of the Kieswet which solves this new imbalance between two groups of non-residents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u28	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. I call Mr Dittrich on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're discussing two legislative proposals today. I can be very brief on the first legislative proposal on the revision of the Constitution. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats wholeheartedly supports this. We think it's good that that's gonna be taken care of. We will therefore vote in favour of the legislative proposal. So my contribution today is more about the proposal to set up an electoral college for non-resident Dutch citizens. As regards the number of Dutch residents living outside the Netherlands, estimates vary from 600,000 to sometimes up to 1 million. I was one of them. Many of those Dutch feel really Dutch and are, even at a distance, also really connected to the Netherlands. You can see them as ambassadors, because if the Netherlands gets into the news at some point, they will be the first to be addressed and asked for information. They have an emotional bond and it was not fully recognised by law. As a Dutch citizen living outside the Netherlands, you can vote for the Lower House, the European Parliament, but not through the kicked system for the Upper Chamber. That was not possible, because you were not registered in a Dutch province. This democratic deficit has led to many displeasure among Dutch people abroad. In this century, the people, the Dutch have become much more mobile, companies work more internationally, national borders pay for interest, people fall in love with a partner from abroad. These are all developments, but the law remained restrictive. When I look at the opinion of the Council of State, the Council of State commented that there was little social attention to this issue and actually wondered what the need for this bill was. I believe that this argument by the Council of State is not correct, because Dutch people outside the Netherlands have been working on this since 2010, I can tell you, very busy. For example, as co-founder of the board of D66, New York Division, I was allowed to chair a meeting organized by the New York divisions of the VVD, the Labour Party, D66 and the CDA. At that meeting in The Netherland Club, in 2011, several members of parliament were also present, including the current President, Mrs Arib. They have listened to the grievances of the masses of the Dutch. At that meeting, it helped to raise awareness that something must be done for Dutch people, not residents living abroad. In 2015, Eelco Keij, working in New York, tabled a motion at the D66 Congress in the Netherlands on voting rights for the First Chamber. That motion was accepted. But with Dutch people abroad, the discussions of the past few years have also really brought some kind of awareness that they need to defend their interests better and more structured towards politics in The Hague. That is why a foundation was founded in 2019, the Dutch Foundation Outside the Netherlands, and members of different political parties are on the board of these organisations. I mention alongside D66 Forum for Democracy, the Labour Party, the VVD, GroenLinks, the CDA, 50PLUS, the SP and the Christian Union. All those people on that board are for this bill. The bill we are discussing today is going to change something about voting for the First Chamber, and that is a good thing. This bill will make it possible as a Dutchman to influence the composition of the Upper House through your vote. You can vote for a candidate from an electoral college, who then elects the First Chamber, along with the Provincial States and the Caribbean electoral colleges. The right to vote and to stand as a candidate for the new electoral college is granted only to those Dutch who also have the right to vote and stand as a candidate for the election of the Lower House, and these are the Dutch who have lived in the Netherlands for at least ten years. Mr. Chairman. This is a proposal to amend the Constitution. The rest is actually regulated by the implementing law. So, unlike the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, when I have to say that the questions that are being asked concern us too, we have chosen precisely not to go into them in this context; we would like to discuss that when we deal with the Election Act. But I found the questions very interesting. In short, Mr President, the D66 Group will also be happy to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u30	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u31	Mr. Chairman. This subject has my warm interest, because I have lived abroad for several years, including in Hong Kong and London. I noticed how difficult it is to vote from abroad. Mr Dittrich has already mentioned Eelco Keij. I'm familiar with that, too. I talked to him extensively about this last summer, when he was in the Netherlands. That is someone who from New York is very committed to helping the Dutch voters worldwide. It is very good that he does, and I support that. But also many friends and acquaintances who live abroad regularly remind me how difficult it is to vote during Dutch elections. This is, of course, something that should have been taken care of a long time ago. In fact, it is scandalous that this is not happening until now. I even got stories from people who had sent their voices in an envelope to the Dutch consulate and a few days later the same voice in an open envelope received back in the mail. Such practices cannot, of course, be the intention. This process must therefore also be improved in practice. Mr Dittrich mentioned that, according to official estimates, more than 1 million Dutch people live abroad. Soon you will be talking about 5% or 6% of the Dutch population. Do not underestimate how well many of these people follow Dutch politics over the internet. Many of them have fled their own country, the Netherlands, even because of the political situation that smothers their own initiative and dynamism and has driven entrepreneurial and ambitious people out of our own country for decades. It's a true brain drain. Of course, it's a very different time. Where immigrants used to have no idea what was happening in the Netherlands, I now get, in real time, a message from someone who reminds me of a broadcast by Lubach, or I'll just say what. They are therefore much more online and therefore involved in the country. That involvement is pretty big, too. In addition, Dutch people living outside the Netherlands, of course, are also an important part of the Dutch economy, which, as we know, is very open and must have international trade and international contacts. It is therefore entirely logical that they should be allowed to vote on who is in the First Chamber, because that First Chamber adopts laws that also directly affect the lives of the Dutch outside the Netherlands. Moreover, countries such as Portugal, France and Italy have even provided separate chambers in their parliaments which can only be occupied by citizens living abroad. This bill aims to add, as it were, a thirteenth province to the elections to the European Championships, which, as we know, are elected by the Provincial States. The EK is then chosen by the twelve Provincial States and, as it were, a thirteenth, virtual province of the Dutch living abroad. That seems to us to be a good way of doing that. Mr. Chairman. There are a few practical things. I do not know how many of you here in the room in 2019 have gained personal experience with the electoral college of the BES Islands, which also determines a small part of the First Chamber seats and can be of interest to the rest seats. The latter was the reason I went into that at the time. Unfortunately, due to certain machinations, the remaining seat ended up in the SGP, but that is a different story. That was a hilarious, kafkaesque situation. In order to be able to participate in this electoral college on the BES islands, a small deposit of a few hundred dollars had to be deposited; I don't remember it anymore at Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba. Otherwise, you couldn't compete. It took me many days to get a call back or not to get a call back until after a week I found out that they didn't have a bank account at all on certain islands, that that amount couldn't be paid and that as a new party you couldn't participate at all. These are, of course, very annoying practical problems. It was therefore virtually impossible to participate in the electoral college on all islands. I am happy to give this point of improvement to the Minister. I would therefore ask the Minister to organize these practical matters in particular. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. We are in principle in favour of this proposal, but we would like assurances from the Minister that in practice the implementation will also be given the necessary attention and that the matter will be better regulated than at present at the electoral college for the BES islands. The devil is in the detail. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u32	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u33	I hear Mr Otten speak very positively about this bill, but he also says that some Dutch people have fled the country because of the political climate here. Isn't it rather double to say that people are fleeing this country in order to escape the measures in this country, but we then give them influence on those measures to make things worse here, for example? I am referring, for example, to the D66 expats who are in New York but who are now able to impose a Climate Agreement on the Dutch in the countries. Is that what Mr Otten is trying to make possible again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u34	Well, I think you see it very simplistic after all. I think there are also a lot of Dutch people abroad who... I don't remember exactly, but I think D66 was the biggest party in the foreign election and Forum was the second, if I'm not mistaken. So that's a diverse company. Those people are very involved in the Dutch course of events. At the time, in the 1990s, I too fled this country, because I found a terrible stagnation here. So I can imagine people saying either I go into politics or I leave. I left then. And then I came back and I thought, "Well, I'm gonna do something about it myself." But I can tell Mr van de PVV, Van Hattem, that the Dutch I know abroad, are generally the more enterprising, action-oriented people who also want to do something about it. There are, of course, a lot of them from the Foreign Office and you name it. That may be more the D66s you're referring to, but there are also a lot of people who make a huge contribution, including through their work on the Dutch economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u35	Nor do I deny that they contribute and are involved, but it is important, as you yourself say, that they flee the country and say that they do not want anything to do with the political situation in this country. They will not then be burdened by the measures taken by the cabinet, but they want to take part in the decision. Is it not consistent, then, to say that I am fleeing this country, I am going to live in another country, and I am picking up the lusts and bearing the burden of that country, rather than taking away the lusts of that country? That's actually an inconsistent attitude, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u36	No, there are also a lot of people in the Netherlands in inner Emigrant, as it is so beautifully called. They say, as it were, that they are completely shut down from politics, and I can imagine that. They don't want anything to do with it anymore, and they live their own lives. Of course, it is not up to the PVV or anyone else, or us, to decide who has the right to vote or not. If there are a million of our fellow countrymen living overseas or in other countries, I think they have the same right to vote as people living here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u37	Mr. Van Hattem, third?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u38	Finally. The point is that they are no longer resident in a Dutch province. They therefore no longer have anything to do with Dutch provinces, or with provincial policy, while a lot is happening in those provinces. I mentioned the increases in vehicle taxes and regional energy strategies. All this misery is being brought to the attention of the residents of those provinces, and these people are closing down. Then you also have to draw the consequence of shutting down the influence of those provinces. That is a trade-off which Mr Otten seems to have qualified differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u39	Yeah, we're a little more open-minded in that than the PVV Group, that's right. Mr Van Hattem has noted this very well. If there are no further questions, I would like to give the floor to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u40	I think I am going to do that, but you can always stand up for the presidency in the next round. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Bikker on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The voting process is adapted so that Dutch people on Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius, Saba and abroad can exercise their right to vote more easily, also in relation to the election of the First Chamber. It's so simple in the coalition agreement. The first part, the adaptation of the voting process for Dutch people on the BES islands, has now been carefully designed, well designed with the design of the Caribbean Netherlands electoral colleges. And now the second part of that plan: the Dutch abroad, or the non-residents. The Minister proposes a new electoral college. Its further development follows in a law which should precede the second round of discussion of this bill, the second reading. The ChristianUnion Group is sympathetic to the idea that Dutch people abroad, i.e. non-residents, also majority in the stepped-up elections to the First Chamber. This can already be done before the House of Representatives and the European Parliament; direct elections. But last night, by informing the Council of State which the Minister sent us, it became clear that there would still be some water flowing through the IJssel River, which is just the river at my residence, until there was a useful and balanced draft implementing law that meets the requirements of Article 4 of the Constitution, which states that all Dutch people have the right to elect their representatives in parliament, states and municipal councils, to Article 53 of the Constitution, with the principle of proportional representation, and to Article 55 of the Constitution, the method of election of the First Chamber. I read the opinion of the Council of State in such a way that the options explored do not provide a perfect solution and that it calls for vigilance not to opt for solutions that have more disadvantages than the current situation, with all the good intentions that there are. This raises an important question for the government for the continuation of this process. She will have to reflect on the basic idea of the kicked-out election of the First Chamber. How are all non-residents represented in the votes cast? Or is it well argued and considered why an appropriate, different regime is chosen here? The basic idea is that all inhabitants of a province count in determining the voting value because members of states vote on behalf of all the inhabitants of the province and not only on behalf of the voters who stood up. In determining the voting value for the members of the electoral college for Dutch people abroad, this is a complex principle. And I do miss the Minister's reflection on that. Why is there no energy in practical handles in the time that follows, for example better registration? This applies especially to the electoral register, which is also known by Dutch citizens abroad, as well as to the non-residents register. And then, of course, it can be considered which register might be most appropriate for a solution to the impact law, or for a different solution to be chosen. But leaving it as it is would be unwise. I believe that, if the Minister wishes to give this bill a fruitful follow-up, he cannot ignore getting these registers in order. In short, what action does the Minister take to ensure that the special right under Article 4 of the Constitution, which allows all Dutch citizens to elect their parliament, can actually succeed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u42	I have listened very carefully to Mrs Bikker and I have heard the word 'continue' twice. I have heard you say "in the follow-up to this bill" twice. Isn't it true that this discussion, an interesting discussion of the content of electoral values, about the number of people in the electoral college and so on, indeed in the follow-up to amendments to, for example, the Election Act, and not so much today, now, at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u43	For example, we have also had this reasoning in the deconstitutionalisation of the mayor. I remember that very well. And that is indeed a path that has been chosen with each other. Only, what you need to know, and for sure, is: is the sequel a passable road? Because if you have a noble intention but the sequel turns out to be an impassable road, then it is smarter to bend the route earlier. Well, I think, read the opinion of the Council of State, that it hasn't become impossible, but complicated. I would like to make that quite clear here, because we are considering an amendment to the Constitution, and we are doing so today if we were to accept this legislative proposal, and we are also claiming that there is a need for a workable implementation of the follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u44	For the sake of clarification, do you make it one dependent on the other, or do you see it more as "we are going to go into this in more detail" and would you like to put it for consideration now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u45	It's a fair question. In fact, and this will follow in the course of my speech, there are three considerations for me which I would like to say: now the Minister will have to work on, but know that this is very important for my group at second reading in the weighting. And then that execution, but also the basic principle of how that stepped-up election for the First Chamber is achieved and if you make a deviation... And that's basically what you do if you fill out this principle about non-residents differently than what we do with the Provincial States. You will have to argue that very purely, because this is about the Constitution. So I'm gonna give the Minister a little warning. She already knew she had homework, but I would have liked to have seen that in the letter that came yesterday, some of that awareness and reflection had already echoed, in addition to the fact that the Council of State had written this down and that it was difficult and difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u46	Your third, Mr. Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u47	Then I conclude that we will go into that and discuss it after the government makes proposals on implementing legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u48	Well, that is just too cheerful and optimistic, although I like cheerful and optimistic, as you know, but I would like the Minister to show that she has a solid sense of the complex task ahead. Because if we're just going optimistically on the road without petrol in the engine, it's gonna be a short ride.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u49	I'm gonna have to think about that. Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u50	If I could just connect to that... Mr Bikker says: I give a cautious warning to the Minister. It is always wise to warn; a warned minister counts for two. But since we are talking about the Constitution, a cautious warning sounds a little too euphemistic. You referred earlier to the deconstitutionalisation of the mayor. We all know that with a third of this Chamber you will not be able to complete the second reading so well, at least for its creators. So does this mean that, if it is not properly arranged, the Christian Union will not give its support to this bill at second reading? And if it is not more honest to say to the Minister: keep an eye on it; with a third part of this Chamber, the end story is the end story, and above all we should not go through with constitutional changes that are going to die in second reading. Hence my appeal to the Minister: take that back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u51	And then comes around the corner to see that the Christian Union's group still weighs a little more heavily on the idea that all Dutch people should have the right to vote in favour of electing Parliament, both First and Second Chambers, and that I do not see the Council of State closing the door. Fortunately, we do not need to explain how the road to constitutional reform is going. She can dream of it, I'm guessing, because it's your hobby as Home Secretary to dream of the Constitution, of course. I'll tell you how the Christian Union is in it. On the other hand, there is homework that really needs to be made, but it can still be made. It didn't turn out to be impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u52	Mr Bikker says that the Council of State is also not closing the door. That's exactly what it is. When you say "I don't throw the door in the lock," you didn't say "you come in mostly." There is also a profit warning. I have listed at the beginning of my term what must be done. We have to go a long way before the forthcoming elections, and then, thanks to the constitutional change that we are going to adopt today, we have to make improvements to our constitution in the next four years of major and important renovations. And if we then go about remodeling which we already know will not make it to the end, that also takes time from the other constructions. So it's not entirely noncommittal: you've been warned, but go ahead. I think we should be honest with the government: with these proposals you may have problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u53	But I would like to put something on the other side of that. I say that the importance of the non-residents, but the Dutch, weighs for me. That is why I think it is wonderful that this Minister wants to get on with it, but I had hoped, on the basis of the opinion of the Council of State, for a little more reflection from the cabinet on what follow-up that should be. I can also imagine, but I am a simple lawyer and you are undoubtedly much more, Mr President, but Mr Kox also said that the Council of State may not have explored all the options. It's possible. Actually, I think that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u54	Mr. Kox, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u55	I think this is a very sneaky way for Mrs Bikker to say that I am much older and much uglier than she is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u56	I would never say that, you know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u57	You're absolutely right about that. Anyway, it's a difference of weighting. I have also said that it is a bit strange to say about the idea of giving Dutch people who have a Dutch passport the right to vote: that is simply not allowed. That's a little weird, but you have to do it the right way. I would say: first do a first reading that works well before starting the second reading. So I did not throw the door in the lock, but I said that the door is now so close that the Minister should have done her job properly at first reading. We disagree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u58	If I understand correctly, I know what Mrs Bikker is saying. The real questions surrounding the impact are still coming. And if they hadn't been in the pieces, we wouldn't have talked about that. Then all we'd have had was that constitutional change. But they are there and so it makes sense that the Chamber of Parliament may not even at the second reading to which Mr Kox rightly refers indicate a number of frameworks with criteria for the elaboration in formal legislation, the Kieswet et cetera. Do I understand Mrs. Bikker right? Because then we can focus the debate together on the question of what are the criteria that will be important in the development process. She mentioned a few. Are we on the same page?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u59	Of course, it would have helped if we had read this a little earlier or if this discussion had been later. But if a piece is there, you have to do it right. Even then, my point would have been that at the second reading of this bill it should be very clear what the effect is, because that is actually the interpretation of that new constitutional article. I think that's important. In this Chamber, in which we uphold the Constitution, too, it must be clear how you interpret that article of the Constitution. Well, then it's good to give out boxes already. The Council of State is doing some sort of extra homework on the 100-year history of the way this Chamber is elected, but that does not mean that it will be so forever and ever. In fact, I believe that will be different someday, but we'll see about that. Anyway, that was a statement of faith, and now we are going back to the beautiful Constitution. As has been said, the Christian Union Group welcomes the idea of the government agreement, but the opinion of the Council of State means homework for the minister. I would very much like to hear the Minister's appreciation and the follow-up route she has in mind on this point. Because without a clear roadmap for the follow-up to this review, the legislative proposal and its elaboration will be an unmistakable adventure. The draft law should therefore be ready for the second reading as far as the Christian Union group is concerned. I look forward to the answer on this point. For the rest, I would like to emphasise two more things. Firstly, for the Christian Union Group, an important requirement is that the principle of proportional representation be fully reflected in the size of the electoral college. In addition, I would like to join with Mr Ganzevoort's good questions on the position of residents with a dual nationality, including the Dutch in the other countries of our Kingdom. I would like to underline his request to consult these countries on the basis of the Statute. With regard to the proposal on the revision procedure for the Constitution, the Christian Union Group is positive, without homework and that sort of thing. However, I still regret the fact that this legislative proposal, which the Halsema initiative proposal on constitutional review has never gone through the whole procedure, really takes into account. As far as I am concerned, that is exactly the example of why it is important that this bill be adopted quickly. There are more examples to give. The Lower House has rightly pointed the finger when asking for an opinion from the Council of State, even at second reading. I can only underline that. Mr. Chairman. The Constitution is dear to us all. There is actually little more beautiful than talking about the Constitution in the Knight's Room on a rainy autumn day. For example, the rights of all Dutch people are expressed and the responsibilities that come with them to fill in citizenship, for example by continuing to vote, even if you live abroad. That is underlined today. I therefore look forward to the continuation of this debate and the Minister's answers in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u60	I would like to ask Mrs Bikker the following. She's talking about the effect. There are now two proposals for amending the Constitution, but it is said at the electoral college that it is extremely dependent on the outcome. It has rightly been said that this is now the case, because it was part of the documents. I would like to make sure that it is already said that, in order to use your words, the Chamber provides a framework. There is no framework now. There are suggestions for a framework, but there may be a later moment when this Chamber really gives the framework. I would therefore urge Mrs Bikker to do so when the second reading comes, that there should be an impact proposal and that the framework should be further developed with that draft. My question is therefore whether Mrs Bikker agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u61	Thank you for this good question. This is indeed not the time to frame it all, but it is the time to name what is really important in that effect, I think. Now only giving carte blanche, waving at the Minister and then being very critical in the second round is not the way I would like to shape a constitutional revision. I do not think any of my colleagues want that, so everyone gives what he or she thinks is important as they see fit and colour. So for me, that's three. That is really the way to deal with the basic idea: how do you choose this Chamber and how do you deal with non-residents who do not have a territorial background, but simply live worldwide? Two is proportional representation and three is that homework and reflection really need to be made right and understand how we weigh the different fundamental rights that apply here, those three articles that I mentioned, so that we have clearly indicated for the new legislative proposal, including the new constitutional article, what the colour of that is. I actually think this is the homework that we as a senate have to do in this beautiful place on this rainy day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u62	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I call Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u63	Thank you, Mr President. The pleasant thing about being the last speaker is that you can join previous speakers. I was very impressed by Mrs Bikker's speech. I can tell you that our group can support her homework mission and all the questions she has asked. There has been talk of imbalance by the Minister. Mr Dittrich and, by the way, Mr Otten have once again said that it is a bit strange that so many people, so many Dutch abroad, I heard something of 1 million; I didn't know there were so many of them couldn't say who in the First Chamber is going to determine politics. That is an imbalance, but my question is whether we are going to introduce a second imbalance with the system that is now being proposed. If I choose the Provincial States and choose a particular party that I would very much like to support, because it wants to achieve something in the province, then it may well be that that is a different political party than if I could directly elect an electorate to the Supreme Court. So you could say that I will actually have less right to vote in that area than that non-resident, because he actually chooses someone who can choose them immediately for the sake of the national interest and how the electorate thinks about it. If you create this imbalance, my question is: if you are still trying to remove all the imbalances from the system, shouldn't you have thought about a direct election of the First Chamber? Because then it's all solved. That was my question. Does the Minister see this imbalance? Could you say that there is actually some kind of unequal right to vote? Do you think that's justifiable? Mr. Chairman. There has been so much talk about this bill, that I am going to leave it to these questions at the moment. I would also like to discuss the second draft with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u64	I was just triggered by that remark about the province. I asked many people in the previous provincial elections if they remember who they voted for in the province of North Holland or in Friesland. Hardly anyone could answer that, because those Provincial State elections are de facto already First Chamber elections. You may remember who you voted for, because you are in politics, but a lot of people simply don't know who was the leader of the Party for Animals or any other party, in Utrecht or so, because they still vote nationwide. That purely provincial politics would determine that, there I see no difference between the national voters in the Netherlands and the people outside the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u65	I don't think that's the element. The element is that if it is true that it is not true for me, because I knew which party I wanted to vote for, and I knew that someone is thinking 'in these provincial elections, I want to support that party, because it is against that in the province, for example', then it may be that it is voting for that party, which actually, looking at national politics, would have wanted to vote for another party. It didn't apply to me and apparently it didn't apply to the people you were asking about, but it is a situation in which we, the Dutch here, are actually stuck and what the Dutch are not going to have to do with. I wanted to highlight this inequality, and I wanted to ask what the Minister thinks about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u66	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u67	Mr. Chairman. I'll continue with the other design. I have asked questions about exactly what has been the real reason for coming to that bill, the re-examination of the constitutional review procedure, but I must tell you that I cannot derive that from the answer to my questions. I also do not understand why there would be a lack of clarity at the moment as to how the system is constitutionally structured. When I look at the Constitution, the system is clear. Only, as I have the idea, the government now apparently looks differently at the consequences of that system. That's a lot different. What are the concrete reasons for this change in the vision of the consequences of the current regime? I would like to see that question answered again by the Minister. Then I come to the next point. The government considers it undesirable that, as would be possible under the current constitutional provision, the Lower House, which was elected after dissolution pursuant to Article 137 (3) of the GW, should postpone the treatment until after the next Lower House elections. Do I see it correctly that the proposal to amend Article 137 is mainly designed to avoid this undesirableness? The proposed amendment, we have talked about it, the House of Representatives will cut off the pass, you might say, if it were to postpone the finalisation of the second reading by using the power to determine its own working methods. Now, in the response to page 3, the government puts at the top the possibilities arising within the regime of the proposed change, in response to my question on this point, that it considers it neither necessary nor desirable to limit the starting point for the Lower House to determine its own way of working and to make provision for this in the Constitution. But the amendment now proposed is precisely an intervention which restricts the right of the Chamber to determine its working methods freely. Can the Minister respond to that discrepancy? Mr. Chairman. The Government considers it undesirable that the Lower House, by a simple majority and using a prerogatives to determine its own procedure, may extend the treatment of a constitutional revision until after that new dissolution, between its election after dissolution referred to in Article 137 (3) of the GW and the date of the new dissolution. She feels that this is undesirable if it is done on improper grounds. That's what it says. And it decides to do so because it is expected that the Chamber will have a more favourable composition after the election, the government considers such an improper basis. I can imagine. In the regime of the proposed amendment, the Court may, by using its power to determine its own procedure, postpone the examination of a constitutional revision at second reading in such a way that it automatically lapses. This can also be done on false grounds, not for reasons of too busy an agenda, but only in order to ensure that a revision adopted at first reading will not lead to politically inappropriate treatment by the Chamber. That too is wrong. In both situations, this is an abuse that is possible, because the House of Representatives has the prerogatives to determine its own way of working. Mr. Chairman. If both situations of misuse can indeed arise in law, why is the possibility of improper use in the current regime worse than that which is possible under the proposed regime? That is not clear to me and I would like the Minister to explain it to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u68	I'm trying to understand what Mr Nicolaï is saying. He says it would be improper, I think he acknowledges that to postpone it until there will be a well-intentioned Chamber. But he says it's also improper if you let it go automatically because this Chamber doesn't want it to. I do not understand the latter, because if the elected Chamber does not want to approve that second reading, it will simply vote it away. Whether she votes him away or postpones him, it has the same effect. There's nothing wrong with that, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u69	I understand your question, but I didn't express myself that way either. Of course, if the House of Commons doesn't want it anymore, she'll vote it off. But it may also be that one does not want to be exposed with the buttocks and prefers not to be treated. That would be the improper use. That's how I put it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u70	That is only in the rhetorical side and the imagery and not so much in the actual effect of the law, because it is then the same, namely: it is not adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u71	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u72	Then we're already a whole end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u73	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u74	The practice is that the Lower House is no longer dissolved separately in the context of a constitutional change, but that the next election of the Lower House is also considered as an election in the context of the examination of one or more proposals for constitutional revision, the first reading of which was completed before the elections. This practice means that the election is not, I understand, the subject of the constitutional change. On the whole, the electorate did not make a special decision on the constitutional reform in the regular election of the Chamber. If that is the case, why, in the government's view, does it require that only that Parliament which has been elected regularly should be allowed to consider the second reading of the constitutional revision? That Chamber was not elected specifically for the purpose of the constitutional review, but in the context of the regular elections in which the constitutional review as such was not discussed? Can the Minister explain that again? Mr. Chairman. I come to my last question. Do I see it right that the current system offers the advantage that, if, in the context of the second reading, it appears that there is a need for a firmer electoral mandate for the constitutional review, such a mandate can be requested by leading to the completion of a treatment only by a re-elected Second Chamber? In the election of that Chamber, the constitutional review may also be a point of attention. That advantage will be lost if the proposed article is accepted. I would also like the Minister to explain this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u75	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the meeting for 30 minutes until 4:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u76	The next item is the continuation of the joint debate on 35418, Declaration that there is reason to consider a proposal to change the Constitution to include a provision on an electoral college elected by non-residents for the election of the First Chamber of the States General, and 35419, Declaration that there is reason to consider a proposal to change the Constitution of the provision on changes in the Constitution. Now the government has the floor. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is not very often that we talk in this Chamber about a constitutional proposal, let alone two constitutional proposals in one. In that respect, it is a special moment. I therefore very much appreciate your Chamber's eagerness to deal with these constitutional proposals. I hope that this will enable us to conclude the debate quickly and in time for the next round, which is also the subject of some of the proposals. Here's what I want to do. After a few introductory remarks, I will first answer all the questions concerning the electoral college. Most of the questions have been asked. I will end with the second proposal, the review of the constitutional review procedure. Mrs Bikker said: the Minister for the Interior, of course, dreams about the Constitution. That's right! We are gathered here for a first reading of constitutional reforms. Provided that the Chamber agrees to the proposals, this will result in so-called declaration laws. If these laws of explanation are placed in the Official Journal at the beginning of next year in good time before the election of the Chamber, then the next House of Representatives can start immediately with the necessary second reading, as enshrined in our Constitution and with which we have the necessary rest and, to speak with Mr Kox, a kind of conservatism built into our system. It does bring peace and contemplation, and that is useful. Then there are the two lectures. I have a few introductory remarks to make on that proposal. In recent years, a number of questions have arisen concerning the application of the current procedure for amending the Constitution. The question was, in particular, which Lower House could and should deal with the second reading of the Constitutional proposal? These and related questions have been the subject of frequent discussion and exchange of views between the Chamber and the government since the beginning of this century. The Council of State has also issued a number of opinions on this subject and has provided information. Nevertheless, the uncertainty persisted and we want to remove it with this bill. If the procedure is clear, the debate on the constitutional proposals can simply be about the content and not about the procedure. In my view, this should benefit everyone. The other proposal, the election of this Chamber, is also something that has been under discussion for a long time. The fact is that at the moment Dutch people living abroad have no influence whatsoever on the composition of the First Chamber, because they do not live in a province and do not live in the Caribbean Netherlands. The members of the First Chamber are elected by the members of the Provincial States and the electoral colleges of the Caribbean public bodies. Dutch people abroad can vote for the House of Representatives and for the European Parliament. That imbalance is the motive to present this proposal and to ensure that those Dutch, kicked, also have an influence on the composition of the First Chamber. It introduces yet another electoral college I will go to the questions next to the electoral colleges as we already know them in the Caribbean public bodies and which have been around for a few years. Mr. Chairman. In order to continue at the electoral college, through the questions asked by the senators, I shall first of all address the questions that are relevant to the content of the proposal. I shall begin with Mr Schalk, who asked about the non-Dutch. He suggested that, as a result of this proposal, non-Dutch people could also have an influence on the composition of the Upper House. I really want and can reassure him on that point. The Constitutional proposal does not result in non-Dutch citizens having an influence on the composition of the Upper House. This is reserved for Dutch people who live abroad. This was made clear in the debate on the interruption, and I would like to underline that. In this respect, the proposal made by the government cannot be compared with the suggestion made by the state committee, namely that the First Chamber should be elected by the members of the municipal councils. Non-Dutch citizens, who have the right to vote in municipal councils, would have an indirect influence on the composition of the First Chamber. But the state committee has also mentioned this as an incontrovertible road. So it has been suggested and actually rejected again and not taken over by the government either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u78	I always think it's great to be corrected, and that's right at the moment. I have already said this to the two Members who have interrupted me. I read the quote about foreign voters as Dutch people who were abroad. Now I think that has been completely corrected. Great that this was not only said to these two gentlemen during the break, but also once again in the Acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u79	Thank you, too, to Mr Schalk. It is true that this is also the case in the Acts that we are in any case in complete agreement on this point. Fine. Mrs Baay suggested that there could be an imbalance because of the fact that these Dutch people have an influence on the First Chamber via an electoral college and thus have a different type of influence than Dutch people in this part of the Netherlands, namely through the provinces. But of course we're not introducing something new. Because the form of the electoral college already exists, namely for the BES islands. So yes, you can say that there is a difference, but it is a difference that the Constitution already knows. That is what we agree with in this proposal. Is it all the same? No, but the route through the electoral college is one that we already know and which is already part of the Constitution. In that respect, therefore, I see no objection to that proposal. Mr Van Hattem of the PVV said: then perhaps it would be even better to let the First Chamber just be directly elected by all the voters of the Netherlands. We could, but then we'll have a completely different situation. Then you'll have a very strong democratically-legited Chamber. The State Commission, Mr Remkes, also devoted its words to this. But she rejects that, because that is actually a threat to the two-chamber system as we know it in the Netherlands, where the political primacy has been granted to the Second Chamber, and that is expressed to a large extent by the direct election of the Second Chamber. So it's about the current way of election, versus the indirect election of the First Chamber. I would like to endorse that reasoning of the State Committee. I have a number of other questions that relate to the state committee. Mr Kox asked a similar question. I would like to repeat that the First Chamber is not directly elected. Nor is it the case in the proposal that non-Dutch people would have an influence on the composition of the Upper House. The proposal therefore fits perfectly into these frameworks: it concerns Dutch people abroad and it is a separate electoral college which then influences the choice of the First Chamber, which makes it comparable to the situation surrounding the Caribbean public bodies. Mr Schalk referred to another debate that we did have last week, and also to the government's progress letter of 1 July last, which again refers to the Remkes State Commission. It's actually about two different things. The passage in the progress note, which Mr Schalk pointed out, looks at the opinion of the State Commission to adopt the Civil Forum electoral system. This is about the electoral system and the possibility of voting a list. But that possibility is less obvious when the First Chamber is elected. That is why the cabinet chooses to follow the Civil Forum electoral system only in the other elections. The Constitutional proposal we are discussing today is not about such a change in the electoral system, but about a limited extension of the right to vote, because, in addition to the Provincial States and the electoral colleges that already exist for the Caribbean public bodies, we are creating an additional electoral college and giving Dutch citizens abroad the opportunity to influence the composition of the First Chamber. So the intentions are very good to reconcile, but they are really about two very different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u80	I have a question of a practical nature. For new parties participating in these First Chamber elections, one must have statements of support from all states members in all provinces, and also from randomly elected representatives in the Caribbean Islands, regardless of whether they belong to one's own party or someone else. How does the Minister see that going into his work with this electoral college for the Dutch abroad? Does such a procedure also apply? How does it work? I'm interested in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u81	Thanks for the question. Mr Otten has a lot of questions about implementing legislation. I will deal with some of these questions in a moment, but I also think it is important that Mr Otten, Mrs Bikker, Mr Ganzevoort and others have said that what is before us is not yet about implementing legislation. Many of the comments made by Mr Otten and others are relevant and I am glad that I know them in advance, because of course we have to get to work on implementing legislation, but that has not yet been decided in this proposal. I have not yet been able to answer some of these questions, as this has yet to be included in the further proposals. By definition, these can only occur in the next round. That goes for this, too. Then I come to a number of Caribbean aspects. Some questions have been asked about that. For example, Mr Van Hattem asked why the Dutch in the Caribbean countries could not vote for the electoral college. He turned that against other Dutch people, for example Dutch people in Turkey with a double nationality. As far as I am concerned, it is very obvious that the right to vote for the electoral college should be aligned with the right to vote already in force for the Lower House. That is what we are dealing with in the draft Constitution. This means that all Dutch residents living abroad are granted this right to vote, including Dutch nationals who have a different nationality. The inhabitants of the Caribbean countries, so Dutch people on Curaçao, Aruba, have the right to vote. They have the right to vote for their own representatives of the Caribbean countries, the States. That's the difference as it is. It also makes sense to me to just leave it that way. You can't really separate that discussion from the right to vote in the Lower House. Dutch people abroad have the right to vote for that House of Representatives. Mr Ganzevoort asked whether the Constitutional proposal was also discussed with the Caribbean countries, because it was a proposal that affected those countries. There is, of course, something about this in the Staff Regulations, Article 11. That Article provides that proposals for amending the Constitution, laying down provisions on matters of the Kingdom, affect the Caribbean countries. That article is therefore about constitutional proposals on Kingdom matters. The provisions of the Constitution relating to Chambers shall not be considered as such in the Statute. So it doesn't really mean what's going on here. So the answer is no, but it does not have to be in accordance with the Staff Regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u82	That's an interesting interpretation. I would also like to comment on the previous point, because not only Mr Van Hattem, but also I went into it. My point, of course, was that in Kingdom matters, among other things, issues of Dutch citizenship have been defined. If Hollanderschap is the core business of this constitutional change, because that Dutchmanship determines the extent to which you should be able to influence the parliament here, then it is doubtful whether this is a Kingdom matter. It is in any case an issue that becomes relevant because our Kingdom citizens living in Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, in my assessment, are disadvantaged compared to Dutch people of dual nationality living elsewhere. That is something that is a very important point in the relationship between the countries. At that point, I would like a little more reflection. That it is already so before the House of Representatives, I know. But maybe that's a very undesirable choice. If we perpetuate them now, if we continue to do so, and thereby maintain a disadvantage for our citizens of the Kingdom in other Kingdom countries, then we must reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u83	If Mr Ganzevoort follows this line of reasoning, perhaps he will agree with me that, if we want to deepen that further, we should actually have a much broader discussion. So you shouldn't just talk about Dutch people abroad with influence on the Upper House. Then perhaps you should talk about how we actually look at the right to vote of the Dutch of our three islands, together in the Kingdom; so you must understand the word "us." We've made other choices for that. In only the narrowest of this proposal, which is about Dutch people abroad, I think that broad discussion is actually less appropriate. The main thing is that you could have that discussion with each other, but as it is now, I really think the government's proposal is a consistent one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u84	It is consistent in maintaining the inconsistency. That's also a value, but the question is whether you shouldn't reflect on it anymore and whether, if you're dealing with these issues, you shouldn't at least say a few words about it. Just saying 'it's just that's the way it is, I think it's too short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u85	I certainly didn't want to be too short. I have only looked a little to see if Mr Ganzevoort agrees with me that if we were to have that discussion, it would not only be about the stepped-up election to the First Chamber, but that it should be about the right to vote for the Second Chamber. 'Cause then you could say it's rubbing there, too. I would say: as long as we are talking about this limited change which only applies to Dutch people abroad, I think it is actually consistent to say that because of this right to vote for the people of Curaçao, Aruba and Saint Martin. If you had a much broader discussion about whether you would like that right to vote also to see the composition of the House of Representatives, you could also take the Upper Chamber with you in the slipstream. That is not the choice we are making in this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u86	Mr. Ganzevoort, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u87	I understand this in terms of the efficiency of this discussion, but that does make the government's argument vulnerable. That argument is: the legislation does not affect them so much, they are allowed to vote elsewhere, etc. That argument is not very sustainable for me, because it is exactly the same for Dutch people with a double nationality who live abroad. They can also vote in two places and they also have to do with Dutch legislation that may not directly affect them. If we really want to break it up, we want to limit ourselves here to the efficient discussion and only have to opt for the First Chamber, then that whole argument should really stay out of it, because it doesn't help.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u88	I believe that we agree on the principle: when you talk about this issue, you should actually broaden it. Mr. Ganzevoort also nodded. That's a win in itself, I'd almost say. We're talking about Dutch people abroad. If you're a Dutchman who temporarily works on Curaçao, you can just vote, because you're a temporary person and you've lived in the Netherlands for more than ten years. So that's what it's for. The other group, which simply has the right to vote for its own parliament through normal channels, is indeed seen differently. But again, I do not think that is the main issue in this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u89	But for the other group, it will receive a treatment which means that that group does not have the right to vote, while other Dutch people with a dual nationality will now have the right to vote. At that time, therefore, we in the Netherlands are doing something about legislation that affects citizens of other countries in the Kingdom. In the light of Article 11 and Article 6 of the Statute, I would like to ask the Minister a question. With regard to the first parts of Article 11, which the Minister just quoted, countries of the Kingdom can also simply state for themselves that it concerns them. This is typically also an interpretation, or indeed Kingdom relations. Is it really about being a citizen of the Kingdom, yes then no? I can imagine people saying yes. The minister may not, but let's leave that in the middle. Let's just ask the countries themselves. We have that time towards second reading. In my view, this is a much more royal way, in compliance with the Statute, than merely to reason that it should ever be resolved in the broadest sense. That's no use to these people in the other countries of the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u90	I understand your reasoning. Mrs Bikker also knows that if that had been a feeling that lived on the islands, they could have reported it, but that did not happen. Moreover, if you were to define this broadly, you would have to or could explain a lot of legislation and regulations involving nationality to the Kingdom. That didn't happen. I don't have a clue that it is. Mrs Bikker refers to the second reading and says that this question could still arise. Of course we can, but we could have done that before and we haven't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u91	But now I hear again the loftyness that I regret. I think it is quite clear in the Rules of Procedure that this is something I can remember when it comes to legislation on criminal law that the countries are being asked what they think, whether there is something they say is affecting them and whether they can give it to us. Whether or not that is in the end Article 11 of the Statute is a second for me, but out of courtesy to our citizens in the Kingdom with two nationalities, I think it is perfectly logical that our government should inform the other governments in the Kingdom how they see it. That's step one. And step two is, and it's heavier: do we comply with the Statute? I say to the Minister: look carefully at paragraph 6 of Article 11. Don't take that too much, but let's hang out and put it there for a while. It's not that complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u92	I understand Mrs Bikker's attachment to it, but it always works in two directions. If that had been a heavy feeling, it could have been the other way around. I understand that Mrs Bikker thinks that we should offer this actively, but I have no indication under previous laws and regulations that Article 11 of the Statute should be interpreted in this way by them or by us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u93	Mrs. Bikker, third?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u94	I differ from the Minister of Justice on that point. But then I still have no answer to my question of how we royally deal with each other in the Kingdom. This is by informing other countries, because it creates a different position for their citizens with a dual nationality than for all other Dutch people with a dual nationality in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u95	Well, I really do see that differently, because they simply have the right to vote for their own parliament, so I see no distinction in that regard, or at least no disadvantage, as Mrs Bikker is now suggesting, for these people. Mrs Bikker disagrees with me, but so do I with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u96	We will have a second term, Mrs Bikker, but a fourth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u97	Yes, a question to the Minister. What is the difference between a Dutchman with a dual nationality in Morocco and Aruba? If a person in Morocco has a dual nationality, he may vote for both and not in Aruba.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u98	What dual nationality are you talking about in Aruba?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u99	As a citizen of Aruba, you vote for parliament there, you say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u100	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u101	And so you can't vote for the First Chamber. But the resident who has gone to Morocco, with a double nationality, may vote for the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u102	No. Once again, the citizen of Aruba, whom Mrs Bikker is talking about, does not, in my view, have a dual nationality at all. In that respect, the situations differ. I don't consider an Aruban person to be a dual-national. He simply has a nationality and that nationality leads to the right to vote for his own parliament. That's the deal we made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u103	I agree with the Minister, but I still believe that the resident who has the nationality of the Netherlands, who comes from here and lives there and who has not lived here for ten years, is in a different position. That point remains. I would be pleased if the Minister would just take that up with the other countries in the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u104	What I do not quite understand and what I want to ask the Minister is what is against simply asking what Mrs Bikker is saying about Rule 11, sixth paragraph: this is going to happen, do you have the idea that it is a Kingdom matter? You say not, that is correct, but the Statute for the Kingdom with other countries provides that those other countries may also find something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u105	Well, no, the other countries can always find something. But the interpretation here is that Article 11 of the Statute does not deal with this matter, which is a matter in which nationality can play a role, and which is about voting rights. That's how I interpreted it. So far, this has not led to any comments from that side. Mrs Bikker suggests: ask them yet, give them the opportunity to do so. By the way, she suggested doing so at second reading. Of course, we can always look at whether that is necessary, but I am sticking to the interpretation of Article 11 of the Statute, because we have not done so either in this case or in other laws and regulations that deal with similar issues. So there's no reason to assume that someone would explain that article 11 in that way. But my opening to second reading is: you can always ask. And I can also imagine that the countries are following this debate, and if there are any comments from it, then that discussion can always take place. But I have absolutely no reason to believe that it would be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u106	That then raises the question: is the interpretation here worth more than the interpretation there? That's a bit of a separate approach that I'm tasting in there. And, two, I still don't understand what trouble it would take to say to the question that Mrs Bikker has put to you: yes, we will do that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u107	Well, there's nothing against asking that question, but the moment is when the question. Because today we are discussing this Constitutional proposal in this Chamber. This question did not arise in the proceedings in the Lower House. There have been no indications that it would play in such a way. So I would say: if we want to find out whether that could play a role, let that be on the way to second reading. And I have also interpreted Mrs Bikker's question in this way. She also explicitly mentioned the second reading.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u108	Mr. Nicolaï, your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u109	Yes. I would like to know whether our interpretation here is worth more than the interpretation there, because that is what you really said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u110	No, I didn't say that, so I'm definitely not gonna let you put those words in my mouth. I would also like to point out that the Council of State has not made such a comment at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u111	I understand the Minister's reaction, because the moment you start moving, you don't know what's moving with it. So that's not unwise in her position. At the same time, I believe that this is what the Council of State is referring to: something is being set in motion for which, apart from the coalition agreement, there are actually very few reasons to do it, or urgent reasons. "Our Kingdom" sounds better than what it sometimes is, and it's also great, of course, but it's not a logical thing. So whenever you do something in our kingdom, it doesn't make any sense. I don't think there's anything to be done about that, and that's not so bad. But this is one of those things that I think the constitutionalist must say, and that is what we are saying, and not at second reading but at first reading, what he really wants with it. My proposal to take it back is probably not going to make it, but this should still be considered at first reading. It is what Mr Ganzevoort says, namely that it seems a bit like you have not been lucky at this point if you live in one of the Kingdom countries that are not called the Netherlands. Perhaps we can find a way out of this, but I think that this should be considered at first reading. I don't think it is, but perhaps the Minister has a different opinion on this that we have a system that you do but what you do at first reading. At second reading, we are already faced with this huge problem of the two-thirds majority. So one more question to the Minister: would it not be wise to reconsider these points raised here? Look, we have to make a quick decision, but we don't have to today. In fact, we're not gonna decide today either. We don't decide for another week at the earliest. I would ask the Minister to consider that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u112	No, I wouldn't be in favour of that. I had a debate with Mr Ganzevoort just in the event of an interruption. We actually came to the conclusion that you could, of course, discuss the Dutch in the Caribbean countries, but that you would have a broad discussion with each other, because then it would be about voting rights in general; not just about this indirect influence on the election of the First Chamber. If we wanted to have such a wide-ranging discussion with each other, we could do so, but that is separate from this proposal. So I think that this proposal can simply be concluded now, at least the treatment of it, also because of the fact that, although I repeat what I said just now in response to Mrs Bikker, there was an absolute opportunity, of course in the Second Chamber, by the advice of the Council of State and also by the countries themselves, to act on it. That didn't happen. I therefore have many arguments, for example that the European Court of Human Rights has been following the Dutch Government for a very long time in the same reasoning, namely that there is a right to vote for its own parliament. That is a special position, particularly in such a situation in the Kingdom as we have organized it with each other, but that possibility exists. This relates well to the granting of the indirect right to vote for the Dutch Senate abroad, not in a country in the Kingdom, but in the Netherlands abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u113	The Minister's remark that the three other countries have had plenty of time to react is correct. At the same time, I've been with this long enough to know it doesn't work that way. It will probably work there after this debate. Is that okay or not? At least that's how it works. They don't sit there all the time looking at what we're doing here. So I would consider it, because sooner or later it will come back. We have had a number of examples in the past that the three other countries have reacted fairly late. Then I come to the first part of the Minister's response. The Council of State points out that we give a form of Constitution and change the Constitution from "relaxed to." I told you, I think that's a good thing. The Council of State also says: you have to be careful. Social changes can be incorporated into the Constitution, for example the fact that there are so many Dutch people who are not allowed to vote for the Upper House. You can do that, but it's got to be some kind of durable thing. If the Minister and Mr Ganzevoort come to the conclusion that you should actually see it more broadly, I think the first task should be to look at it more broadly instead of acting consistently on this point, but, in the words of Mr Ganzevoort, consistently in continuing an inconsistency. Is there really so much opposition to looking at that again and looking at it more broadly instead of saying: let's just do this? Otherwise, we will have to change the Constitution again, because it was not the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u114	That was an extremely long and well-thought-out interruption by Mr Kox. The point is that Mr Kox and I, as well as one other Member in this Chamber, differ on that point. Of course you can. But the mere difference of opinion is no reason to choose a different approach. I maintain the approach taken by the cabinet, which I have just explained quite extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u115	Then I guess we'll leave it at that. I ask the Minister to continue her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u116	Yes. Then I would like to say something about implementing legislation. I would like to begin by saying a few words about informing the Council of State. That information was requested at the request of the House of Representatives. A single senator has complained that you received it so late, for which I apologize. I myself received it late, namely last Thursday. I think if I'd been more careful, it might have been with you for the weekend. I'm sorry, that would've been better. Now it only ended up with you yesterday. Fortunately, however, I have noticed that Members have been able to look at it. It's about implementing legislation. Mrs Bikker's question was: does this information provide a basis for solutions in the implementing legislation, which can only be dealt with by definition? The Section concludes that it is not possible to fully comply with the principle of proportional representation if we do not adapt the existing method of calculation for voters within the Netherlands. However, the Section also stresses that the Constitution does allow the legislator to make exceptions to that proportional representation. According to the Council of State, the option of determining the voting value for voters outside the Netherlands on the basis of the number of votes cast fits within the framework set by the Constitution. The section then says that it would be constitutionally possible to also determine the voting value of the members of Provincial States and the electoral colleges of the Caribbean public bodies on the basis of the number of votes cast. But that option would, of course, constitute a fundamental review of the nature of the election of the First Chamber. And, says the Council of State, such a review is not obvious. That is the conclusion reached by the Council of State and I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u117	Does the Minister consider that the Council of State has considered all options?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u118	However, the Council of State has considered many options. We've all been able to read that. I daren't say they've considered all the options, but a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u119	I dare say they haven't considered all the options. That is, by definition, not possible. The point is this. You can say that we are going to use a very different structure of choice, but you can also say: we understand that there is a difference between working through provinces and working through electoral lectures, we understand that you cannot do that with Dutch people abroad via a count where you count everyone; all completely logical. But that doesn't mean that you can't solve the imbalance between how much influence an individual voice has. I do not believe that the Council of State has devoted any thought to this point. I would ask the Minister to think through that. If these routes do not work, do we have this structure of an electoral college of arithmetical possibilities to better approach that equivalence of votes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u120	Here I'm actually struggling with two conflicting thoughts. Those are the thoughts expressed by Mr Ganzevoort in his term, namely: that is not the issue at the moment. It is actually premature to make statements about it, because it comes only with implementing legislation. I thought that Mr Ganzevoort also started his term, and then asked questions and comments on the implementing law that is coming after it and also on these issues. That is also legitimate, because if you take such a step, it is also good to consider how that should then be done in implementing legislation. But it's only then. I must also be a little careful to rule all over my grave. I think all the thoughts on this are very useful. I think it is also a good thing that questions are being asked about it and to some extent answered, and that we are being helped in doing so by informing the Council of State. There is, of course, also a relationship with that proportional representation. Let me leave it at that, because I think that perhaps our exchange of views should stop there. It is something that is only worked out in legislation at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u121	I think this is too easy. I didn't bring up the method of how constituencies should work. That's what the Minister started. It has included this in its explanatory memorandum. He's answered all kinds of questions about it. She started it, not me. Then I'll ask you a question. My first question was: what is the status of her memories? Is that indeed: it could be that way, but it can also be quite different later? I have asked whether she acknowledges that, if we now agree to this declaration, it does not in any way mean that we already agree to a certain route of constitutional change. Then it's really too easy if she says now that maybe we should stop talking about it. No, she brought it up. If I ask her if she is willing to take seriously that at least this proportional representation should be a centre of gravity in the elaboration, then I find it too easy when she says: we'll look at it later, because I don't want to rule over my grave. In any case, I would like the Minister to say that an effect should approach proportional representation as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u122	No, I need to clear up a misunderstanding. Mr Ganzevoort now seems to take offense at my words. I am simply trying to repeat the dilemma that he himself laid down in the first term, namely that this is not yet in this draft constitution and that it cannot be, because it should be in the implementing law. In fact, I think it is legitimate to discuss this in advance. The Council of State has already made comments on the Constitutional proposal, so I think it is also legitimate for this to be considered in advance. Maybe there's a difference of opinion. I think that's all right. So I do not disagree at all with Mr Ganzevoort. I can also imagine that it would be a good idea to try to approach this proportional representation. I can also imagine and agree with the idea that we have not yet assessed and studied this exhaustively enough. There is therefore still work to be done in this respect to see how we can optimise this in the implementing law, which I can at least make a start on in my term, but which will of course only be sent by a subsequent cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u123	Mr. Ganzevoort, your third interruption. I'd like to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u124	Very briefly. Is the Minister prepared to say that, to the extent that it can still do so in its term, she wants to consider how to optimise proportionality towards that implementing law of the Tickets Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u125	Yes, I would like to pledge that to Mr Ganzevoort. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u126	I'll take a look at the time. I am, of course, giving Mr Van Hattem a chance and I think we should give the Minister a chance to make a few meters. Otherwise, we're gonna be in trouble on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u127	I fully agree with the order proposal, but I should like to make a brief comment on what the Minister just said about informing the Council of State. The Minister says it is about information on implementing legislation. In doing so, the Minister is actually ignoring the conclusions which the Council of State makes very clearly on the back of their piece, on page 10. In the latter part there are sometimes the most important conclusions. That is where the Council of State makes it very clear that they doubt whether this fundamental review should take place now. I think this is an important aspect, which goes beyond implementing legislation alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u128	I have already said that it is a pity, of course, that I have not been able to send it to the First Chamber before. But if Mr Van Hattem read the Council of State information correctly, he could see that it is about the option we do not choose, namely a fundamental review of the whole system. I did some checking when Mr Van Hattem asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u129	Then I suggest that we give the Minister a chance to make some progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u130	Yeah, I'm fine. I don't have much left. I'll try to do it quickly, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Bikker asked if the draft law, i.e. the amendment of the Kieswet, could be ready before the second reading in the House of Representatives begins. I have just said, in the event of interruption, that I cannot, of course, make commitments to future coalitions and Cabinets, but I do think it should be possible, before the second reading begins, to inform the Chamber, for example, by letter of what could be the main thrust of such a legislative proposal. The legislative process can, of course, run parallel to the second reading. As Mrs Bikker rightly pointed out, there will of course be a reflection and weighting of fundamental rights. I have already promised Mr Ganzevoort, in the event of interruption, to include his proposals for determining the voting value. So I'll confirm that again. I would have liked to have done that by the way. Mr Van Hattem asked whether the implementing law provides for the declaration of support for the electoral college. That has been asked before, even in the event of interruption. The implementing law, which will soon have to be taken up, elaborates this type of detail, that is to say, the question of the declarations of support. Mr Otten asked the same question. Again, different options are conceivable. It can be done by letter and it can be done in person at embassies, consulates and so on. But those choices have to be made. The implementation practice, which Mr Otten called attention to, including the deposit he referred to in his term, will certainly be included in the drafting of the implementing law. It seems to me to be an obvious part of this, but I also think it is important that it should go well and better in the implementation, when I hear Mr Otten like that. Mrs Bikker asked whether we would be able to get the registers in order in the follow-up to this constitutional amendment. Of course, we have the permanent registration. Mrs Bikker mentioned that herself. The Dutch abroad are of course not obliged to register. We're just trying to make things a little easier. So we are not going in the direction of an obligation. There must be attention to keeping the data of the registered persons up to date, but there is also, of course, a responsibility of its own. We have said: you can register once now and then it stays that way. But if people move, then it is of course their own responsibility to register again in that new place. But that we can do better and that we have to keep it in order, I agree with her. Mrs Baay asked about the provision of information to voters abroad. That's what information is all about. I've already said something about the registration. They must then be personally registered by the municipality of The Hague, the municipality responsible for the Dutch abroad. Together with the municipality of The Hague, I want to see how Dutch people can be reached more widely abroad than is currently the case. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a few final comments on this, and finally I have the motion on the electoral college. Mr Van Hattem made a procedural remark. He said, briefly, if we don't say anything, that doesn't mean we agree to be First Chamber. In this case, it was about a letter. The main thrust of the proposal was set out in that letter. The standing committee of this Chamber adopted that letter for notification. That doesn't mean I'm gonna assume that the First Chamber agrees. I'm just assuming that the First Chamber wouldn't want a debate on that letter. If no debate is planned, I will just take the next step. That is a step that will then lead to a step in the legislative process. So I certainly wouldn't conclude: who doesn't say anything consents. On the contrary. The only conclusion I've drawn is that the First Chamber doesn't need a debate. Then I come to Mr Van Hattem's motion. The motion calls on the government to take measures in the further legislative process to prevent multiple nationality for members of an electoral college elected by non-residents for the election of the Upper Chamber. The draft Constitution makes no distinction between Dutch people with a single nationality and Dutch people with a multiple nationality. That is not the intention of the proposal either, and I would advise against this motion. Mr. Chairman. I have one more question about the second proposal before us, namely the constitutional review procedure. Mr Nicolaï had a number of questions about this. First of all, he asked about this proposal. The reason for this is the debate, which I also briefly referred to in my introduction on how the review procedure should be applied. In practice, this has proved to be unclear. That's undesirable. Mr Nicolaï also pointed out the situation that the House of Representatives did not conclude the second reading of a Constitutional proposal but for political reasons, for example, would move on to another House of Representatives. Initially, attempts were made to prevent this by making agreements. These are non-binding agreements between constitutional actors. Those agreements did not offer any guarantee in practice. That is why this provision is now being made in the Constitution. Mr Schalk asked me to confirm that this review of the constitutional review procedure no longer makes it possible to wait endlessly with the debate in the House of Representatives. I can fully confirm that: yes. That's exactly the point. As a result, the elected Second Chamber concludes its examination of the second reading of the Constitutional proposal. And if this does not happen, the proposal will automatically lapse. Mr Nicolaï then asked why the House of Representatives, elected after the conclusion of the first reading, would have to do the second reading if the House of Representatives were not to be dissolved separately in the context of a constitutional revision. It has not been the case for a long time that the House of Representatives has been dissolved as a result of a constitutional revision, or for the purposes of a constitutional revision, perhaps I should say. It has actually been used for decades to save the first readings of various constitutional changes and to continue after a next election of the House of Representatives. It's not new in that respect. We already know this practice very well, but I think that the time between the first and second readings in the form of a parliamentary election is crucial, because it guarantees that a constitutional review will only be carried out if there is firm support for it. That's a bit like Mr. Kox just mentioned. It is also in line with an opinion of the Remkes Committee, the State Committee. Of course, it may also be that a election to the European Parliament is marked by a constitutional revision. You don't have to, but you can. In any case, it can be an important fact for the electorate. It is therefore desirable that the new House of Representatives, the House of Representatives in new composition, should be the House of Representatives which takes the final decision on such a constitutional change. So if you can move that forward or leave it to a next or subsequent Chamber, that would undermine the previous electorate's ruling on this matter. Mr Nicolaï said that the government does not want to commit the House of Representatives to certain time limits in order to actually deal with the second reading within its term of office. However, as I have just said, this Constitutional proposal means that that second reading must be completed by the new House of Representatives, because if that does not happen, the proposal will lapse. We are not talking about how the House of Representatives does that and what steps should be taken. It may also be part of a cabinet formation or otherwise. It is not necessary or desirable to restrict the House of Representatives in this respect. The Lower House simply determines its own agenda within the framework of the Constitution. But the House of Representatives has the opportunity to do so in the Rules of Procedure and the House of Representatives also has proposals to that effect in preparation. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a question from Mr Nicolaï and I also thought of Mrs Baay on the same point. Would it be possible for the House of Representatives to postpone the procedure for itself, because the proposal would automatically lapse? It could be. It would be a cumbersome road, because a vote in such a situation would probably also lead to a failure to reach the Constitutional proposal. So it could be, but I don't think it would make any sense. In other words, under the line, it doesn't make much difference. This is really up to the Chamber. I have no further judgment on that. All I can say about it is that it's not very obvious. Mr. Chairman. Those were the answers to the questions I was asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u131	Thank you, Minister. I'll see if there's any more interruptions. I don't see them. We now come to the second term of office. I inform Members that, in the event of a motion being tabled, you must read the text yourself and then you can put the motion on the table to your right. The Courtesy will collect and distribute the motion after your contribution. I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was just thinking about the Roman Senate. He already had the principle S.P.Q.R.; Senatus Populusque Romanus, or the Senate and the people of Rome. So not the people somewhere in the north of Germania, or I know where far from there. That should not apply to the election of our Senate either. They must be the people of the residents of our Dutch provinces and the territories of the Caribbean who have the right to vote. With this constitutional change, the Minister opens a Pandora box of inconsistencies. Instead of solving an imbalance, this electoral college creates new complexities, with unbalanced voting values and the position of Dutch people on Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten vis-à-vis persons of dual nationality living in another country. As far as PVV is concerned, the solution would be to completely abolish double nationality. It is and remains crooked that for example an Aruban Dutchman should not vote for the First Chamber, and a Moroccan in Morocco with a Dutch passport is. That's completely inexplicable. Furthermore, the Minister still does not provide any clear justification for the change in the basis of residence. The Minister has no clear explanation as to why the Constitution's system should be changed as it has been laid down. Some of that has already been discussed on the other side. Residence is an important basis. He's gonna be released with this. The Minister also takes up a lot of matters with the announcement that they will return to the implementing legislation. She calls them "details." However, they are not details, but essential elements. If there is a shaky basis for the implementing law in this amendment to the Constitution, then we need to settle it properly at the front, or be consistent and return to our steps. Especially with the information provided by the Council of State recently and far too late, it is not careful to continue the examination of this bill in this Chamber. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the treatment could be stopped here. In any case, the PVV Group will vote against this bill, whether it is going to happen or not. Mr. Chairman. So much for my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u133	I would like to come back to the interruption that Mr Van Hattem made in the first term. In that statement he indicated that he found paying provincial pennies of great importance for having the right to vote for the First Chamber. I got him over that for a while during the break. How many of your constituents do you think are in a benefit situation, for example, or are exempt from provincial tax because they cannot pay it, especially in this corona crisis? In your reasoning, they may not vote for the First Chamber. We can't get started on that, can we? Perhaps you have a lot of voters in Benidorm or I know where in Spain, among older people who move after their retirement. As far as you're concerned, if I understand you correctly, they're not allowed to participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u134	That's 50PLUS. Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u135	They still exist?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u136	No, Mr Otten is completely misinterpreting it. It concerns residence and the question of whether someone is resident in a particular province. If he lives in a province, he will have to deal with the lusts and burdens of that province. That can indeed be the provincial pennies, or there can be effects of the terrible climate agreement, which fills its entire province and living environment with wind turbines. These aspects are all inextricably linked to being resident in a province, and thus to residence. I didn't say you can't vote until you pay taxes. That's some kind of census right. You didn't hear me argue that. I said it should be about residence and all aspects of it, or all the problems you get on your plate because you live in that province. On the other hand, you may vote in the Provincial State elections and therefore indirectly in the First Chamber elections because you are resident in that province. That is the aspect, and that is not linked to paying or not paying taxes. That's one of the factors you're dealing with, but it's not a criterion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u137	Okay. I therefore understand that, in Mr Van Hattem's reasoning, people who have worked for a long time in the Netherlands and paid taxes and who leave for sunnier places after their retirement are non-residents and are therefore not entitled to vote. That is the consequence of your speech. We do not think that is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u138	That is also the current situation. Those people are allowed to vote for the House of Representatives. They simply have direct influence on that and they can fully exercise that right. As a resident of a province, you vote for the Provincial States and therefore for the Upper House. By moving abroad, you choose to give up that right. That's the current system. We are not in favour of amending that by means of this law. The fact that Mr Otten considers it important to give certain elitist clubs in New York a privilege over other people is something we would rather not go along with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u139	Mr. Otten, your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u140	Well, I don't think those 1 million Dutch people abroad are all elite clubs. I am sorry that Mr Van Hattem has such a mindset. Let us just have all the people of Dutch nationality cast their votes here. Whether they're all gonna do it is verse two, because in practice it turns out that a lot of people don't. But I object to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u141	I have been very clear: if people are Dutch nationals and they are going to live abroad, then they do not suffer from a terrible wind farm or an asylum seekers center in their backyard, which is all related to living in that province. I think that this aspect should be taken into account in a vote for the Provincial State elections. So much for the second term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u142	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Kox on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is one proposal to amend the Constitution, which may receive unanimous support, depending on what Mr Nicolaï ultimately does. It would be very nice if this Chamber were to vote unanimously in favour of reviewing the constitutional review procedure. It's a small law, but it's actually a big step. It's gonna pay off right away. If we decide that here today, at least the next House of Representatives can get to work and know what to do. We shouldn't say it's just a law. No, it's an important step. It has been pointed out for years that it is actually a growing irregularity. We're gonna take care of them with this. So congratulations to the Minister for getting this bill passed by this Chamber. As far as the second legislative proposal is concerned, it is clear that my group cannot support it at this time. It's too unbearable. The Minister's reasoning is: if you see it very small, then it is true. Since I have read the opinion of the Council of State and the opinion of the State Committee correctly, I think that is the wrong reasoning. You need to see it wider first and then see how that works out. Let me be clear: that does not mean that if this legislative proposal is adopted here at first reading, my group will always be against it. No, we do have time to see if we can still decorate it in such a way that it is good. But I think that's a wrong way to work. You need to figure out what you want first, and then you need to refine it. This is the opposite way. But at a second reading, my group will be taking part in the debate. One last point: I can't help it. Mrs Bikker said to the Minister: you are, of course, dreaming about the Constitution. The Minister also said: yes. I thought: oh God, life is not easy and dreaming about the Constitution. But along the way, I was thinking: it could be an exciting dream again, because the Minister still has the opportunity to use the Constitution. If we say yes to at least one of her legislative proposals, then she can say: I will inform my colleagues in the cabinet that we are going to dissolve the Chamber and that there will be elections in three months' time. Nothing prevents you from doing so, except perhaps common sense, and you have it abundantly. Then it would really be an exciting dream: we are adopting a law re-examination constitutional review procedure and, uh, there will be new elections, and no one who could do anything about it. It's great, isn't it? But that's what keeps dreaming. My group is voting in favour of the first legislative proposal on the review and against the second legislative proposal on the electoral college.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u144	Thank you, Mr. Kox. Then the floor is for Mr Schalk of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the answers, which have also removed a misunderstanding. Thank you for that. The core of my first-term questions was, of course, whether the principle of kicked-out elections of the First Chamber, based on residence, is being undermined, because apparently the Netherlands would form a sort of fourteenth province around the world. However, it is also good to note that we have two legislative proposals at the same time. The first proposal, the revision proposal, actually raises a question about the other proposal. The answer to my written questions shows that there is still a great deal open for the future, particularly when it comes to what the implementing legislator will have to do in a moment. There was a question from Mrs Bikker, which at that time could no longer be interrupted. The Minister replied that it is not yet certain whether a commitment can be made before the second reading in the House of Representatives or whether all these aspects have already been crystallised. However, in the reply to the revision proposal, the Minister indicated that it should actually be the case that the second reading should actually take place in the Lower House. In one of the documents I read that, at the time we would have a very short Second Chamber period, which means that, as soon as a new Second Chamber enters, there should be pieces ready for the second reading. How do you prevent us from going through a lot of issues about the implementation towards the future that the Minister is saying at the moment: I do not know whether it will be possible to have these implementation options worked out by mid-March next year? That is a crucial question that remains before me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u146	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Then the floor is for Mr. Ganzevoort of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u147	Mr. Chairman. I like to join the catch 22 that Mr Schalk described: we are not ready yet, and at the same time it must be done quickly. So let us not delay this debate, then the Minister can take further steps this evening. I am also saying this because, as far as we are concerned, this law is in its simplicity and modesty. Certainly, there is much left open and there are fundamental questions about it. But in its simplicity we support the idea that in this way we also allow the Dutch abroad to influence the composition of the First Chamber. At the same time, it is not the case that we are about to resolve this at second reading. At second reading, we will do nothing but say yes or no to the proposal that is then before us, in addition to the proposal that is now before us. It's about the enforcement law, the Tickets Act. That is where the essential issues lie, and that is where I am asking for the Minister's prompt attention. Thank you for the commitment to seek the best possible proportionality of the voting value. We think that is important. That is what we would like to see before then, because I think it is good to keep the momentum going. If we start math soon, we'll come a long way. Just a few more moments on the sore spot of the Caribbean countries. The reason why I went into that is that it is immediately touching. I heard that in my opinion Mr Bikker's questions also deal with relations within the Kingdom. It affects the way we treat each other as countries. It touches on the awareness of a democratic deficit which is constantly being felt. It also affects a feeling that lives in the Caribbean part of our Kingdom about some kind of Dutch arrogance: we decide things and you only have to follow them. Since we do not have a good Kingdom Government and since we in the Dutch Government and in the Dutch Parliament are actually deciding on all kinds of matters that affect us all, it is all the more painful if Dutch people are allowed to vote with a double nationality abroad and they are not. That was actually my main point. That is a bigger discussion, which we will have to have at another time. At the moment, that's not in the law. We can support the two laws before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u148	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. I call Mr Dittrich on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have closed my first term by saying that the D66 Group will support both legislative proposals, and that has remained the case after the Minister's reply. The only thing I would like to say in my second term is that if we are going to deal with the second reading of both legislative proposals here in the First Chamber, it would be very good to have the implementing legislation, that is, the Tickets Act, clear as well, so that we do know exactly what we are talking about. I trust that the Minister will also take up this implementing legislation with speed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u150	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. I call Mr Otten from the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see there on the beautiful mantelpiece Article 1 (5) of an old Constitution. It says: To have some citizenship rights, one must be Dutch. Well, that's actually the discussion we're having today. Some people want to add all kinds of qualifications to that, such as "you're only Dutch when you're paying provincial credits," or I know what kind of qualifications you're doing. We don't want to be part of that. Either you're Dutch or you're not. As far as we are concerned, therefore, support for this legislation. I fully agree with Mr Dittrich: the devil is in the details. That's what I said in the first term. We would very much like to see implementing legislation quickly, because in such a process as elections, these practical matters are particularly important. I have seen this a number of times in person. Those things are important, purely to know what is meant, what is expected and what you must do. Now, with, for example, the Caribbean electoral college, there is a real lack of clarity about this. I would like to point out in abundance that Bonaire is simply a municipality of the Netherlands and also the 20th constituency in the Lower House elections. In that sense, this is a different situation than Aruba or other islands. Nevertheless, support, but very much emphasis on good implementing and practical implementing legislation. We'd like to give that to the minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u152	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Mrs Bikker has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate the Minister on the smooth way in which the legislative proposal on the constitutional review procedure passes through both chambers. I wish her great pleasure when she sees that for the first time come into force after the next Parliamentary elections, if it all succeeds in effectively completing the steps she outlined at the beginning of her reply. Mr. Chairman. I started my first term with the basic idea that my group supports the idea that Dutch people abroad should also be able to vote for the First Chamber. It's standing up. That is why we will support the other proposal before us. However, I have indicated what is important for my group at second reading. On that point, I would like to hear the Minister a little more precisely or simply make a commitment. I don't think that can hurt at all and isn't ruling over the grave, but a wonderful fulfillment of the office you have. As you do beautifully with promises made by your predecessors, this can also be done with constitutional articles that we are discussing here and on which you are making commitments. Otherwise it will be a very complicated debate. What I would therefore like to ask the Minister to do is to look at the following points. In fact, this is mostly about the implementing law which Mr Dittrich spoke of and which all colleagues spoke of in different keys for me. For my group, it is important that the weighting of the different fundamental rights that are at issue here and the state-law tradition be carefully weighed, even if we choose to make an exception to the way in which the First Chamber is elected, as is customary from the Provincial States. The Minister has promised to put that in a letter, but as far as we are concerned it must be part of the legal history and simply part of that implementing law itself. I attach great importance to this, because it is precisely this formal law that will determine what the constitutional article we are talking about today at first reading will look like. That is why for my party, for the Christian Union Group, it is really conditional to be able to do the second reading properly. I therefore encourage the Minister to be cheerful in her office and to dare to make promises in it that her successor or she herself, you know, but never then in a new period can give shape. Mr. Chairman. I welcomed the commitment to Mr Ganzevoort on a question that my group also asked, namely on the inclusion in implementing legislation of the principle of proportional representation. We attach great importance to this. My final point is one that Mr Ganzevoort has also made with emphasis. I wholeheartedly agree with that. This concerns the position of Dutch people in other places in the Kingdom. I was wrong about these nationalities; this changes in the example of Morocco and Aruba. But the Minister understands the essence of my speech, namely that it is strange that someone in Aruba cannot vote for the First Chamber and someone with a dual nationality in Morocco can? The moment we change this with this bill, that means something for the residents of the other countries of the Kingdom. I ask the Minister again, in all kindness and caution. It does not have to be procedural for me through Article 11 of the Statute, because it will then give a new explanation of the Statute. But surely it is civilized to inform other countries of the Kingdom how this is seen? I would love to see that, a fine example of how the relationship can be in the Kingdom, and that it is precisely this minister who is the flag carrier of it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u154	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u155	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for all the comments made in the second term. I walk by the speakers in order. First of all, Mr Van Hattem. He's putting residence at the centre. The way I see it, and I believe a majority in this Chamber too, with this proposal, we actually draw the Upper House equal to the Lower House. The same applies to the right to vote of non-residents. It is not the case that this proposal gives Dutch citizens the right to vote abroad in one way or another for the provinces. They get a right to vote in this Chamber, not in the provinces they don't live in. Hence the route through the electoral college. I would like to point out to Mr Van Hattem that the Upper House also represents the Dutch people. This is also the case in the Constitution. And that also applies to the part of the Dutch people who live abroad. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u156	I must conclude, however, that the Minister is always passing by, just as in the debate in the House of Representatives which I have read back, particularly with Mr Van Raak of the SP, who has asked a lot of questions about the system whereby in 1983 the Constitutionalist chose to take residence as the basis for the election of the First Chamber in order to establish the current Constitution. In fact, there is no solid justification at all why this system should be abandoned in order to be able to use this method. I think that is a fundamental flaw in the basis of this legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u157	Now we have finally found a point on which Mr Van Hattem and I agree. That is exactly the system we are going to change with this proposal. The choice for the First Chamber is now changed to a Constitution in which we say that Dutch people are having influence abroad, as non-residents, in the First Chamber, as they do for the Second Chamber. The system as it is is amended by this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u158	It is clear that with this bill the Minister is changing that system. But it concerns the interpretation, the reasoning of the character of residence, which has been established in this way by the constitution after lengthy discussions at the time. This is now being changed, but it does not explain why this amendment, this modification of the character of residence, is taken into account as an essential part of the system. The Minister only says that she is changing it now, but no clear explanation is given as to the nature of the residence itself. I think that is really a shortcoming in how we are constitutionally involved here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u159	I have added two more arguments. A fundamental argument is the Constitution itself, which states in Article 50 that the First Chamber represents the entire Dutch people. Two: the consideration that residence has not been interpreted in this way in the Lower House elections. So it is a change to a situation that, if you look closely at it, you could say: it can actually be better, and then you can also do more justice to what the Constitution is aiming at in that other article. So it's a change of the system, but there are very good arguments for it. And that Mr Van Hattem does not agree with those arguments is, of course, his right. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to Mr. Kox. It also made a few comments on the amendment to the constitutional amendment procedure. I could almost translate his words into "a small step for a man, but a giant step for mankind," so I'm pleased with his support for that. He also made a few more critical comments on the other proposal. Of the suggestion he made to me to dissolve the Chamber I might be able to dream at night, but I have no intention of doing so. Mr Schalk of the SGP referred to the implementing legislation that is indeed coming. Look, the situation he outlined is of course interesting to think about, because indeed: there may sometimes be a very short term sitting of the House of Representatives. By the way, I would say that in our Dutch relations an ultra-short term of the House of Representatives would soon be a month or eight; very much shorter is almost impossible to imagine. Anyway, I admit it could happen. I told Mrs Bikker that I could, of course, send a letter to the House of Representatives. But in that situation it might even be possible that the implementing law would have to be filed in order to enable the House of Representatives to do that second reading. So it seems unlikely to me, but not impossible. So I'll give him that: his interpretation is correct. Then I am with Mr Ganzevoort, who said that the second reading includes the implementing law. That's actually the same point. I understand that it needs a speedy execution, and I admit it. I already made him that other promise. Now the issue of the Dutch abroad versus the Dutch in the Kingdom, and with that I also respond immediately to Mrs Bikker's question on that point. What I just argued is not new at all. This interpretation of Article 11 of the Statute is therefore in fact a widely accepted and undisputed explanation. Why? Because it is not about Dutch citizenship, because we are not changing this proposal at all, but because it is about the right to vote. And the right to vote has, in fact, always been interpreted as a matter of country and therefore not a matter of the Kingdom. If you were to reverse the situation and change the country's voting rights, we would not be expected to interfere. So it's really a common explanation. If we wanted it to be different, I believe that this should include a broader discussion. That was just the interrupting debate I had with Mr Ganzevoort. We also agreed that this could be done, but within a broader context, and we would therefore find it inappropriate to do so through this proposal. I would like to say to Mr Dittrich: speedy speed, including in implementing legislation. Indeed I have heard that with the others, and I agree; that is right and I understand that. Mr Otten once again drew attention to implementing legislation under the motto "the devil is in the detail." That's what I heard. I also agree with him that these aspects of implementing legislation, namely how things actually work and how things work, are very important. So that's what I'm going to make sure of. I'll take it with me in that letter I promised. Finally, Mrs Bikker's other comments. It also supports the change of procedure. Of course, I love hearing that and I'm very happy about that. I have already made commitments on how, for example, we should deal with proportional representation in that implementing law. I said that in my first term. The weighting of fundamental rights, I think, was something Mrs Bikker specifically asked for. In this respect, I would also like to say that I am very happy to include it. I think I have already replied to her last remark, as I saw it in the Staff Regulations. I am not going to repeat it again, but I do not think that by the way we organized it within the Kingdom, we are wronging the people who, for example, live on Aruba, Curaçao or Sint-Maarten at the time when we are going to grant that right to vote to Dutch people abroad, on the contrary. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u160	I thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-8.u161	I have come to deal with the legislative proposals. First, the bill 35418, Declaration that there is reason to consider a proposal to change the Constitution to include a provision on an electoral college elected by non-residents for the election of the First Chamber of the States General. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next Tuesday. I also propose that we vote next week on the motion tabled. Finally, the Law 35419, Declaration that there is reason to consider a proposal for a change in the Constitution of the provision on changes in the Constitution (revised Constitutional Review Procedure). Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next Tuesday. Then we have come to the end of the sitting. I would like to thank all the Members and staff who made this meeting possible and wish you all well at home.
