ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u1	We will begin today's first debate, the 30-member debate on political re-education camps in the Chinese province of Xinjiang, with Mr Kuzu of DENK as the first speaker. Of course, a very warm welcome to the Minister and a warm welcome to the people in the public gallery. Mr Kuzu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What transcends our imagination is currently taking place in the Chinese province of Xinjiang. According to Amnesty International, there are 1 million Uighurs locked in political re-education camps, where they are tortured and brainwashed. There, Uighur women are forced to marry a Chinese man by a so-called rehabilitation program. That's where Uighurs have to download an app on their phone, so the Chinese authorities can see any action a Uighur is doing. For a Uighur here in the Netherlands, a critical vote against the Chinese regime means that there are reprisals against family members there. That's why Uighurs here, some of them for years, haven't been able to contact their families and loved ones. Mr. Chairman. How wretched is it for the Uighurs that we are here celebrating 75 years of liberation, while they are dealing with oppression every moment of the day. Because at the celebration of the 75th year of the liberation of the occupying forces during the Second World War we know as no other what oppression of religion means, we must not be silent and watch. The world must not be silent and watch. We must not allow the interests of trade with China to prevail over the suffering of the Uighurs. In the Minister's letter we read that the cabinet is deeply concerned, but a conviction remains out, while the cabinet acknowledges that the political re-education camps exist. Is the government prepared to condemn the crimes against the Uighurs by strongly condemning the Chinese regime and calling China to stop doing so? Mr. Chairman. First of all, as the Netherlands, we have a responsibility as a country and then as a member of international bodies such as the EU and the UN. So before we grind these crimes of the Chinese regime against the Uighurs in the slow grinding mills of international gremia, we need to look at what we can do ourselves, for example through the Human Rights Fund, to help improve human rights in China. Can the government indicate how much of that effort is aimed at the Uighurs? Is the government prepared to increase support for the Uighurs through the Human Rights Fund? Mr. Chairman. In addition, we must, of course, become a driving force in international forums and enter into partnerships with similar countries. At the UN, we must obtain support for an independent investigation mission in Xinjiang and an observation mission to monitor human rights. In the EU, we need to obtain support for personal sanctions against those involved in the crimes, such as Chen Quanguo, the party officer in Xinjiang who is responsible for human rights violations. Mr President, my final point. What the House of Representatives in the United States can and must do, we can. They have almost unanimously adopted a bill calling for sanctions against China for the repression of the Uyghur Human Rights Policy Act. Is the government prepared to follow this exceptionally good American example? Mr. Chairman. I hope that today, at least for the Uighurs in the Netherlands, but also for the Uighurs who are dealing with daily oppression, we will be able to send out a message from this Parliament in one voice today, namely: we have not forgotten you. I hope that we can take steps to make their suffering part of the past, so that they, like us, can one day celebrate their freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you. Mrs Karabulut of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. About a million Muslims in the western province of Xinjiang in China no one knows exactly how many people have been arrested and imprisoned in so-called re-education camps in recent years. No fair trials preceded that. There were no trials at all. In the camps, where mainly Uighurs but also other minorities are locked up, torture and other forms of abuse occur regularly, until death. The prisoners are being indoctrinated. That even goes so far that praise songs must be sung on the Chinese leader, "long live Xi Jinping." Also outside the detention centers there is great repression in Xinjiang. There has been a direct war against the culture of Chinese minorities in this province. All kinds of political and religious expressions are forbidden. A vast, in-depth network of surveillance has been set up to monitor its own citizens. It's mandatory DNA delivery. Installing apps on your phone. Neighbors watching you. These are just a few examples that illustrate that there is no privacy anymore. The black future scenario described by George Orwell more than 70 years ago in his dystopian novel 1984 has become reality in Xinjiang. Big Brother is watching you, everywhere. It's a gross disgrace. What can we do about this? First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to human rights in Xinjiang. I read that all kinds of diplomatic actions have been taken to address China. That's good. I urge the Minister to continue with this and not to shy away from the publicity. I would like to hear from the Minister on what future issues the Netherlands and the EU will once again draw attention to the massive human rights violations in Xinjiang. It is very important that we continue to insist on access to Xinjiang for international organisations such as the UN and human rights organisations. The cabinet must also do everything in its power to prevent any unwanted interference by China in our country. It is crucial that no contribution is made from the Netherlands to human rights violations in Xinjiang. That's what I'm worried about, really worried about. Answers to written questions from colleagues from GroenLinks and D66 show that Dutch products are also being used for repression. For example, it is a question of software that reads emotions. During a recent debate on China, a motion was adopted asking the government to take action at national level no later than the summer, if necessary. The Minister refers to efforts by the Netherlands to extend the obligation to export such products, but points out that there is insufficient support for this in the EU. How is that possible? Which countries are at odds here? The Minister points out the responsibility of Dutch companies, but that does not work. It is important to map this, to get a good picture of the extent to which the export of technology may contribute to human rights violations in Xinjiang from the Netherlands. Will the Minister have this investigated? In this way, we get a clear picture of what is going on and the Minister knows who to address. Finally, Mr President. Human Rights Watch calls for personal sanctions against those responsible for making the lives of minorities in Xinjiang miserable. Chen Quanguo, who is in charge of repression in the province, is specifically mentioned. Can the Minister respond to this? Does he want to make an effort to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. I call Mr Koopmans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are having a debate on China here today. Of course, we cannot do that without speaking about the people in Wuhan who are now suffering from the great threat of the corona virus. I express my condolences on that. But today, of course, we are talking about the situation of the Uighurs. Mr Kuzu and Mr Karabulut have already mentioned examples of how terrible that situation is. I think that we should also express our condolences on this. In reports we read horrible reports about re-education camps that would be there. It sounds like a police state. It has also been mentioned: George Orwell seems to have been reborn as a Uighur. There are major arrests and digital repressions. There are, of course, major differences between China and the Netherlands. We should not try to impose our standards and values on them. But there are important shared values and standards that China also supports. China is also a party that has ratified the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It contains Article 9, the prohibition of arbitrary arrest, and Article 12, the ban on interfering in private life and respect for the secret of letters. It also contains Article 18 on freedom of religion. Those articles must be respected. China also says that they are respected. If we share these values and standards, I think it is right that the government should address China. It's a good thing the government's already putting a lot in there. I would like to ask that we do so as much Europeanly and collectively as possible, including within the United Nations, so that we stand together and that we make it clear together that there may be differences between China and the Netherlands and between China and Europe, but that there are certain essential things that we share. Those are the standards and they are in that Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Everyone has to respect that. It's definitely time for that now. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you. Before you leave, Mr Kuzu has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u8	In any case, it is very nice to hear from the colleague of the VVD that he shows compassion for what is happening in Xinjiang at the moment. Is the VVD prepared to strongly condemn the events he has just described?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u9	I think Mr Kuzu has just heard me and I have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u10	I'm assuming that's a yes when it comes to a sharp conviction. After a harsh condemnation comes of course what needs to be done. The VVD has indicated that we need to look up international gremia. The VVD knows better than anyone that this is slow, that there are countries that are obstructed and that it does not come to action in the end. What responsibility for the Netherlands does the VVD see in the case of human rights violations in China and what should be done by the Netherlands according to the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u11	First of all, we need to be strong together. If we really want to have an impact on that horrible situation in China, then we need to look where we are strong. We are strong when we do this together with our European friends, with our wider friends in the world, in the UN. Let us, above all, do this together. In addition, it is very good that we have this situation in bilateral talks. That's what's gonna happen. I can say that I speak regularly with the Chinese ambassador and I can assure Mr Kuzu that the situation of the Uighurs will also arise. I think we should all take responsibility, but above all we should make sure that we are strong and that we do not let ourselves be separated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u12	I share that completely: we have to be strong. Sometimes it is so that the VVD also knows that it is difficult to get those 28 EU countries and all those members of the international community in the UN aligned. Is the VVD, for example, quite specifically willing, as we have done in Myanmar, to take personalised actions against those responsible for human rights violations there, also within the framework of an EU sanctions regime? That's what Human Rights Watch called for. This is a very concrete example on which the VVD can express itself here in the Netherlands, today in this Parliament. Are you willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u13	I would like to thank Mr Kuzu very specifically for supporting the initiative to support a trial in the International Court of Justice with regard to Myanmar and the Rohingyas with me and many others here. That trial's going on now, too. It is good that we form a common front there. As far as personal sanctions for China are concerned, such a mechanism is now being worked on in Europe. That's being set up right now. Once that is done, it must then be done. But I do not think that we should put specific names, people and situations here, because it is first important that we set up this mechanism. But the concerns about the situation, the need to do something about it and everyone's responsibility to do something about it, I fully share with Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you. Mrs Ploumen, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u15	"Prevent escape. Manage the locks and keys strictly. Don't let them get out of sight. Let them repent for the criminal and dangerous nature. And with everything you do, don't show any pity at all." These are the leaked instructions from the highest level of the Communist Party of China to Chinese government agencies. What we already knew is confirmed by the China Cables. China is guilty of the mass detention of nearly 1 million Uighurs in the province of Xinjiang. It is almost impossible to imagine: a country that makes 1 million people disappear into camps. They were taken from their families, from their loved ones, from their village, from their city. When addressed, the Chinese government responds by saying that there are different ways to approach human rights and that countries should not interfere with domestic affairs. But if the rights of Uighurs are so systematically, systematically and massively violated, the international community, the Netherlands and the EU must stand up for these people, speak out and defend universal human rights together. Mr. Chairman. This debate has been requested by Mr Kuzu. It could not have been better in time, even though every measure is too late. With the documents in hand and in view of the stories we have heard from Uighur family members who are locked up, I believe that the only right question in today's debate is: how do we scale up our efforts to call China to account? That is my main question to the Minister. I have a number of short partial questions to ask. Mr. Chairman. First thanks to the Minister for what he has done so far. Does he agree with me that we should scale up now? Is it possible, I ask the Minister, to take an initiative towards the UN Security Council? Earlier, a number of countries wrote a letter to the UN Security Council. Of course, there will be a veto from China, but is it not worth considering, I ask the Minister, to take all kinds of steps to make it clear to China, but also to the Uighurs, that we have not forgotten them and that we do not accept this? We also need to look at what we can do ourselves, in the Netherlands. So we should not only focus on the UN Security Council and the Human Rights Council. What can we do here? Mr Karabulut already asked a number of questions about this and colleagues Van Ojik and Sjoerdsma have asked written questions to the Minister. I wonder what else is needed to bring down hesitant EU countries. What can the minister do there? Finally, Mr President. In the United States, preparations are being made for the introduction of targeted sanctions by means of a Uyghur Act. Is the Minister prepared to work at EU level to ensure that this example is followed and that the steps needed to do so are quickly followed up by Mr Koopmans on these steps, so that a condemnation of what is happening in China will be accompanied by measures that are actually effective? Finally, Mr President. I trust that the Minister, together with us, will condemn this firmly and out loud. I ask him not only to continue his efforts so far, but also to scale them further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you. I call Mr Van Ojik van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday during a petition offer, a young Uighur woman told us that she has been trying for four years in vain to hear about her mother, her brother and her sister, who are imprisoned in a detention camp in Xinjiang and who cannot in any way make contact with their family, just as their family cannot make contact with them. Meanwhile, the Uighur community here in the Netherlands feels the pressure of the Chinese government not to speak publicly about these abuses and, even worse, the family in China that is not in the camps, also feels that pressure every day. Mr. Chairman. This morning, through a major article in Trouw, it was announced that KPN has developed an app, together with a Chinese company, in which information about Chinese people who are here in the Netherlands is collected and shared with the Chinese government. In light of the story I heard yesterday, I would like to ask the Minister what he actually thinks of this. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that by enclosing Uighurs massively in criminal camps, China is guilty of large-scale and systematic violations of human rights. The cabinet is doing a lot; colleagues have said that, and I am happy to endorse that. But we must acknowledge that it has little, or rather no, effect. That's why, and Mrs Ploumen said it, we need scaling up. In the United States of America, as well as in the United States of America, we have already talked about this by means of legislation, which increases pressure through sanctions against individuals and companies. I do not want to argue that we are blindly following that line of the US Trump administration, because imposing sanctions without a specific purpose, because you are indignant about something, makes little sense and can undermine the dialogue. But in this case, there is no dialogue. And it can't get started until we get access to Xinjiang for independent observers. Sanctions with a clear objective of achieving such access can then help. You can think of sanctions against individuals, ladies and gentlemen, talking about this in anticipation of the European Magnitsky Act. You can also think of measures against Chinese tech companies, which we know contribute to the suppression of Uighurs, such as Huawei, Hikvision and Dahua. Since last summer, American companies are no longer allowed to supply technological goods to these and other companies on the Entity List. As a result, they have shifted their supply chain and are now buying them in, among other things, the Netherlands. Huawei now uses audio chips from TomTom's Eindhoven NXP and cards for his latest generation of smartphones. Does the Minister intend to work for a European Entity List in Brussels following the American example? I, too, have read that there is little support for this, but I would ask the Minister to help create that support. Finally, Mr President. We're buying in, too. We have a socially responsible purchasing policy in the Netherlands, and we also buy in from Chinese companies involved in the repression of the Uighurs in Xinjiang. I would like to ask the Minister whether he could put an end to this purchasing practice, in which the Dutch government itself is working on the buttons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u18	Thank you. I call Mr Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mr. Chairman. "The Chinese government respects and protects human rights." "Xinjiang is peaceful and stable." "There will also be more tourists, so the economy is doing well." And: "These are not concentration camps at all, they are just centres for education and training." So says the Chinese ambassador Xu Hong in one of his many interviews this week. It is surreal, Madam President; surreal. And the story of this ambassador is, of course, in stark contrast to the leaked documents of the Chinese government, the China Cables, with reports from several human rights organizations and with stories from ex-convicts. Those stories reveal a picture of systematic oppression. "Reeducation camps" are a euphemism for something much and much worse. And the cabinet has also recognised for a long time that 1 to 1.5 million people are trapped in camps, that there is abuse and indoctrination, and that the whole area suffers from the very penetrating mass surveillance, the mandatory collection of DNA and cameras on every street corner. If even a quarter of all these stories are true, it's horrible what's happening. Then what does China say about these evidences? "This is about terrorism. We're re-educationing. Our human rights are collective. Stay out of it." Mr. Chairman. Ambassador Xu Hong also said something in the newspaper that I found interesting. He said, "The people of Xinjiang are now happier than before. Come and see." That's what I thought: that seems like a nice opening for this minister to go into. Let's go check it out. Let us ensure that there is an independent investigation team from the United Nations as soon as possible to clarify what is happening there and to take action to stop it. My party D66 has been insisting for some time now, just like several parties in this Chamber. The Cabinet wants that, too. The cabinet has been on the Human Rights Council since 1 January. I ask this Minister how he has worked on this in the Human Rights Council. Is there a broad coalition yet to get that research team off the ground? Keep bringing this up until that mission arrives, I'll tell the minister. Because human rights are individual and universal. Colleague Van Ojik asked about KPN. I agree with those questions. Finally, I would like to say a few words about China's unacceptable intimidation of Uighur refugees and their families in China. The Minister notes, and I find that very worrying, that this is increasing. For us, for D66, this kind of foreign interference is unacceptable. It must be clear to this group of people that they can live here freely and safely, that they can report here and that their report is taken seriously. I ask the Minister to work together with Europe on this issue, in the Foreign Affairs Council, in the Human Rights Council and bilaterally, to make it clear to China that we do not accept this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u20	There is a question from Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u21	Is the D66 Group prepared, also as a driver of European Magnitsky legislation, to advocate personal sanctions against Chinese officials?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u22	Yes, if it is clear which officials are responsible for the crimes in Xinjiang, we are prepared to argue for that. But I do say to Mr Kuzu: if you want those sanctions to actually happen, we need to convince the international community that this is happening. We are convinced of this, but the big problem is, of course, that China denies it and that many allies of China, unfortunately also Arab allies, deny it with China. That is why I am calling as a first step for a UN Committee of Inquiry, because then the facts will be established neutrally, internationally. Then China can't deny it anymore. Then it can't look away and we can punish those responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u23	One is, of course, connected with the other when there is a sanction or a person-oriented sanction. Of course, this must be done at EU level, because then, as the VVD rightly pointed out, we will be strong together. So we also need to convince a number of European Member States. But these sanctions are precisely designed to ensure that access to the province of Xinjiang is made, so that we can objectively observe what is happening. The question is very specific: the one is connected with the other, isn't it? It's not cause, effect and step one and step two, is it? No, those cases go hand in hand, don't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u24	Two things must go hand in hand, namely increasing the pressure on China to allow a United Nations commission of inquiry and to stop these practices, and building an international coalition to actually give that pressure teeth. This is, of course, primarily about the European Union, as Mr Kuzu rightly says, but it is also wider. I am sometimes surprised that we as the European Union stand up for this, when there is silence in countries such as Pakistan, which often speak loudly about the views of the PVV on Muslims, for example, when this happens on this scale in China. I think that's a double size that can't be. We must also convince those countries to join us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u25	I fully agree with Mr Sjoerdsma. In the past, Mr Sjoerdsma has strongly advocated the establishment of personalised sanctions from the EU in relation to Iran. I would also like to argue in favour of that in this case. I would like D66's support to address the situation in China in exactly the same way, as Mr Sjoerdsma has been working for personalised sanctions in relation to Iran. That's my whole question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u26	I think Mr Kuzu repeats his first question. I think I've answered that positively. But I would like to remind Mr Kuzu that it is very important that you also want it to be effective. So if those sanctions are there, you want them to go to work. That can only be done, I say to Mr Kuzu, if the United Nations has been there too, if that research is there. That is also how geopolitically the smaller Netherlands did it with Yemen. A committee of inquiry regularly delivered a report to the Human Rights Council and suddenly there was the possibility of exerting pressure on Saudi Arabia, even to arms embargoes. This is sometimes frustrating and sometimes takes a long time, but that is a route that we will have to follow here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u27	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u28	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u29	I call Mr Van Helvert of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u30	Thank you, Madam President. It has been almost two years since a very large group of Uighur people, some of whom are also present here in the public gallery here in The Hague, protesting for the rights of Uighurs. A lot of people were wondering: Uighurs, what are they? Where the hell is that? No one really knew about it. Due to the continued commitment of these people, we can see that in the Netherlands more is known about what horrors take place in China. In the Netherlands, of course, geopolitically, we find it very difficult to discuss this with a country at a time when we have great economic interests, because this can be at the expense of economic affairs with the Netherlands, with Europe. But at the moment when we cannot earn anything from a country, for example Syria, we are all immediately ready to condemn the leaders, not to do anything with them and not to speak with them. That is the political madness of geopolitics. So that's what we have to act with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u31	Let me make a brief comment. Mr Van Helvert is talking about his own words, but he is always talking about 'we' and that 'we' would not be prepared to take action if we think that human rights are being violated. I would simply like to tell him that this does not apply to the Labour Party. He's always willing to do that. The same goes for the SP. And that also applies when the Labour Party is in a cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u32	Just so you know, Mr. Van Helvert!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u33	That sounds a bit like Peter also said: "But I don't, Lord." But let's not be like this, let's not tell each other it's not us. Let's see what we can do together. For I also know Cabinets in which the Labour Party was in which there were also people who are now MPs and who have done nothing against China when there was enough to condemn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u34	I have reason to believe that you have now challenged Mrs Ploumen enough to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u35	We are here to debate what this cabinet can do about the situation of the Uighurs in China. I do not think it is right for Mr Van Helvert to refer to actions taken by a previous cabinet and to give a false picture of them. That's a distraction. I call him to speak for himself. The Labour Party is prepared to examine with the Cabinet what we can do to convince China that we are not just watching them lock up 1 million Uighurs. So I would ask Mr Van Helvert not to involve the Labour Party in considerations that would lead to not doing so at all. This isn't the first time. So let us try to conduct the debate fairly and neatly, because that is really in the interests of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u36	Talking to each other doesn't mean it's unfair. And if the shoe fits, put it on. Mrs Ploumen was the only one who thought it was necessary to interrupt me when I started, and then she gets an answer. You can, because that's why we're here. We want to be able to address each other in this country. That is what is so beautiful about the Netherlands, and that is what can be done; it cannot be done in China. If you're being addressed and disagreed, that doesn't mean something's unfair. This is also part of a debate. The fact that the past of Cabinets is included is also part of a debate. We're not just talking about today, we're talking about yesterday, today and tomorrow. Yesterday there were human rights violations and that is getting worse in China. If we don't do something, it's gonna get worse tomorrow. That is why we stand here and I believe that Mrs Ploumen and I and all the others are very much in favour of each other. I would certainly like to make two points for today. As far as the Uyghur Act in the Congress of the United States is concerned, it is important that we look at what we can learn from it. We do not have to do exactly the same thing as the United States, but where they are faster and better, for example through legislation in such a Uyghur Act, I think we need to learn from that. I ask the cabinet how it is going to ensure that we too can go to China to conduct independent investigations into the criminal camps but also into the forced labour that takes place outside the criminal camps. If you're from a penal camp, there's still forced labour. This requires international independent research. What's the Minister gonna do about it? My second point concerns what we can do as the Netherlands itself, because that is the first thing you will have to do with Europe. It is good in itself that Dutch local authorities make work visits to China. The fact that they maintain economic links with sister cities and sister regions in China is fine, but they often know nothing about the human rights violations there and it is not a discussion point either. I believe that, as a Dutch government, we have a responsibility to have an information point so that when local authorities visit China for economic matters, they get a package that will tell them what is going on in the context of human rights violations, in the sense that it is clear that the strengthening of economic ties there is about the back of people who are forced to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u37	I found it interesting that Mr Van Helvert said that we should look at that American law, that Uyghur Act, and that we should learn from it. I wondered what he himself had to learn from that, especially since that law specifically states that certain items should no longer be delivered to companies doing business with China. Hence, Chinese companies are migrating to Dutch companies. I just mentioned a few. That's the effect of that law. So I was wondering if the CDA would like to do the same for the Netherlands. I'd love to, but it's nice to hear that from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u38	If you as a company know that your equipment is used, for example, in organ robbery or to hold people in a penal camp, then you have to ask yourself if that's why you set up the company. Then there is the question of whether we should do exactly the same thing as the United States. I agree with him; in the Netherlands we are also used to working differently, but I do think that we should ask the cabinet what we can take with us and how we can implement these lessons learned in the Dutch situation. I do not know exactly how to do that, but for that we have hired a minister who can find out with his officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u39	I am also in favour of asking the Minister to find out, but it is also good to know where we stand politically. The US legislation means that American companies no longer supply certain items to Chinese companies involved in the repression of the Uighurs in Xinjiang. Those specific Chinese companies then buy the same products that they can no longer buy in the US, for example in the Netherlands. We are here today to see how we can increase the pressure on China. I've heard everyone say that so far. This could be something like that, in the sense that we say that Dutch companies should no longer do so. I wonder whether Mr Van Helvert agrees with me in principle and then ask the Minister to find out how that might be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u40	In principle, I agree with Mr Van Ojik and so we know each other. I will say that we must do this together with other European countries. Because you can say that we should do it as the Netherlands, but if they don't do it in Belgium, Luxembourg or Germany, we haven't won anything yet. The Netherlands can't really do anything alone when it comes to foreign policy. I see Mr Van Ojik nodding, so he feels the same way. What we can do ourselves is perhaps Mr Van Ojik thinks that a good idea too is to inform very clearly about the situation in Xinjiang or other places in China where we know there are human rights violations. Madam President. I have another question for the Minister: what is the government's position on human rights violations? The cabinet says that it is very likely that human rights violations will take place. International research and the Xinjiang Papers indicate very clearly that human rights violations have occurred. The EU is relatively silent about this, but the United States, the United Kingdom and Germany are very clear about it. Madam President. I see that my time is running out, but I have one final question to ask the Minister: how do we deal with the growing coalition that China is making in the United Nations? Because China is becoming more and more committed, even EU countries such as Serbia. They write in letters to the UN Human Rights Council that it is not so serious in China. The Arab League, too, has been following China and has said that we must not act like one. How can we combat this game in the United Nations? What plans does the Minister have to put an end to that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u41	Thank you. I call Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u42	Thank you, Mr President. We celebrate 75 years of freedom here. We are going to Auschwitz with the entire Chamber because we must never forget the atrocities that have taken place there. For the 1 million to 1.5 million Uighurs in China, horrors are not yet a thing of the past. Family members are terrified. Will they ever see their loved ones again? The strong condemnation of this actually feels like the minimum we can do as the Netherlands, as an individual country. Why hasn't that happened yet? What more can we, as the Netherlands, do? We need to do more. I agree with the previous speakers who have already made many suggestions, such as calling for personal sanctions against those responsible. But we must also be able to impose sanctions independently of the international community, the UN and the EU. Mr. Chairman. What does the Minister of the bizarre statement by the Chinese ambassador, Xu Hong, think that the Dutch criticism of China and the interference is unacceptable? The Netherlands is China's third trading partner in the EU. We can make demands. We have to make demands. We must always let human rights go for trade. What does the Minister think of the abuses at KPN, a former state-owned company, with regard to the app of Tencent with which the Uighurs in the Netherlands are thoroughly controlled? The manager said KPN's moral compass is broken. How are things with the moral compass of this cabinet and this minister? What is he going to do to bring these human rights violations to an end? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u43	Thank you. Finally, Mr De Roon of the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u44	Mr. Chairman. In Eastern Turkestan, because that's what the Uighurs themselves call the area that Chinese like to call "Xinjiang," Muslim terrorists started cutting knives on civilians at the train station in Kunming on 1 March 2014. The cowardly and brutal terrorist attack that evening led to an unprecedented massacre, with 31 dead and over 140 injured, one of the bloodiest Islamic attacks in China in a series of thousands of attacks that took place between 1990 and 2016. For the political leaders in China, this was enough. They felt that something had to be done to stop that terror. China didn't want conditions like in Europe. China was also not in the mood for a caliphate as in Syria and Iraq.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u45	I would like to summarise what Mr De Roon of the PVV has said so far: 'There has been a terrorist attack. Then 1 million people are locked up in re-education camps, Korans are taken away and mosques are closed. It's actually de-islamizing in practice." Is it actually a bit of the PVV's dream what is happening in China, this de-islamizing in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u46	Kuzu is ahead of what I am going to say, because you have not yet heard my judgment on this course of action. You have not yet heard my opinion of this presentation of facts, so I would say: sit down in the benches and wait for what I have to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u47	I'll decide where I stand myself. I am now at the interrupting microphone and I have a question for Mr De Roon. I asked that question for the following reason. If Mr De Roon starts his speech with an attack, while we are talking here about re-education camps, concentration camps, in the 75th year of the liberation of the Netherlands, is he still engaged in a complete charade here that does no justice whatsoever to what is happening there and to the emotions of people who have relatives there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u48	It is always good to place things in the full perspective and not allow yourself to be ruled by emotions alone, as Mr Kuzu seems to advocate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u49	We are waiting for Mr De Roon's further statement. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u50	So China didn't want to be in a situation like that in Europe, and they didn't want to be in a caliphate either. And so there was a performance, hard action. Education camps were pounded out of the ground and prisons were filled. And where there was difficulty in stopping Islamic terrorism from taking action in Europe and the Netherlands, the Chinese put both their hands together. This violence can therefore be explained, because an Islamic wave of terror has flooded the northern hemisphere over the last decade, from West Africa to far in Asia. The Chinese found out by terror that one, the Islamic ideology does not adapt but demands adaptation, and two, that it is an ideology full of hatred and violence. And so that came hard, and I must say effective, Chinese policy there too. But of course China is not playing the game according to our rules, not everyone gets a fair trial there and terrorism is being fought with a dragnet in which many innocent citizens also linger. That can never be properly talked. Of course, we also want everyone to get a fair trial if there is a suspicion of a criminal offence, but should it be the case that we, from The Hague, have to teach the Chinese a lesson about how to deal with Muslim extremists, as if we have the magic formula in our hands? Mr. Chairman. The question is, of course, if the Muslims in Eastern Turkestan are dealt with in this way, what does the Islamic world really think of that? Mr Erdogan initially had a big mouth on that to the Chinese, but he too has already come to his knees for the Chinese power and the Chinese money. He was visiting China last year, and I quote literally, "It is a fact that the peoples of Xinjiang live a happy life in China's development and prosperity. China and Turkey share a vision for the future." And no more critical words about the treatment of the Uighurs. The UN Human Rights Council only published a letter of 50 members, keeping China's human rights policy completely out of the blue. In the organisation of Islamic States, a resolution was adopted that praises China for its efforts for the well-being of the Uighurs. China, of course, called for that to be a commendable resolution. So the rhetorical question "what does the Islamic world do?" I can answer with: nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u51	This is, of course, real... What delusions, what sadness, what sadness we see here: sketch a causal link between a number of extremists on the one hand and sanctions against 1 million people on the other, against a whole population group, against a group of people who adhere to the same religion. This actually makes it clear what the PVV's agenda is in the Netherlands, namely...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u52	What's your question, Mr. Kuzu?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u53	That's where I come in, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u54	But please...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u55	In any case, I find the causal link to be unfair. We have a question for the PVV. He talks about the responsibility of the world, about what Arab countries are doing and about what all kinds of other countries are doing. Does the PVV judge here in the Dutch Parliament, by their own role and responsibility, what is currently happening in China? I refer to the de-Islamic practices, to the fact that Qurans are being taken away, that mosques are being closed and that a whole group of people with the same religion are being suppressed because of their religion. Does the PVV condemn that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u56	I have already mentioned this in my term. I would add this: the PVV condemns the repression of religions in China, because not only the Uighurs are targets, Christians are equally good. 130 million Christians in China suffer daily from repression by the Chinese state. That Chinese state wants to suppress the environment, too. I am looking at Hong Kong and Taiwan, for example. We must also be aware of this. That's why I believe that if you want to respond towards China, you shouldn't focus on one thing. You have to look at the whole package and have an adequate, solid answer to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u57	I note from this answer from the PVV that the PVV condemns everything that is happening in China with regard to human rights violations. I also note that today's debate is about the fact that the PVV explicitly condemns the repression of the Uighurs and human rights violations against the Uighurs. I'll draw that conclusion. If that's wrong, I'd like to hear it from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u58	I said what I said, and I'm sticking with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u59	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'll suspend until 11:15 and then we'll listen to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u60	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are discussing the human rights situation in Xinjiang today after some delay, and unfortunately there is every reason to do so. Like all Members of Parliament who have spoken, I, like colleagues in the cabinet, am very concerned about the human rights situation in Xinjiang. In fact, all members of the Chamber outlined in their contributions the reports that have come out in recent times and which reflect the existence of reeducation camps as they are called. The estimates of the number of people trapped therein range from several hundred thousand to one and a half million. That is also a very large part of the population of Xinjiang. There's a massively increased police force to control people. There are considerable restrictions on the press and on the access of the international community. Despite these limitations, more and more images and reports of human rights have recently been released in Xinjiang. That has long been reason for the cabinet to express our concerns in every possible way. Thank you to the Members of Parliament who expressed their appreciation for this. We do this directly in our contacts with China. In addition, we do so internationally. There is a strong common thread through the China strategy of the cabinet. In order to be effective in defending human rights, there is first and foremost action at European level. In addition, we prefer, of course, many broader coalitions. That is the only effective and logical way forward. That is what our full commitment is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u62	Before you continue, Minister, I just forgot to cancel Mr. Sjoerdsma. He's having an interim general discussion on terrorism. After that, he'll be back here as soon as possible. Mr. Kuzu, the minister had just begun. Do you have a question yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u63	Definitely Chairman. I have learned that in the diplomatic world words listen very closely. We read that in the Minister's letter. He says he's very concerned about what's going on there. One level further is about a conviction and another level further is about a sharp condemnation. I would like to ask the Minister whether he condemns what the Chinese government is doing about the Uighurs or whether he leaves it to serious concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u64	It is about achieving effect and not about saying words. As I just said and as we discussed earlier in the framework of the China Strategy, it is crucial for the impact that the Netherlands is part of a broad coalition. That has our full commitment. Indeed, words have their meaning in diplomacy. In previous debates, I have already indicated that if the Netherlands only uses diplomatically strong language or wants to use an instrument, I will come back to sanctions which have an opposite effect. The country that appeals to you, in this case China, can say that only one or two countries use this level from the diplomatic toolbox and the rest do not. So it can never be so bad what they do. The diplomatic instruments, apart from the many direct contacts that both I and colleagues have in the cabinet, are used in a coalition context. This also applies to the use of terms which Mr Kuzu is now referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u65	I cannot escape the impression that we want to achieve effect. But words also have effect; words have a certain charge. If we look at what is happening there, we can see that there are countries in the world where there are fewer bad things that happen, but which we strongly condemn, so I try to follow what the minister says there. But it would also be a good thing if we, from the Netherlands and from our own responsibility, said to each other: what is happening there is unacceptable, unacceptable, and that is why we strongly condemn it? This is quite apart from what, of course, needs to be done in the international community and in international forums. Why should we not be able to say ourselves: we strongly condemn this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u66	It is precisely from the responsibility of the Netherlands, to which Mr Kuzu refers, that it is important that we always have the effect in mind. The Netherlands has a great tradition of defending human rights and upholding international law. The Netherlands must therefore, from that very position and tradition, prevent us, by using diplomatic instruments unilaterally and alone, from getting an image where they say: there they are again. Fortunately, we have the image of a country that seeks coalitions, which is really going for the effect through consultation. We do this through consultation and, where necessary, through pressure, but then pressure based on first consultation and then cooperation. We have to keep that image. We're a country that's really going for the effect. And that is not the effect of: look what we dare to say. But that is the effect of: how can we actually achieve what we want to achieve, even if, I fear, it still seems a long way away? How can we achieve a real improvement in the human rights situation in Xinjiang, or wider in China?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u67	Mr. Kuzu, be very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u68	I am not always enthusiastic about the diplomatic relations between the Netherlands and the United States, and I have often said that the Netherlands is chasing the United States. But in this exceptional case, the United States has strongly condemned the attitude of the Chinese government. Why can the Foreign Minister of the Netherlands, in this exceptional case, not seek membership with the United States?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u69	Again because of the effect. The United States has its own policy towards China. This is part of it. Some parts of it we share and others we don't share. The United States is the largest economy in the world and also has the largest army in the world. I am very proud of the Netherlands. Our country is sixty-sixth in terms of population and has the seventeenth economy. So that's what we're really good at. Our country is the 96th place I thought in terms of defence expenditure. And the reality is that we are working in a coalition context. Once again, the Netherlands plays a leading role in this, a role which is often difficult, but which is appreciated. But the Netherlands is not the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u70	I know what the Minister's saying. The Netherlands alone, of course, cannot do anything. But as a result of these Xinjiang Papers, not only the American Government, but also the governments of the United Kingdom, Germany and Japan have spoken very clearly against that situation in Xinjiang. So what's the consideration of not joining that coalition? And the follow-up question is whether I understand correctly that it is the Dutch Government's commitment or whether it is to arrive at a widely supported condemnation in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u71	I do not share Mr Van Helvert's words that we do not agree with this coalition. We have recently organised a side event on the Uighurs in the Human Rights Council, together with the United States, Germany, the United Kingdom, Canada and Australia. We sent a letter with 24 countries on the situation in Xinjiang to the President of the Human Rights Council. We have written a joint statement with 23 countries during the recent Third Committee of the UNGA. That includes the countries mentioned by Mr Van Helvert, so there is no talk of a division, but of building coalitions, as I also outline.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u72	Actually, I think that's very good, so thank you for that. If I understand correctly, the direction of the Netherlands ultimately really goes towards making a coalition as broad as possible that condemns the situation in China and Xinjiang. The Minister cannot say that, because the Netherlands would only do so, but if you are all together, it will have effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u73	The statements and letters I just mentioned show that we do so all the time. These statements each time have their own terms, but they are always about the great concerns we have about the situation in Xinjiang and contain the call to China: improve it, allow observers. It is also absolutely our commitment that was Mrs Karabulut's and others' request to continue to work towards forming coalitions in the Human Rights Council to improve the situation for the Uighurs and to be able to ask for text and explanation and continue to press China to provide international observers with access. We have had a debate here on why the Netherlands wants to be a member of the Human Rights Council. This is a very clear example of why the Netherlands wants to be a member of the Human Rights Council. At the same time, the reality is also that Mr Van Helvert asked for China to be able to organise coalitions in this area, even with more countries. Mr Van Helvert asked what I am doing about this. With full energy, continue to work on forming coalitions, thus becoming a member of the Human Rights Council and convincing countries. This is often a debate among ourselves about how sharp the words can be and how sharp the measures can be. At the same time, you want to have as broad a coalition as possible and not produce a completely meaningless statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u74	I hear the Minister say that we as the Netherlands alone cannot do so much, that we have to work in a coalition context and that we are in the vanguard in this respect. But yes, the fact is that the Netherlands is China's third trading partner when it comes to trade with the EU. Does the Minister not agree with me that human rights should always prevail over trade?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u75	Again, it's about the effect. The Netherlands is a big economy and that gives us influence in the world. I have already outlined here that the reason why a Dutch minister has a lot of access in the world and can therefore raise human rights issues is that every partner knows that we are the country of the University of Wageningen, TU Delft and all the other handsome scientific institutions, and the country of DSM, Unilever, ASML and all those handsome water and agribusinesses. So countries know that the Netherlands, although we are the 66th in terms of population, has something to offer. And they also know that when Minister Blok, Prime Minister Rutte, Minister Kaag or any of my colleagues come in, they are also addressed to the human rights situation. If I were to follow Mrs Van Kooten's reasoning, which has the charm of simplicity, I would allow her to do so, then the Dutch minister will no longer be received there, because he will no longer come on behalf of those handsome companies and universities. It can therefore no longer bring any human rights message. There's no more importance. For the effect we want to achieve, it is counterproductive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u76	The charm of simplicity. I will simply try to explain it to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u77	Explain it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u78	Fine. We go to the supermarket, where cans of tomato puree for €0.12 lie in the shelves. Where did they come from? Well, not from Italy, they come from the Chinese province where the Uighurs on hot fields with blood, sweat and tears that produce cans, where there is forced labour and child labour. In the Netherlands these tomato puree cans are in the shelves. As China's trading partner, we certainly have something to say about how these cans are produced. It is insufferable that we have nothing to say about this. We are all going to Auschwitz so that we never forget the abuses and atrocities that have taken place there. And then the Minister says here: the charm of simplicity; I cannot go along with that. I think it's insufferable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u79	Thank you for your explanation. I'd like to take a few thoughts with you. I think it is very important that companies apply the OECD standards on corporate social responsibility and that they are transparent about it, so that consumers can know it. If what Mrs Van Kooten says is true in this case, it is tomato puree that would have been produced in Xinjiang, then people can also know it. Indeed, I believe that companies really need to make a very sharp assessment of whether they should participate in this. But then back to the charm of the simplicity of Mrs Van Kooten. She says those cans shouldn't be in the Dutch supermarket. I fear that the Dutch world market share of cans of tomato puree is not so big that it affects someone. If you want to take such a measure, I am not at all ready, then this is also typical of what you would like to do in an international context. A second very practical consideration is that it makes no sense within the European Union if one country takes a trade measure, because the borders are open. If the Netherlands were to say 'cans cannot enter the country from outside the European Union, because that is the only place where border control takes place', then they will be able to enter the country tomorrow via Antwerp. After all, that border is not controlled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u80	I don't really understand. When I see the minister in the Catshuis with an entire Chinese delegation celebrating the Dutch-Chinese trade missions, I wonder: does that eat well? Are you going to get a bite out of your throat while you're sitting there knowing there are human rights violations in China? I really don't understand any of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u81	We had, I think, a good debate on whether it would work to say as the Netherlands alone: a product like tomato puree is not allowed. Let me stick to that example, because I like practical examples. I've indicated why I don't think that's gonna work. Then I hope that we will have an exchange of views afterwards. Yeah, and then try to climb the moral high ground of "eat it nice?" This isn't gonna get us anywhere. We want to achieve effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u82	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u83	Mr Kuzu specifically asked if the Netherlands would be willing to support Uighurs through the Human Rights Fund. I am, of course, proud of the fact that the Human Rights Fund exists, but unfortunately, in the interests of people, I am better but not able to say how we use it in many cases. So I fear that that must be the answer here. Mr Van Helvert asked whether we would like to equip local authorities visiting China, in the framework of trade delegations or otherwise, to do so by also providing them with information on the human rights situation in Xinjiang and wider in China. In the China strategy, we have indicated that we are going to invest, financially and through human commitment, in sharing knowledge with fellow governments, universities and business about what we want to see better in China and at the same time about where we see opportunities and opportunities for cooperation. In that context, therefore, I think it is logical to also give substance to Mr Van Helvert's wish. It is right that also co-governments, who are ultimately ambassadors of the Netherlands, have all the information to raise these issues. Mrs Karabulut and Mr Sjoerdsma asked about the possibility of setting up an independent committee of inquiry into Xinjiang, preferably from the UN. We fully agree on that. We have made the call for this ourselves. I did it myself in conversations with the Chinese colleague. Here again we have operated in a coalition context by appealing to the President of the UN Human Rights Council, Mrs Bachelet, with 23 other countries. In that we advocate that she not only gets access to Xinjiang, but also in such a way that everyone can really be talked to there. Because that's two different things. I thought Mr Sjoerdsma also asked to see the ambassador's invitation. Essentially, of course, you can go there but also really can look and talk anywhere. The logical way forward is for Mrs Bachelet or a representative to have access to her. Then Mrs Ploumen asked if I see any possibilities for the UN Security Council to raise this issue. As Mrs Ploumen is of course aware, the composition of the Human Rights Council, with China as a permanent member, will mean that no resolution in this area will pass the Human Rights Council. What the Netherlands does do is, through the routes of the Human Rights Council, also a UN body, and the General Assembly keeps setting this up again and again in those broad coalitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u84	Thank you to the Minister for his reply but also for the efforts. I think we all agree with him that anything that comes in front of us will at least come up against a veto from China. Sometimes the process is the message. Knowing that the finish line will not be reached, I would therefore like to ask him again whether he sees added value in starting a process which would force the Security Council to relate to it in a process which could lead to a resolution in another situation. I hope the Minister understands what I want to say; I have explained it more clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u85	In the end, of course, both of us want it to be on the agenda of the UN Security Council. Here again, the question is whether there is a real prospect that this will be on the agenda if the Netherlands asks a number of countries that are currently members. The point isn't that I or our fine PV in New York couldn't ask that. The point is that my real assessment is that this will also lead to this reaction in countries that are already members: that leads to nothing now; let us jointly focus on the Human Rights Council and the UN General Assembly, where we do not run into a veto and have a broad, but far from sufficiently large coalition, but we can settle this. Then Mr Kuzu, Mrs Karabulut and Mr Van Ojik asked about the sanctions legislation adopted in the US House of Representatives and what that would mean for the Netherlands. The sanction laws have not yet been passed by the Senate. In that sense, therefore, it is work in progress. As the Chamber knows, the Netherlands is one of the initiators of the European Union's now existing cyber-sanction regime and of the human rights sanctions regime that is not yet in place but in preparation. For both regimes, we do not specify in advance in which cases it will be deployed. That would be wrong, because you have to act on the basis of legal hard information if you place people or institutions on the list. In addition, at least as long as negotiations are under way, you must give room to all the other countries that ultimately have to sign up to their ideas on the use of the human rights sanctions regime. Therefore, the Netherlands is certainly not opposed to the use of sanctions in human rights violations or any other regime that is distinctly different from cyber-infringements, but then there must be an instrument and then there must be such hard legal cases that you can bring them under that sanction regime. At the moment, there is no possibility of taking such a step, but we are not doing for nothing a regime that already exists, for cybersanctions, but to which no names have yet been added, and with a human rights sanctions regime that does not yet exist, but is in the process of being.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u86	This is actually a debate that takes place more often in this Chamber: the Minister wants to, but says that there are no possibilities now. My question to the Minister would be as follows. We can see that these opportunities exist in the case of Russia. There are also a number of other examples. I asked very specifically for commitment to allow sanctions against, for example, those responsible for the re-education camps. Am I to understand that the Minister is working on this? When could we be informed about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u87	The Chamber knows that I am working on a human rights sanctions regime. The Chamber also knows that this has been a process for years. I have to tell the Chamber that in the past the Chamber was a little more optimistic about this than we were, but at least in Europe the agreement has been made that this will be completed. That is still a very long road, because not all European countries are enthusiastic about it. First of all, I want to ensure that this regime is effectively transposed into a European directive regulation and then I want to see where it can be applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u88	I believe that these violations are so serious that the Minister should also make efforts to impose sanctions against China independently of that path. We also have this: for example, there are targeted sanctions against Russia and targeted sanctions against Iran. Of course, it's very serious. I think it is very good that a broad sanction regime is being worked on, but I would like the Minister now to make an effort to put in place targeted sanctions against those responsible for these degrading situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u89	That would really drive the other project. Once again, there has been a long way, but fortunately we have European agreement on the development of a human rights sanctions regime. Everyone knows that this is a Dutch initiative. If a Dutch minister were to go through that now, while it is still running, to launch a new initiative that is very overlapping, it would be detrimental to both. Then, of course, the question will be: what does the Netherlands really want?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u90	Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u91	One more time, Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u92	The Minister is now setting out a false contradiction, because that would mean that we would no longer be able to impose targeted sanctions on Iran. This would mean that we would no longer be able to impose targeted sanctions on Russia. Do I simply understand that the Minister wants to wait until the sanction regime is there instead of working on and working on the sanction regime and focusing on sanctions towards responsible Chinese?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u93	The comparison with Russia and Iran is limp. The news that there is a willingness in Europe to work on a human rights sanctions regime is very recent. Those other sanctions are from before that time. Now that we have achieved that fortunately, it was not easy; before I was rather pessimistic about it, it makes sense to focus our entire energy on it. It is really harmful if we come up with new initiatives for similar measures. They will trigger another huge debate and then become really damaging to that other goal, where we have been able to take a step forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u94	I'm just trying to figure out where we're gonna look. I know what the Minister's saying. I also commend the commitment of our cabinet to this human rights sanctions regime, as I have said before. That's really very important. I'm very happy about that, too. It is also a good thing that the full commitment remains on this until it is there. In addition, it is an initiative of a very different order to look at personal sanctions aimed at what is happening now. For example, Europe has already been able to impose sanctions against the generals of Myanmar. I wonder if both are on the same level. "We want to create a new regime, propose a new way of people, so that it goes better under that new sanction regime" stands next to "in that one country what is happening now, we have to do something about it and can we do that?" I still don't quite understand why that couldn't go side by side.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u95	Mr. Chairman. The Chamber knows, because the Chamber itself has many contacts in Europe, that there are a lot of countries that are not enthusiastic about sanctions at all, and find it very uncomfortable that the Netherlands in particular is always bringing this up. Nevertheless, we have been successful. It is never easy; the Chamber also knows the discussion about the continuation of sanctions against Russia. Now we have been able to take an important step forward on the human rights sanctions that, if they succeed, are a very broad instrument, and if they had existed in the past, could probably have been applied to countries you now call Iran or Myanmar. Only, it didn't exist yet. It still does not exist; we are one step further. We need to focus our full energy on a well-functioning European human rights sanctions regime, and I think we agree on that. If you, as the Netherlands, would do this, on the other hand, you would open up another discussion and thus the sensitivities about the 16+1 initiative of those European countries that are working more closely with China. That's my belief; "there you have them again," will be the reaction. The 5G debate in Europe is therefore immediately reopened. So you're pulling a whole bunch of uncomfortable discussions in Europe over you, when you just agreed that we should have a human rights sanctions regime with each other. So that will really be detrimental to that important goal that we agree on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u96	So I understand that, if I ask the Minister what is the quickest way to achieve personal sanctions against human rights violations in China, he says that we should continue our initiative in Europe for the sanctions regime as soon as possible, because that is the fastest way forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u97	Sure. You must have a broad human rights sanctions regime that you can deploy wherever you need it, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u98	Mr. Chairman. That may be so, but at the same time we are looking, as a Chamber, and I also think the Cabinet, for ways of putting pressure on China to change something in the province of Xinjiang. We know that, unfortunately, what we are doing so far is not enough. Now I'm gonna take a look at the United States. They have a list of Chinese companies. They say: these companies are directly involved in the repression of Uighurs, and if you want to deliver as an American company to that Chinese company, you have to apply for a permit. Well, they don't get those companies, so they come to the Netherlands and buy those products from Dutch companies. Should we not try to close this gap, which is actually avoiding pressure on China, in a European context? Would that not be a road that the Minister in Europe and the European Union should and would like to explore?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u99	Yes, but with all due respect, this is the same question by way of detour. Because why did the United States, at least the House of Representatives, adopt such a sanction law? In view of human rights violations, but possibly also against the background of the US's broader strong attitude towards China, but certainly also with regard to Xinjiang and human rights violations. So Mr Van Ojik's question is whether the Netherlands can take the initiative for a new European instrument to denounce human rights violations in Xinjiang. I would like to return to the reasoning I used just now with Mr Van Helvert and Mrs Karabulut: fortunately, we are a long way off with a human rights sanctions regime that can be deployed worldwide. That's hard, and it's not finished. The accumulation of new initiatives that will be very difficult in Europe is really damaging to that main route. And I think we agree that that main route is a dot at the end of the horizon. I think it would be very unwise for me to want to add new elements in a form of, in itself understandable, impatience.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u100	Apart from the impatience, I can imagine... Mrs Karabulut is not here right now, but she said I believe that we often have the discussion about what is feasible or not feasible and what is realistic. That's always searching. That's always a search. I can imagine that there is indeed a number of EU Member States that want to see, together with the Netherlands, whether the gap can be closed from the, as I call it, evasion of pressure on Chinese companies responsible for the repression of the Uighurs. Whether that should be exactly with such a list as they have in the US... Maybe there are ways to do that. I just mentioned the current example of KPN. Perhaps the Minister will comment on that later. We have to respond to this in one way or another.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u101	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u102	The Minister says that this is unrealistic and perhaps even counterproductive. But maybe he can get along with a few countries... he's very close to the French Foreign Minister, we could still read this morning. They might want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u103	Mr Van Ojik is absolutely right that it is always a question of searching and checking. That is what I am doing with you and with other countries. But that results from my own assessment which I give here as realistically as possible. You can follow a very large part of that. The debate on the human rights sanctions regime has lasted for years. Again, I say honestly: at first I was skeptical. I thought it wasn't gonna work. That was also Dutch for a very long time... But it worked. The Chamber was right about that. Still, it's not there yet. And the road to it has been very difficult. You know that too, because you have also heard a bit behind the scenes why it was difficult and in whom it was difficult. And we're not there yet. That's a fact. It is appropriate for the Dutch Chamber to say, while we are not yet there,: well, we have another idea. But then I really tell you from the bottom of my heart, although I do have a good relationship with all European ministers, that this is going to be counterproductive. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u104	Mr. Van Ojik, you're repeating yourself. All the interruptions were on the same subject, at the same point. Do you have anything new to add?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u105	Absolutely. Fire new. After all, it is interesting that the Minister says that he was not convinced at the outset that the human rights sanctions regime would work either. And who sketches our happiness? Looks like it's gonna work. We're not here yet, but it looks like it's gonna work. Maybe that could also apply to a number of other suggestions made by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u106	That was an encouragement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u107	There is the classic Russian proverb about the skin and the bear. I should have used another example, because Mr Van Ojik is very much against shooting bears. But I can't help it either that this proverb exists. It's also the reality. The decision to develop the human rights sanctions regime will soon require unanimity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u108	I have reason to believe that you will also be asking a question on the same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u109	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u110	Can you put it briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u111	I'm gonna try. I think that's exactly where the flaw is. It is good that the road to it has been explored and that there seems to be support now, but it must be unanimous. That broad mechanism is going to take a very long time. There is currently a mechanism of an EU sanctions list that we can place targeted people on. I do not really understand why we do not use the current mechanism to impose sanctions. What's the difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u112	There is no mechanism of an EU sanctioning list where this can be achieved. You're gonna have to set up a new one for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u113	Three months ago, we had a debate here on Myanmar. At that time, the Minister and I had a similar debate on placing people on the EU sanctions list. At that time, the Minister said exactly the opposite: we should not broaden the sanctions, but go for personal sanctions. We now also know that the broad mechanism may take a while, that it may take years to reach it. But there is a mechanism whereby we can put people on an EU sanction list. Why don't we use that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u114	There is a mechanism for Iran, there is a mechanism for Russia. There is no mechanism worldwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u115	Why not China?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u116	Because you need 28 countries to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u117	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u118	Then Mr Van Ojik asked whether measures could be taken against Dutch companies doing business with partners guilty of human rights violations in Xinjiang. Dutch companies must, of course, comply with Dutch and international law. If they do not, they can be prosecuted in the Netherlands, including for violations outside the Netherlands. If there is no such legislation, then we expect Dutch companies to comply at least with the OECD Responsible Business Guidelines. And if they call on government instruments, then we can hold them hard. The same applies to doing business with companies, active in Xinjiang or in China. Either there is a national or international legal instrument that allows us to take action; fortunately, we are a rule of law. If that is not the case, we are appealing to the decency of the OECD directives, coupled with the lack of access to Dutch instruments. But you can't just take measures out there if there's no legal basis for that. Mr Van Ojik also asked to address the procurement policy of the Dutch government. We have an extensive state purchasing system. That belongs to BZK's colleague. Under that state purchasing system, the international social conditions have also been explicitly declared applicable. So they're also well-known. These are also general conditions for all companies that want to do business with the Dutch government. Then Mr Van Ojik asked about the message this morning about KPN and Tencent. That is indeed a message that calls for a very clear explanation from KPN. It's very fresh. So I really want to have the opportunity to hear from KPN what's going on and possibly see how that relates to Dutch data protection legislation. So at the moment I cannot go into any other substance than that the message raises so many questions that it has to be provided with a very clear answer, but first of all by KPN. Mr. Chairman. With this I hope to have answered the questions in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u119	May I perhaps ask the Minister, in the light of his reply, to send a letter to the Chamber on this KPN issue, as I call it? I signed up for the arrangement to request a debate, but if the Minister now says 'I'm going to find out and then I'll send a letter to the Chamber', then perhaps I can wait for that debate until that letter arrives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u120	I am happy to do so, at least with my colleague from Economic Affairs and possibly with another one, if there are indeed questions about data protection legislation. But I think it's a logical question. Then the cabinet comes with a letter. Please allow us some time to have the conversation with KPN about this first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u121	Very good. So there's gonna be a letter about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u122	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u123	So you're not gonna report to the scheme as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u124	I might be able to unsubscribe from the scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u125	Yeah, right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u126	I see very enthusiastic faces on your left-hand side, so I'd be happy to. I would also like to ask a substantive question, if you will allow me, about this state purchasing policy. For I know, for example, that there are a lot of municipalities buying from companies we know about, but there are more examples of them being involved in the repression of Uighurs in the province of Xinjiang. Those criteria, which the government has set and which the Minister has just spoken about, do not seem to exclude. So there's an interpretation issue behind that. I would like to ask the Minister whether he actually thinks that there should not be bought-in from such companies by the Dutch government, local authorities or the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u127	This is a question that I really want to discuss with the Home Secretary because it concerns both the state purchasing policy and the procurement policy of fellow governments. I should like to propose to Mr Van Ojik the following. You will receive a letter on the previous subject, for which I need a moment. I propose that I answer this second question in that letter, after consultation with my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u128	That makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u129	Following the letter, the following. I'm really glad that letter's coming. I would therefore like to see the answer to the question of how long this cooperation with Tencent has been in place. This is a former state-owned company and in 2017, the Dutch State still had 8% shares in KPN, if I am not mistaken. So I would also like to know how long this cooperation has been going back and what our responsibility is in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u130	Yeah, the duration of the collaboration we need to ask KPN. A small minority share does not affect day-to-day business, but we can also explain this in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u131	Thank you. Then we'll continue with the second term of office. I call Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u132	Mr. Chairman. Three motions from my side. The government has expressed its deep concern but does not condemn it, but we can do so as a Chamber. That is why I have a "spoken" motion on that subject. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Speaks from the large-scale internment and repression of the Uighurs by condemning the Chinese government;]] [[calls on the Government to convey this conviction to the Chinese authorities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government expresses serious concern about the human rights situation in Xinjiang;]] [[Calls on the Government to call on the Chinese government, both bilaterally and internationally, to close the Uighur re-education camps and stop the repression of the Uighurs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government expresses serious concern about the human rights situation in Xinjiang;]] [[calls on the Government, as long as China does not provide the international community with access to Xingjiang through an independent investigation and observation mission, to promote, at EU level, personalised sanctions against individuals responsible for or known to have contributed to human rights violations against the Uighurs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32735-275]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32735-276]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Karabulut, Mr Ploumen and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32735-277]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u133	Mr. Chairman. Human rights, and especially in this case, the human rights of Uyghurs in China that are being violated, must be defended, at all times and everywhere. This also means that when companies or trade facilitates that, you must also dare to take action against it. I always notice that there are countries where we take targeted sanctions against them, and that there are countries that always get away with human rights violations and against which no targeted sanctions are possible. This is often about the lack of political will. I regret that in this case the Minister wants to wait for a new regime to be established against those responsible for the re-education camps. That is where the political will is lacking. I also believe that, in addition to what he does, the Minister should be more active towards companies that may be involved in human rights violations in China which should not be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u134	That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are insufficient safeguards to prevent Western surveillance technology, including Dutch, from contributing to the high-tech suppression in China, for example of minorities in Xinjiang;]] [[calls on the Minister to identify and address the Dutch companies involved in human rights violations in China through export of surveillance technology,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Ploumen and Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32735-278]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u136	Thank you. I call Mr Koopmans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for answering the questions. It is good to hear that the cabinet is actively committed to combating the horrible situations we have been talking about. I think it is important that we, as a Chamber too, should express as much as possible our support for this attitude and that we should call for a European approach. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that improving the situation of the Uighurs in China requires a European approach;]] [[Notes that pressure is also being put on Uighurs and others with Chinese ties from China in the Netherlands and in other European countries;]] [[calls on the Government to address the situation regarding the Uighurs in China to the Foreign Affairs Council, to adopt a common European position in the UN Human Rights Council as far as possible, and to share information within the EU and to form a common front on intimidation from China towards EU residents,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Koopmans, Mr Van Helvert, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Krol, Mr Ploumen, Mr Kuzu, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32735-279]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u138	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u139	Thank you. Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u140	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the commitment to address the terrible abuses against the Uighurs, internationally in the UN, but also in the EU. That is why my group has also co-signed a number of motions. My group will, of course, also support Mr Kuzu's motion to pronounce us as a parliament against the abuses in China against the Uighurs and strongly condemn them. Mr. Chairman. I have one more question for the Minister: is he prepared to do so, perhaps a colleague of his should do so, in order to carefully monitor whether the situation of the Uighurs in the Netherlands is not getting worse in terms of threats from China and China? Is he also willing to monitor whether they still experience that they can report it freely and possibly report it? He has spoken about this before, but I can imagine that it is good to continue to monitor the situation carefully, to ensure their safety here in the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u141	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I call Mr Van Ojik van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u142	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I'm glad he's sending a letter about KPN. I thought I saw that he too was quite concerned about what was in the newspaper, so it is always good to know what we could possibly do about it. So I'm looking forward to that letter. I also welcome his commitment to speak again with his colleagues about the state purchasing policy and to what extent it extends to companies involved in the repression of the Uighurs. I have hesitated for a moment whether I would now table a motion on this subject, but I will do so anyway, because I can imagine that the Minister, when he talks about it, would like to have received some direction from the Chamber. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the public authorities want to set an example through socially responsible purchasing by paying attention not only to the price but also to environmental and social impacts in their purchases;]] [[Whereas, from that point of view, it is undesirable for the government to purchase goods or services from companies whose activities are demonstrably contributing to the repression of Uighurs in the Chinese province of Xinjiang;]] [[calls on the Government to apply the criteria for socially responsible procurement to government suppliers involved in the rigging and maintenance of the surveillance apparatus in Xinjiang and thus in the repression of the Uighurs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32735-280]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u143	Thank you, Madam President. The violation of human rights in China seems to know no borders. On the one hand, it is about the intensity with which people are followed and with which the rights are delineated, reduced and cut off. On the other hand, it is about the enormous size. China is a very large country and many people are trapped in such a camp at the same time. Then on the one hand the size is very impressive and on the other hand it is also good to keep in mind that of those 1 million or 2 million Uighurs or no matter how many are in a penal camp, each person is simply held individually. And then everyone has a father, a mother, a brother and a sister. So that 1 million is very impressive, but so is every individual in it. That's why it's a good thing we talked about it today. I understand the Minister's consideration. He says: sometimes you might want to say things, but is the result better if you first try to find support. I hate that sometimes, because you want to judge and scream and do it. But the minister says, "Give me the room to create support." I think that's very important. When it comes to knowledge, I am very pleased that the Minister says: I want to inform the local authorities. When it comes to getting information through international channels and research in that area, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that research shows that the Chinese authorities are not only detaining Uighur and other minorities in Xinjiang and having forced labour carried out in internment camps, but also having forced labour carried out in factories outside the camps;]] [[Considering that the Uyghur Human Rights Policy Act in the US Congress talks about concrete measures to counter this, such as identifying factories where forced labour takes place;]] [[calls on the government to promote international research into forced labour within and outside internment camps by Uighur and other minorities in Xinjiang,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert, Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32735-281]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u144	Thank you, Mr President. I've co-signed a number of motions. I have one motion of my own. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that human rights always prevail over trade interests,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32735-282]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u145	I will reopen the meeting and give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u146	Mr. Chairman. I now have all the motions, but a few questions have also been asked in the second term. In the first motion by Mr Kuzu, on item No. 275, the government is asked to pass a conviction from the Chamber to the Chinese authorities. I have already indicated that such diplomatic actions should take place in a coalition context, if they take place, so I advise against that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u147	The first motion is dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u148	The second motion by Mr Kuzu, on item No. 276, calls on the government to call on the Chinese government internationally to close Uighurs' re-education camps and stop the repression of Uighurs. Because the Netherlands always stands up for fundamental human rights, this is support of policy, so Court of Justice judgment. The third motion by Mr Kuzu and Mr Van Ojik, Mrs Karabulut, Mrs Ploumen, and Mrs Van Kooten, to item No. 277, calls on the government to promote personalised sanctions at EU level. That is the debate that I have had extensively, and I have indicated that it is unwise for me, while we are focusing on a global human rights sanctions regime, to make a separate plea through it, so I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u149	The second motion gets judgment Chamber, the third motion gets dissuaded. Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u150	Mr. Chairman. The Minister can argue for personal sanctions, can't he? Within which regime he does so and in what way, that is up to the minister. With this he could give the motion judgment Chamber, unless the minister is against personal sanctions, but I cannot imagine that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u151	We have had a great deal of discussion. I have indicated that, fortunately, we have already come to an end with a global human rights sanctions regime and that people from every country could fall under it as soon as there is. But it was a very difficult road to achieve that. It is still a difficult way to reach unanimity on the actual introduction of that regime. Any plea to create at the same time a separate sanction regime, which would eventually overlap with that global sanction regime, would lead to negative reactions from other countries in the sense of: The Netherlands never has enough either. So, in line with the debate we have already had, I must advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u152	But let me get this straight: the Minister says that he is working on a global sanction regime through the EU. If there is, they'll look at this. My question is whether he can take up this issue in the light of his ideas on how this could then be achieved, within that still to be determined sanction regime. The Minister would therefore be in favour of targeted sanctions against those responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u153	This too is a repeat. That brings me to the skins and the bears. First of all, this EU human rights sanctions regime must be implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u154	Mr. Chairman. First, on the first motion. The Minister states that it is a "spoke emotion" and that a ruler normally abstains from a judgment. However, there is also a request to transfer the Court's judgment to the Chinese authorities. Does dissuading in this case mean he's not gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u155	Along a detour, Mr Kuzu is asking for a verdict. We have had this debate and I therefore advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u156	Mr Kuzu, it could also have said: considering that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u157	There have been enough motions in the past in which the Chamber ruled. With regard to the position of the government: understanding of what the Minister had to say during the debate, but this is an opinion of the Chamber. That is why the operative part says very clearly: speaks out. I would like to give that to colleagues as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u158	However, the motion goes further and asks for a role of the government along a detour. If Mr Kuzu had written another motion, he might have had another judgment, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u159	No, Mr. Chairman. I wrote the motion, which is why I want to explain to the Minister what I mean. If there is an opinion of the Chamber, the Minister must state: our Dutch Parliament thinks so, dear Chinese authorities. That is what we are asking the Minister to do. That's just handing over Parliament's judgment to the Chinese authorities. Does the Minister refuse to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u160	The motion was perfectly clear to me. Hence the judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u161	Exactly, Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u162	Very briefly, on the third motion by Mr Kuzu and a number of colleagues, including myself. The motion aims to establish a link between the admission of an independent UN Commission of Inquiry on Human Rights and personal sanctions. It is not a question of individual sanctions, it is a question of a link. If China allows the Committee of Inquiry, the question of imposing personal sanctions will cease. I would like to ask the Minister whether he has looked at it exactly this way and why it has led him to this judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u163	I looked at it very closely. The motion calls for personal sanctions to be applied at EU level. There's more, but this is the core. Then I come to the situation that I described from-to-after. Fortunately, we seem to have support for a broader sanction regime. The Netherlands is seen as a country that constantly insists on sanctions. It doesn't serve the higher purpose of trying to fly it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u164	Mrs Ploumen, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u165	Very briefly, yes. The essence of the motion as described by the Minister is not the core according to the proposers. For the proposers, the core is the link to allowing an independent committee. In this way, we respond to the Minister's considerations. The minister can judge what he wants, but on our side it was a concession to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u166	The Minister with a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u167	Here I have to deal with the text of the motion before me. You're asking me for a ruling on that. The motion contains the sentence that I have just referred to and which we have also discussed extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u168	Please continue. The motion in part No. 278
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u169	Then the motion to part No. 278 by Mrs Karabulut, Mr Van Ojik, Mrs Ploumen and Mr Kuzu. The motion asks the Minister to identify which Dutch companies may be involved in human rights violations in China through export of surveillance technology and to address these companies. I would like to discuss this with Minister Kaag. This discussion has been held with her before. This concerns the export conditions for Dutch companies. I ask the Chamber to hold the motion until I have had the opportunity to discuss it with Mr Kaag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u170	Are you prepared to do so, Mrs Karabulut?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u171	Of course, Mr. Chairman. Only, can the Minister also mention a term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u172	I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u173	I assume that this will be voted on next Tuesday. I'll try to do this for Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u174	At the request of Mrs Karabulut, I propose her motion (32735, No. 278) by the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice of the European Communities. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u175	It belongs to Mr Koopmans and almost the entire Chamber. The motion calls on the government to present the situation regarding the Uighurs in China to the Foreign Affairs Council, the UN Human Rights Council and to establish a common European position as far as possible. This motion is policy support. I'd like to leave her to the judgment of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u176	Motion No. 279 gets judgment, Room. Then motion No. 280.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u177	I just remembered that Mrs Ploumen asked about the position of Uighurs in the Netherlands. We try to consult from time to time with representatives of the Uighur community. In addition, you know my call to report if there is a threat. Unfortunately, we hear that too often. Threat is not allowed in the Netherlands. I shall now come to Mr Van Ojik's motion on item No. 280. It invites the government to apply the criteria for socially responsible procurement to government suppliers involved in the rigging and maintenance of surveillance devices in Xinjiang. I would also like to ask Mr Van Ojik to hold his motion until I have been able to send the letter in consultation with Mr Van Ojik. This affects exactly the procurement policy that it's about. So I also think I should be able to discuss it with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u178	Mr. Van Ojik, are you willing to do that? I assume the motion will be dissuaded otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u179	Well, before I say that, I hope Mr Van Ojik is prepared to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u180	Mr. Van Ojik?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u181	The Minister is now making it interesting for me not to hold the motion. No, I'd like to hold the motion. I hope that the discussion and the letter will not have to wait very long here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u182	That's my goal, too. However, I do not think this will be possible before Tuesday's vote, but in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u183	At the request of Mr Van Ojik, I propose his motion (32735, No. 280). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u184	We're going to the motion in part no. 281.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u185	This is from Mr Van Helvert, Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van Ojik, and the government is invited to advocate international research into forced labour within and outside internment camps by Uighur and other minorities in Xinjiang. I have indicated to the Chamber that the Netherlands, together with a number of other countries, is calling for access for the High Commissioner for Human Rights, and thus also for research. So this motion, too, is policy support, and I leave it to the House to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u186	Finally, we come to the motion in part No. 282.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u187	That's Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen's. The Chamber states that human rights always prevail over trade interests. This statement is formulated in such a general way that you must begin to interpret what is meant by it. I shall then inevitably interpret along the lines of the little debate I had with Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen on whether the Netherlands should be the only one to allow tomato puree, for example. Against the background of that debate, I would advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u188	You do not even have to dissuade her, because it is a motion in which something is said and in which nothing is actually requested from the cabinet. Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u189	I have another afterburner on the motion in part number. 277, Chairman. We have heard the debate that we have actually had all morning on sanctions. Does this actually mean that the Dutch Foreign Minister will never again argue for personal sanctions until there is more information on the broad mechanism?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u190	The Minister will return to this subject once more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u191	You need a legal basis for sanctions. Fortunately, the Netherlands is a rule of law. So if you want personal sanctions, you need a basis in a sanction mechanism. One of the important tasks I am facing is to establish such a sanction mechanism at European level. So Mr Kuzu is now going through a very short period in a debate he has requested. I think it's a bit of a shame he's choosing such a conclusion himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u192	I am sorry that we have not actually been able to take a step in this case. In fact, I asked a very specific question and I said what it actually comes down to. If the Minister states that we are going for a broad mechanism, I can expect that there will never again be a case for personal sanctions, or at least not until there is a broad mechanism.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u193	That's your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u194	And I'd say that's a bad thing. Let me put that first, Mr. Chairman. But this is not an answer to the question I asked, and you know it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u195	I give the floor to the Minister once more, and then we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u196	The fact that I am committed to such a wide mechanism means that I want to have the opportunity to use sanctions on a broad basis, where necessary worldwide, in person.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u197	No, Mrs Karabulut, I see that you also want to respond, but we are not going to discuss again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-3.u198	I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber. We are going to vote next Tuesday on the motions that have been tabled for this debate.
