ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on the Dutch Food and Veterinary Authority. I would like to welcome the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. We'll start with the first term on the side of the Chamber. There is six minutes of speaking time per group. We have had a very long debate on CETA yesterday and today, so I hope you will spare each other a little bit in the number of interruptions and also in the length of them, and keep it concise and pointy. The Minister has already promised me to be brief and concise in her reply. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. The original reason for this debate was the message that the NVWA's ICT project, which should be the digital backbone in monitoring and enforcement, had failed. Over 60 million euros had been spent on it. Then the project was stopped. But after that, several colleagues also asked for a debate because of a number of horrible incidents and, more precisely, in some cases abuses. The most recent report was that pigs were immersed in boiling water, while those pigs weren't dead yet. We saw horrible images on TV. Mr. Chairman. That is not the only thing that has happened in the past period. I have been a member of this Chamber since October 2017. I've been trying to figure out for myself what happened at that time. I refer to animal welfare issues. I refer to abuses in the slaughterhouses. I have just mentioned the example, but more have passed by in the past period. We've had a matter about meat. That was rejected and disappeared into the food chain. In October last year, I asked questions about the alarming reports that the engine power of ships in inshore fishing would be much higher than would be allowed under national regulations and EU regulations. We've seen footage of the program Zembla. It exposed workers to pesticides. We have received complaints, and that is still going on, about the far-reaching breeding of dogs and cats, so that their health and well-being are affected. Mr. Chairman. Monitoring and enforcement are not doing well. There are major public interests at stake: food safety and animal welfare are at stake, but it also plays an economic role. Compliance with the rules also affects the conditions of competition between companies. It is now too often and too often that companies that run the rules take unfair competitive advantage of that. The credibility of the rule of law is also at stake. The State's Attorney's Office recently published a report on this. That's what the investigation of the Security Research Council points out. It says: "In order for effective supervision to be effective, it is necessary for companies that do not comply with the rules to feel sufficient pressure to do so." This is not enough. Mr. Chairman. Then the Minister's approach. He's very busy with it. We can see that, too. That's what we can tell from the pieces. But the question is whether that is good enough for the Minister. The PvdA Group has doubts about this. Because shouldn't we look a little deeper? If we are making new rules, and we are working on them now in the area of nitrogen, should we not also see whether they can be enforced? It is already a very serious problem to monitor and enforce the manure coming from these animals. The Court of Auditors also published a report on this last year, but the NVWA will soon have to monitor what feed is being given to animals in the framework of nitrogen. This adds another task, while the service is already so heavily burdened. The question is also whether the sanctions are proportionate. Are there sufficient deterrent sanctions to gain from non-compliance? Are rules testable and enforceable? In the Animal Welfare Act we have introduced rules that are extremely difficult to test and implement for the NVWA, such as the rules for measuring noses of dogs to determine whether health problems arise. Are there no alternatives to supervision and enforcement? Think, for example, of self-regulation or asking market players to use their purchasing power to provoke good behavior. If Albert Heijn decided not to take meat from abattoirs where abuses occur, those abuses would soon be out of the world, in my opinion. It's tough matter. As has been said, the Minister is addressing a number of issues, but this approach does focus on the level of action and on the level of organisation. My question to the Minister is: should we not even look a little deeper at system level? It's tough matter, just like the nitrogen problem. The Labour Party has the idea of having a number of people with authority, expertise and independence look at it, not rather than the Minister's approach, but at the same time. For it is not intended that all the actions initiated by the Minister should be stopped, certainly not; they should go ahead with speed, but the whole system of supervision and enforcement should be looked at at a different level, in the opinion of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u3	I have been tabling motions for years to strengthen the NVWA's intervention policy, without the support of the PvdA. And now the PvdA wants to talk again. Does Mr Moorlag agree with me that those recidivists, who cook pigs alive and cut them alive, who kick and torture animals and vets join in! Should their laces be caught, thrown into a cell on water and bread, banned from work and banned from keeping animals for a lifetime?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr Graus says it in a slightly different way from what I said, but I also asked whether the sanctions are proportionate to the nature of the offences and the abuses that are taking place. As far as I am concerned, these sanctions are getting heavier. But I think that at the same time a number of other actions need to be initiated. For the abuses which Mr Graus is referring to stem, among other things, from the far too fast pace of the slaughter lines. This also brings me to the question to the Minister whether she is prepared to bring down the pace of the slaughter lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u5	With those slaughter lines alone, we're not here. The VVD is suddenly going to support the use of camera surveillance, which the Party for Animals, the SP and we have been asking for for a long time. But that doesn't bring anything unless there are people who can read it. There aren't enough NVWAs. Teams have to go, along with the animal police, to avoid intimidation and threats, to grab those sick idiots by the balls. Then you do something, then you really support us and then you really help the animals. But that talking and talking and talking again, that didn't help those animals! I've been here 13 years talking about the NVWA. It's starting to give me real diarrhea. I just want action to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u6	I fully agree with the feeling expressed by Mr Graus. But it is also the question whether thirteen years of hammering has had an effect on the same anvil. It is very good that we continue to mention all these abuses with name and name. It cuts me through the soul, too. I also want heavier sanctions, but I want the whole system under review. I suggest that a number of people take a good and thorough look at it. That does not mean that you cannot take at the same time the steps that Mr Graus is advocating. 'Cause that's what I'm getting from the heart, too. The images I've seen cut me through the soul, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u7	I can go a long way with what Mr Moorlag is proposing, but I believe that at the moment three independent investigations are being carried out in the NVWA. I'm a little afraid that we're getting tired of being "external committee" here in the Chamber at some point because we're stacking research on research. Can Mr Moorlag understand my sense of discomfort?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u8	I can understand that very well. What I am proposing does not mean that there will be another report. I refer to it as "boring note, part 28" and that "that boring note, part 28" will disappear in the lower desk drawer. That's not my purpose. What I do note is that the current investigations focus on the level of organisation and on the level of action. I think the whole system should be kept under review. I also think that, for example, we should involve the judiciary. The Public Prosecutor's Office simply has very commendable views on how to organise supervision and enforcement. So I really want there to be systematic change. I want there to be a trend break with the practice of the past few years. We are having yet another debate today, but it really has to be substantially different with the system of supervision and enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u9	I will await Mr Moorlag's proposal, but I am a little afraid that if you look at it with such a broad eye, it will be very difficult to reach a conclusion. But we'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u10	I don't think so. There is a similar problem, namely the problem of nitrogen and the loss of nature. That is a tough matter, and that has also been an issue in which we have, as it were, been dragging a cart through the mud for years. And there is now a Remkes committee, which is now really coming up with systematic proposals, which can bring about a change of course. Mr. Chairman. We are far from there with those proposals from the Remkes Committee, but they have put their finger on the spot very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u11	There is no lack of proposals. I have just counted how many motions have been tabled in the last two years on the file on abuses in slaughterhouses. That's 32. It is a question of adopting these proposals and implementing them. It is indeed the same story as with the nitrogen problem. We have a Remkes committee, but we still need a government to implement the measures. Does Mr Moorlag also see that this is not the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u12	That's my frustration, too. With all these motions we can pave a path from The Hague to my hometown. That might be a bit excessive, because I live in Blue City, all the way to the far northeast of Groningen. But we'll get a long way if we spread all those motions along the lengths. And we're not gonna get anywhere with that. I believe that there really needs to be a breakthrough here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u13	Mr Moorlag continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u14	Mr. Chairman. I have two specific questions. I have already made one following an interruption by Mr Graus. That was the question: is the Minister prepared to substantially reduce the pace of slaughter lines? It'll help you avoid a lot of wrongdoing for my taste. The Animal Protection Committee also points that out. My second point concerns last October's questions on the engine power of coastal fishing. I would like to add that point, because those questions have been answered in a very unsatisfactory way. Is the Minister prepared to step up the monitoring of that engine power? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u15	Thank you. Mr Graus has the floor on behalf of the Freedom Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today the V stands for Pigs, it is the Party for Pigs, because that's what I'm here for. I am also certainly standing here on behalf of my group chairman Geert Wilders, with whom I reported last week against all those involved, against the animal executioners of the horror slaughter house in IJsselstein. I'll tell you about that later. I am now really speaking on behalf of my group chairman and good friend Geert Wilders, who has fought with me, is trying to fight and will continue to fight until we drop dead. The sad thing is, there was camera surveillance in IJsselstein. The VVD, after asking that very often, is suddenly a supporter of that. At first, privacy was at stake while the animal executioners were spared by the VVD. There was camera surveillance, but there are no people to read it out. It is therefore very nice to come up with 'we also want camera surveillance' right before the elections, but people need to come. I have been making motions since 2006 to raise the number of people in the NVWA and also in the animal police. It just needs to go up. There must be people who can control it. Mrs. Lodders, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u17	There's been an interruption by Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u18	I will certainly come back to this in my own speech. I hear Mr Graus pleading for extra people. We have had a debate on this before, but what I would like to focus on in this interruption is the following. I got a good look at the footage. I've really looked back on them a couple of times. On that footage we see that there are indeed inspectors present. They're even watching. It was also mentioned just now in Mr Moorlag's speech. When we argue with each other for higher penalties, do we agree that those higher penalties should be imposed? If the inspectors are present, do we not agree that these inspectors should intervene?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u19	In fact, the animalarsts were whacking and kicking. So it's much worse. The lawyers of the animals, on which the animals must be able to rely in the last few minutes of their lives, are still involved in serious animal abuse. I also want these people to appear before the veterinary disciplinary board. They can never keep a mouse or a cat or a dog in private again. They should be banned from the profession. They can never be vets again. So it's even more shameful. But people are needed: for example, the animal welfare teams. That's the NVWA crime squad. Those are the best teams in the NVWA. They're targeting recidivists. They're targeting animal executioners. They're now being split up and divided into five teams. Everything's being pulled apart. Those are the people who exposed everything. They get caught, but the animal executioners go free. But there aren't any people to look at the camera footage. Nothing's happening. What about the judges in the Netherlands? There is an approved motion from me and my colleague Lilian Helder on prison sentences for animal executioners. But the judges don't do it, they don't give a shit! That's why we're saying we need chief prosecutors for animals. The case law needs to be more detailed about animals, because that also does not count for anything. Here in the Chamber, animals don't count either, when they got there before we all got together. They're no less to me. For me, an animal is no less than a human being. Amen. I'm telling you the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u20	Finally, because once again, I will certainly come back to it in my own speech. I am pleased that Mr Graus and I agree that the people who stand there and carry out the inspection should act. The measures mentioned by Mr Graus are to be taken. But the VVD believes that we really need to make sure that the people who are there actually intervene. We have now implemented sufficient measures here in the Chamber, such as higher penalties. And camera surveillance is present in almost all medium and large slaughterhouses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u21	The NVWA veterinarians have become too intertwined with the system. They're whacking and kicking. It can't be done at all. That's why I've been asking for years, without the support of the VVD: go make duo teams with the animal police. If there's one animal policeman or woman in there, no one's gonna get it in their head. They have criminal jurisdiction and police powers. They have pepper spray, a gun and a baton. And they're gonna intervene. They won't allow it. Then the intimidations in the slaughterhouses will be over. There are a lot of good NVWA veterinarians, but the less good ones we have unfortunately seen less good ones................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... For that, you need the animal welfare teams and you need control of... the animal police! No one supports it. Why not? Why isn't the animal police being called in anymore? Why? We got 'em. It's purely political unwillingness. It's party politics over the back of defenseless animals. I just think it's outrageous. And then the meat is all eaten up, that tortured flesh. Well, I couldn't get it down my throat anymore, I'm telling you that honestly. That's why I became a vegetarian.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u22	You responded to Mrs. Lodders. Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u23	In fact, I would like to ask Mr Graus the following questions in response to the last part very deeply and very calmly. I know Mr. Graus as an emotional person. That is allowed at times, but the way in which the NVWA people were just talked about, I really do not think it is possible. Those people cannot defend themselves here, so I would ask Mr Graus to think about it quietly before he puts these people in this debate in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u24	I told a colleague in your profession last week from this place: you are not listening! I said, "Leave the good one there." But if all I have to do here is compliment the good NVWA guys, I'm not gonna be able to do my job anymore. This is about dealing with the bastards. This debate has been requested by me to tackle assholes. We're not talking about the good people here. We're talking about the animal executioners, aren't we? That's what I'm here for! I'm not a mayor handing out ribbons. I'm also some kind of animal attorney and animal saver. I stand up for those animals that don't have a vote here, except a few parties. I have said very clearly a few times "the good ones aside." In fact, I still have the animal welfare teams of the NVWA, which are also vets called "elite teams." I've been sticking feathers in their asses for years at every debate. Those are people I love. They are also NVWA veterinarians, but they are from the animal welfare teams. With all due respect, those inspection teams are very often too intertwined with those butchers or butchers or whatever you want to call them. They are also intimidated and threatened. They're gonna join us. Those people are intertwined, and then you have to quit. You need to move that much faster. You shouldn't hire people from countries where they still have to invent the word "animal welfare." The NVWA also adopts veterinarians who do not have our values and standards at all. In their country, it's perfectly normal to kick a dog in the street, let alone a pig. They don't give a shit. But those are not our values and standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u25	I appreciate your involvement, but I need you...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u26	I'm really sorry about that. Look, if that gets picked up by some bum who's only half listening from the press, it gets the news again, while I've said several times "the good one aside." You have to listen, Mr. Geurts. You should have supported some of my motions too, because we wouldn't have to stand here, probably.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u27	Good. And now you're going to continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u28	Those animal welfare teams are getting undressed, and they're being distributed. It's not true what's in the Minister's letter. The two animal welfare teams must be maintained. I have tabled motions on this subject with Mrs Ouwehand. That must not be affected, because these are the only two teams that function properly. Why do they have to fall apart? I really don't get it. Why are you just gonna tear apart the heroes of the NVWA? They are also intimidated, because they are not allowed to talk to politics. The senior management people who say that don't realize that I've grown up since childhood with the AID, the General Inspection Service, and the NVWA. I don't know everyone, but I do know a lot of people there. I always have my sources, everywhere. So they can shut up certain people, which I find shameful, I say that to the senior managers, but they don't take me with them and neither do the veterinarians. I know everyone from oatmeal to shit, and I always come up with my information until I die, believe me. Those intimidations must also stop, I say to Madam Secretary. It is shameful that veterinarians should not talk to politics. This is just North Korea! I think that's horrible. I happen to have a motion for a resolution from 2016 on the strengthening of NVWA's intervention policy from 2006 onwards: VVD against, PvdA against, CDA against, SGP against. It's unbelievable! Now, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a I warned you about this years ago. Will you stop doing party politics every time? Just support good requests! We want a clean-up of the entire senior management, especially the board of directors of the NVWA. If the Minister does not do it, a committee of inquiry is about to be set up to advise it anyway. So, Minister, take credit for yourself and go clean up that mess of senior management! That's not right. We can't let people mess with us for 13 years. Then it's end of practice. This is also the case in business: can't it be done? Bam. End of exercise. Even in politics it has to be like this, I think, but certainly when it comes to state-owned companies. I would like to ask the government once again to maintain the current well-functioning animal welfare teams, which are working with the Justice Department against the failing livestock and meat inspection teams, and not to tear them apart. There's a dirty game being played. Those people are being taken apart, but they don't want to. They do so by division and rule. That's what's going on within the NVWA! I would ask for heavier penalties both for the company's legal entity and for its employees. There's an approved Graus motion on prison time. Abusing animals? Hop, in jail, water and bread, end of practice, professional ban, imprisonment and never again allow private animal to be kept. That can easily be checked. I would ask the Minister to ensure that all those involved in animal abuse in slaughterhouses are given a lifelong professional ban in addition to imprisonment. Let me put it quite clearly, because I have a motion to do so. I would also like, on behalf of the PVV Group, that recurrent slaughterhouses cannot, of course, repeat slaughterhouses, but people who have repeated animal welfare abuses can be closed with immediate effect. So I do not want that point system or fines first, but immediately "end of practice." Geert Wilders has also reported those animal executioners, so I would certainly ask on behalf of my group to close the Westfort slaughterhouse in IJsselstein immediately, preferably today, but tomorrow is also good. I'd like a response. I would also ask that veterinarians who do not maintain enough or even abuse animals be held accountable to the Disciplinary Board. I know that's all a paper tiger, too. The Minister can ensure that they are responsible for the veterinary disciplinary board, but I do not see that happening. In any case, I think our minister should fire those people. They're clearly visible on the footage, so they can't hide behind anything. I'd say goodbye, and never again one animal in your hands, ever again, end of practice. The letter also said that the animal welfare teams should start training people, but they don't have the time at all. They can't do that at all. What's the Minister gonna do about it? We also want to increase the quality and quantity of NVWA. Given the time available, I will refer to the five points of the Animal Protection Committee, including the request to reduce the speed of production in the slaughterhouses. A few months earlier, therefore, I supported a motion by Mrs Ouwehand. I would like a response to the five points of the Animal Protection Committee, including the issue of camera surveillance, the stop button and better education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u29	That brings you to the end of your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u30	I'll do the rest through interruptions. I have a few more questions, but I will ask them in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u31	Glad to hear that Mr Graus also speaks here on behalf of his group chairman, Mr Wilders. We can go a long way with the PVV's proposals here. We are making the same proposals. A slaughterhouse that doesn't behave? Just close. All the people within the NVWA who don't want to maintain? Get your ass out of here. More supervision that's really gonna work, lower tire speed. But that does include two important things and I miss them at the PVV. We've seen the footage of a model slaughter house. Still, that doesn't stick to the rules. So we can assume that this is happening elsewhere. First of all, if you think that the tyre speed should be reduced, you can slaughter much and much less animals in the Netherlands. That means you can't climb on a tractor on the Malieveld and start saying to the farmers: we're proud of all of you, we're not going to intervene in the livestock. So question one is: when is the PVV going to say that? Question two is most important to the animals. People need to be told that, even if the slaughterhouse complies neatly with all the rules, the slaughterhouse is still a dramatic place for animals and that animal-friendly meat does not exist. That's what I expect from a party like PVV. I know that Mr Graus himself is a vegetarian, but it is now really time for the PVV supporters to hear from her leaders that she should eat less meat for the sake of the animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u32	Look, that last one is something we're not talking about. Mrs. Ouwehand knows that. I'm really an ambassador and I've been able to persuade a lot of people around me to stop eating meat. I always say, "Look at the nasty transports, look at how animals are dealt with, it's not supposed to taste good anymore, is it? But as a politician, I cannot make an appeal, not even on behalf of my group. It is a question of people's right to self-determination. I'm not allowed to discuss that, Mrs. Ouwehand. You know that, too. However, we have recently tabled a motion for a ban on ritually tortured products. For example, you did not support it. I've had a lot of grief about that. I tabled that motion together with Mr Wilders, so it was a Graus/Wilders motion. She was about banning ritually tortured products, but you didn't support her. The second point. That's about getting on that trigger. You know that we need farmers, even for other things than meat. We are very much in favour of small family and family businesses. That was always the Party for Animals. We have just done so, and Mr Wilders has always supported the moratorium on mega-stables. We are in favour of phasing out the bio-industry. But we have always supported small family and family farms, including farmers and gardeners. It's never been any different. The press brought it as if Mr Wilders had suddenly started doing so, but that is not true. We have also tabled a motion for a better income model. That was the Graus motion adopted on a better income model for farmers and gardeners. So that's all coming from us. People have to be able to decide for themselves whether they eat meat. That's not what you and I are about, Mrs. Ouwehand. I can say something about this as Dion Graus, but I cannot do that if I speak on behalf of my group. I cannot impose on others, not even within my group, to become a vegetarian. So that's a little tricky.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u33	Mrs Ouwehand, concluding on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u34	That's not what I asked. I've never forced anyone with the knife to the throat to stop eating meat. But it's about telling people the whole story. As Mr Graus knows, we have tabled a legislative proposal on the unsedated slaughter. That's a good example...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u35	That's an intoxication in advance. And we just...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u36	Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u37	It's a good example, though. If, for example, on Twitter, it is about what happens to animals in slaughterhouses, then everyone hates it. Often I see those people in their profile are voting PVV, so I hope that Mr Graus will help me start talking to those people. Those people say to me: yes, but I can't hear you about halal slaughter. Then I'll explain that we have a bill, but then I'll ask someone like you: but what do you think happens to the pigs and what do you do for the animals? I miss that with the leader of the PVV. If you speak shamefully of what is happening in those slaughterhouses...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u38	I call Mr Graus. The interruptions are taking too long, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u39	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but it's really important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u40	I've had the pleasure of chairing this committee more often. You have had this discussion with each other before. So I would now like to give Mr Graus the opportunity...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u41	When's that gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u42	That's bullshit. I met Mr Wilders through a document that I made of him as a television producer. There I also found out that I asked for all of this.He used to take all his savings to drive a kitten, which was given by the local veterinarian, to Utrecht in his mother's Deux-Chevaux. So Geert has always been an animal friend, just like I always have been. I'd like to advise everyone to review the Acts. We have been filing motions of this kind for 13 years. We never turned on anything. Never. And Geert, like me, has always been for the small family and family businesses. But the press brought it as: now he suddenly steps on a trigger. No. We have asked for a better model of income for farmers. We have always worked for small farms. We have always been against mega-stables and the bio-industry. But we cannot forbid people from eating meat, Mrs Ouwehand. I just can't. And you know I can't do this from this position. Maybe if I get out of the room sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u43	Good. Really concluding on this point, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u44	I'm really sorry for the animals, because I'm not asking for that. I'm just asking when the PVV is going to tell its own supporters that animal-friendly meat doesn't exist. That's what animals need. It's your party's.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u45	That is why Geert and I have tabled a motion for a ban on ritually tortured products, but it was not supported by the Animal Party. That's unlikely. That is what we want. We do not want to pre-slaughter that stunning at the halal and slaughter the kosher. We just want it to stop. Also for the animals. They get clamped and twisted. It's just terrible what's happening there. So those animals weren't helped with a reversible stunning at all. We want an animal to be dead before it is torn open or cut. We have tabled motions for resolutions on this matter over and over again. You're not gonna cut into a living animal. Again, I am not guilty of that, Mrs Ouwehand. I've become a vegetarian very consciously, because I've spent a lot of time with vets in my working life. Every night I came home sick. I drove more than a hundred thousand miles a year on the highways when I was on the outdoor shift, and I always got nauseous from...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u46	Mr. Graus, you really need to get your answers shorter...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u47	Yeah, but on long questions, can't I give you a good answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u48	Your gross speaking time...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u49	If I'm asked a question of three minutes, can't you expect me to make a quick one in 10 seconds? Mrs. Ouwehand has the right to interrupt me. So is Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u50	I'm just reporting a fact. Your gross speaking time is now three times the speaking time of your first term. Every answer is almost a deadline. You have had the right to reply extensively. I thank you for your input and will now give the floor to Mr Geurts, on behalf of the Christian Democratic Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope animals are above party politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u52	I call Mr Geurts on behalf of the Christian Democrat Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u53	Mr. Chairman. I see I have to finish and I haven't even started yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u54	Yes, that button didn't affect Mr. Graus very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u55	No, but it's on my psyche. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start with the footage that was recently on display that was made in a butcher's shop. Let me be very clear: this kind of image does not leave me untouched. A pig that is still conscious and that ends up in the boiler: it should not be possible! It's clearly an example of bad behavior. Here people are deliberately negligent, is my impression, and that does not help to reduce the band speed. I believe that abattoirs should pay more attention to the behaviour of their employees. The NVWA is supposed to maintain on behavior that cannot be tolerated. I read in the media that the slaughterhouse took immediate action and asked an animal welfare organisation to give their staff a follow-up course. I think that is a good thing: recognising that something is not going well at all and taking action on that right away. The minister was busy with the abattoirs to arrive at camera surveillance. A majority of abattoirs are willing to participate voluntarily. A number of small and medium-sized slaughterhouses are not prepared to do so. Could the Minister state the reason for this? Mr. Chairman. I am convinced that many people at NVWA are doing their utmost, especially those on the workplace who are proverbial with their boots in the mud, like the inspectors. I find it special that then a political party or party. Member of parliament shall report to the employees of the NVWA. Is it not first of all a task of the NVWA to investigate what their employees have or have not seen? And how does the Minister look at MPs who report the NVWA and its employees? Can this work paralyzed in practice, I wondered in the preparation of this debate. Could the Minister reflect on that? In my view, the inspectors/supervisors are the hard core of which the organisation should be employed. We are now waiting for the broad rethink of the NVWA to come to the Chamber. A link between head office, implementation practice and finance is considered. The CDA hopes that this will take an explicit look at the wishes of inspectors/supervisors and how they can be better served. The NVWA is an implementation organisation and the inspectors are the essence of this. Does the rethink give sufficient guidance to redesign the policy department or possibly work with a smaller formation that benefits the inspection? I was wondering, and I'm going to put this question to the Minister. Please do not discuss the standardisation of processes and proposals on liaison officers in the paper on the broad rethink that is to come to the Chamber. If there were additional costs, the CDA would at least want to improve its functioning. I would like to hear from the Minister whether, if she sends that broad rethink to us, this is how it is going to take place. Mr. Chairman. Another subject. I would like to point out my enormous annoyance once again about the ICT programme developed last year at NVWA and which can largely go into the garbage can. Nearly 65 million in external hire for a program that only ran in a single inspection area of the 23. That is a waste of public resources that the CDA is very upset about. While there seems to be too little capacity for other anti-fraud measures. And if I look closely at the NVWA's progress report, it does not even mention the fight against fraud as a public interest. Why is the fight against fraud not a public interest? As I understand it, nothing is actually done with reports of fraud by the inspection services. And that, while fraud involving seed potatoes or improper use of a biological label carries a very high risk of adverse effects for these sectors at home and abroad. Plant testing services cannot act against non-certified plants, depending on the NVWA. Can we look at how the powers of the inspection services can be extended to deal with fraud? Is the Minister prepared to consider whether reports from the inspection services could be given more priority so that they can be monitored more quickly and appropriately? Which brings me to reports. The answer to the factual questions shall indicate how the follow-up of notifications is improved. This is centrally organized by the customer contact center; also reports from inspector, I saw. For me, it is unclear how quickly a distinction and weighting of notifications is made. In my opinion, urgent reports from inspectors, inspection services and people working in their specific sector should be continued as soon as possible. How is that taken care of? The 2Solve report also showed that there was too little direction in following reports of abuses. How is the Minister working to improve this? Mr. Chairman. Fraud with food is of all times. Last autumn, fraud involving organic food came to the media. However, it is very easy to cat food labels nowadays. In my opinion, the penalties for food fraud are relatively low and the chances of getting caught are small. What is the government's commitment in the field of food fraud and how does cooperation with foreign countries work in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u56	Thank you. I'm glad you stayed in time, too. Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Party for Animals is the next speaker from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u57	Thank you, Mr President. The banks have been told to be too big to fail. If anything goes wrong with the banks, we can't let them fail, because they're far too important for the rest of society. From the beef and veal sector, we have to note that this too big to control. More than 640 million animals are bred, used and killed in the Netherlands each year. There's no way you can monitor that in a normal way. So all those debates about NVWA, all those reports we have already seen, all those warnings we have already received, which have still not led to structural system changes and the slowness with which politics responds to this serious problem, are in stark contrast to the speed with which animals are being chased through the slaughterhouse every day, even today. Mr. Chairman. The Animal Party was therefore pleased to hear the minister at RTL News say that she wants to look more fundamentally at this problem. She said this after a volunteer had hired herself as an undercover employee in the best slaughterhouse in Europe, where pigs come from "Better Life" stables and where pigs come from organic stables are slaughtered. There was two weeks of filming and everyone is outraged at what was on those images. The animals were beaten there. You can't do that. It's against the law. But the indignation should go beyond just where the people who work there and the NVWA'ers have not complied with the law, because even if you do comply with the law, the slaughter process for a pig is terrible. They end up in a CO gassing cellar. This Chamber has already said that it really wants to get rid of that. Why aren't these images shown to the Dutch public? Why does it remain outraged about breaking the rules, when we know that this system by definition provokes violation of the rules? Why isn't it about what happens, even if it stays neatly within the law, daily in abattoirs? Mr. Chairman. The Animal Party, since the minister gave the opening, has made ten proposals, thank you for that, to take a fundamental look at the problem. I've already e-mailed them to everyone, including the minister. I brought them with me, too. It is a ten-point plan for transparency and the change needed in livestock farming. The pace of slaughter must be reduced. I am surprised that the Minister said on television that she was going to regulate it legally and now in the letter to the Chamber she says that she is going to discuss what business itself actually thinks is useful in doing so. We know that, don't we? At 650 pigs an hour, you know you can't see if the animals are doing well. They'll be delivered. Is food safety going to be all right? You should at least halve that. We don't need to see what's optimal there. This is irresponsible. In addition, we also look more fundamentally at the number of animals bred and used in the Netherlands and sent to the slaughterhouse. The system has gone so crazy in its efficiency that last summer during the heat we could see that you can't even stop the slaughter process, because then the animals in the stables will die of heat. The poultry sector didn't want to participate in the protocol that regulates that you don't put animals in a truck at 35°C anymore. Why not? If they can't carry on sending animals to the slaughter, then the next chicks on a farm have already crawled out of the egg and they have to go somewhere. Those stables must therefore be empty and those animals must and will go to the slaughterhouse, where, if something goes wrong in that slaughter process, the NVWA cannot really intervene, because the next load of animals is already in the trucks in front of the slaughterhouse. There's no spark of air for those animals, literally not, and no hope for normal surveillance and for a normal life. Of course, the broom has to go through the NVWA. We know about whistleblowers, and we have seen that confirmed in the 2Solve report that there are just people there who say: I've never maintained and I'm not going to. What are those people doing there? We gotta get those out! The management that actively says to these people: maintain but not, must go. You'll have fewer people left, that's right. So the number of animals that you slaughter, you have to align with the supervision that you can deliver. That is the proposal of the Party for Animals. And, of course, there must be severe punishment. A slaughterhouse that is going to intimidate an NVWA operator who is trying to intervene must never slaughter animals again. That's it. Done. Now it's really irresponsible not to intervene. There are 2.5 million animals slaughtered every working day, so we know that supervision is not good and that slaughterhouses do not comply with the law. Who pays the bill for that? The animals, 2.5 million a day. We could say, "We're quitting." Stop the slaughter if you do not have enforcement and start a parliamentary inquiry into how it could have gotten out of hand with NVWA. The law needs to be strengthened, because the legislator allows far too much. And maybe we should take the NVWA away from the Ministry of LNV and leave it under a ministry that has no interest in meat production in the Netherlands. Finally, Mr President. I started with it: transparency. The way people are informed about what happens to the animals before they end up in the supermarket as a hammack is really below the mark. I believe that the Minister should work on transparent and fair information on what lies behind meat, dairy and eggs. Because screens with a label, screens with a better life really put people on the wrong foot and the animals deserve much better than that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u58	Thank you for your input. Mrs Bromet has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u59	Mr. Chairman. I was standing here a year and a half ago before my maiden speech, the first time I was going to have the debate in this plenary. That was also on this subject: abuses in slaughterhouses. I said at the time: I hope this will be the last time I have to have this debate here, but I knew of course that it would not be the last time. And yes, here we are again. I have just looked at the number of motions tabled by the Chamber over the last two years to improve the misery of slaughterhouses. That's a big pile. There are all kinds of concrete suggestions on how to improve the situation in slaughterhouses. Most of the motions haven't been passed. Some of them are. One has been adopted, and I think Mr Graus has said that he has been speaking in this Chamber for thirteen years on this subject and that this motion has already emerged several times. She's about mandatory camera surveillance. On 5 September 2018, there was a majority in the Chamber that wanted to make camera surveillance mandatory in slaughterhouses. But the Minister has been working for a year and a half to get abattoirs to introduce that voluntary camera surveillance. 13 abattoirs are still refusing to set up that monitoring. That was also the subject of Question Time. Then the replacement of this minister said: yes, that is because it takes even more time to start such a very legal process. I must say that I find the solution which the Minister now refers to in the letter very creative. She actually says that abattoirs that do not comply with the obligation of camera surveillance in the short term are under permanent supervision, and that this must be paid for by the slaughterhouse itself. I think this is a good solution without the need for legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u60	I agree with what Mrs Bromet is saying. In that horror slaughter house in IJsselstein, where all these pigs were tortured, camera surveillance was present. Mrs Ouwehand also pointed out that even the Better Life hallmark played, and you name it all. But if you don't have the people to check there and to read out those camera footage, then camera surveillance is no good. That's the problem. Our laws and regulations are already in place, but we do not have people who can enforce them, or they cannot enforce them adequately. That's where the problem is. So would Mrs Bromet please support me in getting more people into the NVWA and into the animal police?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u61	I'm going to ask the minister what her dream NVWA looks like, so if money isn't an issue. What does a NVWA without restrictions look like to her? Camera surveillance isn't the answer to everything. I was just pointing out the whole pile of motions. It's about the interplay of all the measures you have to take. But in the end, there is only one way to eradicate these abuses completely: stop the slaughter. I agree with Mrs Ouwehand. I am really convinced of that, and I will say something about it in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u62	Mrs Bromet continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u63	The letter the minister sent us says she's looking for the vulnerabilities in the system. That seems to be the rigging up of a consultation circus. I am thinking here of the list of motions that have been tabled here in the Chamber. Read the Animal Protection Recommendation. Read the Ten Point Plan of the Party for Animals. It doesn't have to be made up; it's already there and it just needs to be executed. A good example of this is the speed of the band. We also had a motion-Ouwehand for that in 2018. It has not been accepted, but, compliments, the Minister has nevertheless started working on it. These are cautious steps that the minister is taking as far as the speed of the band is concerned, but I would say: take it easy, because it's just going too fast. 650 pigs an hour is too much. In my first debate I also referred here to the one cow that was walking down the street with me, on the way to the butcher where she was slaughtered. I'd know, there's my steak. That's out of the question. The question to the Minister is therefore: is the scale on which we organise the slaughterhouses, not actually a recipe for misery? Is it true that there are more abuses in large slaughterhouses than in smaller slaughterhouses? I am genuinely curious about this and I would like to hear a reply from the Minister. I also think it is very good that an investigation is now being carried out into the capacity of the NVWA. That's also an answer to Mr. Graus' question. I'm also very curious how that works out. Like the PvdA I am also curious how the new challenges are taken into account. Because if farmers are to be obliged to give other feed to their animals in the context of the nitrogen crisis, then that must be checked. Is the NVWA prepared for that? Do you need extra capacity? Is it even a measure that you can maintain? And if you don't, do you have to use it? And what would the NVWA look like, according to the Minister, without having to pay attention to money and practical objections? What's a NVWA gonna do? And how far are we from that now? As far as I am concerned, the Minister can answer these questions in some detail. Finally, Mr President. In my maiden speech was a personal note, and now I want to put it back on. I told during my maiden speech that I eat meat, that I was a butcher's girl and that I had no objection to eating meat. But I gotta tell you, I'm getting more and more on my way to being a vegetarian. I'm eating less and less meat and my daughter has become a vegetarian. And that really has to do with what's going on in the slaughterhouses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u64	Thank you for your input. Mr Van Otterloo has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u65	Mr. Chairman. This debate also looks a bit like a collection of Question Times together of a whole year of wrongdoing. That looks sad, I must say. Although it does not make it any more cheerful, I would also like to go a little bit wider than all the abuses that are being raised by us periodically almost weekly, I would say if I looked at the issues raised for Question Time. I am also from the time when there was a discussion about whether there should be an NVWA, whether there should be one inspection for cattle and meat, and whether things that were at VWS and those that were at Agriculture, Nature and Fisheries, as it was then called, should come together. The decision was made in 2007, the organization came in 2012, and that is actually another result of the idea "big is beautiful" while big is mainly the b of bureaucracy. That doesn't cheer me up. The answers to the questions show that there are 24 ICT systems for 23 inspection fields and that such a whole organisation will not yet be able to handle these matters properly. Of course, the merger of the NVWA was again in charge of the idea that the money would yield. That is not unusual in this house and that always causes the problems to be expected. 50 million less could be spent. However, there are few things where you get more quality when you spend less money on it. That may only be possible if you are too fat and want to lose weight, but otherwise, if you want quality, you have to invest in it as well. This means, therefore, that we must look explicitly at what we want to do with this device and how we want to do it right. That's a little out of all the wrongs. I also have great concerns about the natural course of the staff, and I say this on behalf of 50PLUS. I noticed that more than 40% of the workforce was in category 55 plus. That is an extremely high representation in the whole. That's what the NVWA's problems are all about. They must ensure that they can attract high-quality people who are also able to look at slaughterhouses and the way animals have been handled, as society is now looking at them. I know the inspection of cattle and meat from the time when they were not quite at the slaughterhouses on the lap, but had close links. I have to say, it's gonna be kind of hard not to punch off when you're doing all day in a place like this. I read in the answers that we can talk about structural matters in March or a little later. Then come the answers to the questions about the changes in the organisation. I see Mrs. Ouwehand standing by the interrupting microphone. Perhaps I can prevent an interruption if I say to her now: I have been a flexible person for 50 years, so you don't have to ask; it was me before the word existed. I will conclude with another point of view, which has not yet been discussed. We need a strong Food and Service Authority to ensure that we can trust that not only the labels are good, but also the quality of the products. We know that anything that puts the health of healthy people at a little risk puts the health of vulnerable people at serious risk. We can see it now with the corona virus. It is precisely because of this vulnerability that we must ensure that there are no products on the market that threaten vulnerable people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u66	Thank you. Yet another interruption by Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u67	A question, though. Of course, Mr Van Otterloo is not here alone as a private person. It's nice to hear he doesn't eat meat every day. I am simply asking the question today to a number of parties. I think it is right that the supporters of any party should be told by their leaders: dear people, you realize that there is no such thing as animal-friendly meat. The whole of the Netherlands was outraged by the images from the slaughterhouses we saw. Even if the rules are complied with, it is a tragedy for the animals there. So let us all do our best to reduce the consumption of meat, dairy and eggs. Let's start with that. Is 50PLUS willing to pass that on to its own supporters?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u68	We have a programme which is green in many respects. This also concerns the moderation of the consumption of articles. That does not mean steaks of 400/500 grams. You can do it much smaller. We know that from abroad; we do not want that. We want to be able to eat things with moderation. Everyone has to decide how to put their diet together, but they have to do it with moderation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u69	Thank you for your input. I call Mr De Groot on behalf of the Democrats 66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u70	Mr. Chairman. With the regularity of the clock, we are shocked by horrible images of animal cruelty in slaughterhouses. We are all standing here on our backs; the Minister promises to get better, there are motions, there will be a committee or an investigation, and we will go back to the order of the day. In doing so, we always leave the core of the system untouched, and that is that the bio-industry is morally and socially bankrupt. Mr. Chairman. Not only the abuse of pigs in slaughterhouses, but also food safety incidents give rise to fear. I mention a few things: salmonella in smoked salmon, fipronil in chicken eggs, listeria in meat. D66 is concerned about food safety in this country. The enforcement by the NVWA is downright flawed, while this organisation should protect us from unsafe food. And, more importantly, I don't see any improvement. There are good people working, sure, but the organization itself is hearing, seeing and silent. Is the Minister aware of how vulnerable that is and how food safety cannot be guaranteed in this country? D66 does not accept concessions in the field of food safety. Mr. Chairman. The incidents are the tip of the iceberg. In preparation for this debate, I spoke with NVWA staff in the north and in the south. They came forward. Some of them had the Minister's explicit permission to do so. What I hear both in the north and in the south suggests that it's no different than it was a year ago. At NVWA there is a culture of not reporting; there is a culture of not maintaining. The leadership is aware, but does not deal with the complaints. And employees don't feel safe. The non-maintainment by the NVWA continues to this day, and it doesn't get any better. The Minister also acknowledged this in her letter of 11 February. I quote: 'The pressure on the slaughter process, motivated by economic considerations, has, in my opinion, become too great to guarantee the interests of animal welfare and food safety, but also adequate supervision, in an adequate way'. I should like to congratulate you on your frankness, but the Minister says in so many words that she is no longer able to guarantee our food safety. This observation cannot therefore lead to yet another process in which everyone has to sit down again. This has happened so often, for example in connection with the horse meat affair in 2013. The magic word, the holy grail, was then "chain-lock." I haven't gotten a whiff of that yet; I looked at that website yesterday. I have also drawn attention to it a few times, and patience is running out. So now is the time for action. This means that the tyre speed, as a major engine of the industrial killing of animals, must now be substantially reduced. Then we need to look at how we can come up with the measures that will guarantee food safety and animal welfare. Then we have to look closely at the priorities. Sometimes I don't get it anymore. Why not maintain at slaughterhouses or at a bird show in Zwolle where there is a risk of parrot disease, and do unannounced checks at the Food Bank? There are agreements with Marketplace, but the internet sales of animals with coupled ears or too young animals continue. Then there's the risk analysis. It's gotta be in order. What's taking so long? In the agreements on the 2Solve report, the vetwelders are part of those agreements. Does the Minister now have a better view of this link? From the mobile killing unit I know the evaluation is coming, but I also hear that the categories have been adapted. So now sick animals from the farm are killed with the mobile killing unit, after which they come into consumption. That's gotta stop from today. That category was added in January. Then the most important thing. I ask the Minister to make real progress on the reform of the agricultural sector. You have written a fine note on circular agriculture, but you owe it to consumers and farmers to make something of it. Because circular farming is not just about feeding animals differently, not just about manure and not just about soil biology that we are going to rediscover, but it is also about animal welfare. I do not see enough action from the Minister on that point. Only a fundamental change in agriculture will help break the misery that we see every day in slaughterhouses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u71	These are firm words from Mr De Groot. It has also been taken from my heart, because I also receive the signals he gets from employees. But Mr De Groot's contribution is limited to analysing and naming the problems. But the minister is also in the government on behalf of D66. I have two questions for Mr De Groot. How does he assess the Minister's policy? And the second question is: what does he see, apart from lowering the band speed, that I agree with him as the game changer for improving enforcement and monitoring?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u72	The game changer is to functionally change the system, to work on that reform and to work on circular agriculture. It also recognises that the farmer is stalling, especially in the current system. That's the game changer: working on it day to day. That will take time and you must do so together with all those involved, but that is the real solution. There is therefore no point, as I said in my introduction, in submitting a whole pile of motions from the Chamber. I may be guilty of that myself, but we've been doing that for so long here. That is my observation. The only thing I can come up with is that you're gonna bring down that tire speed first, until you can guarantee food safety and animal welfare, and at the same time have the conversation with the sector. Because we have had that other order for too long, and it has not produced any results.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u73	I do not hear Mr De Groot giving an assessment of the Minister's policy. I hear him mention two measures. One of them is concrete, namely lowering the speed of the tire. I very much agree with that. The second is the perspective of circular agriculture. But what does circular farming solve for animal trade? What is the solution of circular agriculture to the problem of the excessive engine power of coastal fishing? For me, it is still a mystery what Mr De Groot sees as a fundamental solution with his criticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u74	There is one thing I can tell you: it is not going to work very well for fishing. But circular agriculture is about, if you do well, also providing less animals with a good sandwich for farmers, so that the pressure of the system goes. The system is incredibly under pressure. That leads to the great band speeds we now have. The pressure of the system needs to be maintained, so that as an organization you can maintain where necessary. With the current way of working there is so much pressure on the system. Even if you put the entire slaughterhouse full of inspectors and put a checker next to every farmer with manure, it wouldn't work. That is the thrust of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u75	First of all, I would like to thank Mr De Groot for mentioning the abuse of the MDUs, the mobile killing units. I look forward to the Minister's response to this. Mr De Groot spoke about food safety. Tens of thousands of pounds of rejected meat are missing. It's said every time it doesn't, but it does. They probably ended up in the food cycle. Mr De Groot may be able to ask a question about this. Then there's the gag order. I am very pleased to hear you say that at least this Minister does not impose bans on speaking. This Minister is very much in favour of this, and I also hear from the people of NVWA that we are being talked to. So this minister has nothing to do with it, but there is a certain level of management that has recently, in recent days, banned people from speaking with politics; that has even gone around by e-mail. That's just outrageous, honestly! They ignore not only the House of Representatives, but also the Minister, who says that people should speak to politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u76	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u77	I'd like Mr. De Groot to think of that as well, possibly. 'Cause I didn't make it to say everything in my term, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u78	But you've already asked three questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u79	Sure. I'll save the rest for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u80	I'd love to. Thank you. Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u81	I have the impression that Mr Graus has used a piece of his text for this interruption. I'd be happy to pass the questions on to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u82	That was just too fast again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u83	Yeah, well, Mr. De Groot won't get away with it that easily either. What does D66, as a coalition partner, think about the fact that senior managers of the NVWA simply prohibit them from speaking with politics? So not only with the PVV's touch, but also with D66. There is a ban on speaking with politics. They'd rather shove it under the carpet and keep it small than deal with animal executioners. That's the bottom line.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u84	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u85	I'd rather not have any contact with whistleblowers at all, I say honestly, because if it goes well, it goes well. There are just a lot of good employees at the NVWA, who just have to be able to do their job. Why do they come to politics? I have indeed spoken to one of them, who said: the Minister agrees that we are doing this. Why do they come to politics? Because they feel frustrated in their work. That can happen, but these are just good people with good education, who really know what they're talking about. Each time the sounds, of multiple people, are the same: that there is poor communication between supervision and enforcement. That's also in 2Solve's report. The signals are simply not sufficiently picked up by the management; no follow-up is given. That leads to frustration at some point. Such signals do indeed come from the leadership, are known to the leadership, but there is no active policy on them. I must therefore agree with you on this point. I do not think it is acceptable for the leadership to intimidate people who are forced to act as whistleblowers in this way. I'll say something about that later. I also have a motion for a resolution on this, because the freedom and security of people to do their work there to the best of their consciences is at the heart of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u86	I see that Mrs Ouwehand is waiting for Mr De Groot to finish his speech. He'll have a minute for that. But Mr Geurts wants to take his chance now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u87	I was waiting nicely until Mrs Ouwehand would have been, but my question is about the point that Mr De Groot just mentioned about the speed of the band. I read the letter of the House of Representatives very carefully. It states that the regulator has the explicit power to reduce the tyre speed. It also states that the Minister intends to discuss with the sector a proposal for the assessment of tyre speed in April. I don't quite get it. Could Mr De Groot explain to me what band speed should go down? Each butchery has different tire speeds. It varies by the hour, it varies by the day. Which one would you like to go downstairs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u88	I deliberately left that open in order to give the Minister the room to make this exact assessment. But that it has to go down substantially, that is clear. It seems very important to me to do so first. Otherwise these talks will be drawn in length and not enough action will be taken. Then there will be a long talk about chain security, but in the end too few measures will be taken. That's what that horse meat affair showed me. So just put pressure on it by lowering that tire speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u89	I'm a little confused about the question of what a horse meat affair has to do with that band speed, but that must be me. I was up at 2:00 p.m., I think. I am really concerned with the question: when it comes to the speed of the band, from what tempo to what tempo should that happen? 'Cause that's just different by the hour. How does Mr De Groot intend to punish who?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u90	The point is, you're gonna talk to business in a different way. You need to put pressure on that business with a substantial reduction in tyre speed. That will vary from one slaughterhouse to another. The Minister will have competent people who can advise her on this. But first business must feel the hot breath of politics, and then there will be quick action. Because this is just taking too long, this is a ritual. And we're gonna have to break that down sometime. We'll have to have that courage sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u91	This means that the band speed has to be halved according to D66, and then it can go back to 100%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u92	You're making it a caricature. You often do that with serious proposals. The point is that there is another way of speaking to business here. Otherwise the minister's toes will be played. Then there will be a play on time and in the meantime the next scandal will take place. What is even more important is that food safety cannot be guaranteed at the moment. Every day cuts are carried out in South carcasses. There are defiled carcasses, knives are not cleansed; I know much what I hear about them. You're gonna get scared. You shouldn't want to. Nor should the CDA want us to run this risk in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u93	You're luring each other out a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u94	Mr President, I am now being addressed in person. No, the CDA doesn't want that. I don't want to. But then tell me where you're coming from and where you're going with this. That doesn't make any sense to me now. I'm indicating that those tire speeds are just different. And not cleaning knives, that's just unacceptable, but that's human action. That doesn't have anything to do with that tire speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u95	That has everything to do with the pressure and the speed of the tire. Those people just don't have time to do their job. The auditors don't have time to make reports. There is a huge pressure from the NVWA on certain regulators not to lower the tire speed. We need to break that system. It's not a favorite measure. In the past, I have also resisted the possibility of intervening so much in this business. But I am now ready to say: we should turn the conversation around and put pressure on things. As a result, we remove the pressure on the animals and better guarantee food safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u96	Mr De Groot continued his speech and went on to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u97	Better enforcement starts with...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u98	I'm sorry, I'm gonna have to interrupt you again. Mrs Bromet, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u99	I was pleased to hear Mr De Groot's last remarks. He said, "I'm ready now." He began by saying that the Chamber never cared about the system change that should take place. I do not know who he was talking about, but there are parties here, including GroenLinks, who have been talking about this for decades. So it's nice that D66 is here now, but it's really not like it's never been said that systems need to be changed. Does Mr De Groot agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u100	In fact, D66 and GroenLinks have often fought side by side. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u101	Mr De Groot continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u102	Really, Mr. Chairman. Better enforcement starts with a safe working environment. The list of incidents of violence against inspectors is too long, with the lowest point being that the owner of a slaughterhouse hits an NVWA examiner against the plain. The same medical examiner has been told by her employer that she should do something else. D66 and CDA already asked questions about the working conditions of slaughterhouse staff. It is so large that it takes three months for staff to undergo training or even to be tolerated that there is no need for a course at all. That is why the next question to the Minister. How will it ensure that the NVWA provides a safe working environment? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The situation with regard to our food safety is worrying. It calls for far-reaching measures to be taken immediately by the Minister. The Minister can only prevent accidents by substantially reducing the tyre speed and ensuring a safe working environment for the employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u103	Thank you for your input. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u104	Mr. Chairman. I want to compliment D66. Indeed, proposals have been made earlier to reduce that band speed. Now D66 says he wants this, too. D66 combines this with the necessary shrinkage of the number of animals in livestock farming, because that means that you have to slaughter fewer animals in total. I also congratulate you on the moral bankruptcy of the bio-industry. But I do have a question for him, because we have had a debate on the agreement with Canada, CETA in the last 15 hours, and I hear from the D66 group chairman that it is so fantastic that we can all export cheese to Canada. Is there not also a moral problem in dairy farming? Every year the cow is artificially inseminated so that every year that animal gets a calf, which is then removed from her. I would expect a position on this from D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u105	I believe that Mrs Ouwehand of the Animal Party has also put this question to my group chairman. Where improvements are possible and where you can address something targeted................................................................................................................................................................................................... But there are also problems in dairy farming. They have something to do with the fat meadows. I've asked the Minister about that. Of course, it is not the intention to have cows that are no longer in production patch up half of them and then have them slaughtered in a way that does not give them a worthy end. If you keep an animal, for milk or cheese with a cow or for meat with a pig.............................................................................................................. That is a completely different discussion from the discussion on exports, because exports should focus on the quality and added value of products rather than on the lowest price.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u106	I know that Mr De Groot has already decided not to eat meat. If you say the words "morally bankrupt," you can't stay away from the whole system of milk production. In this system a defenseless animal is inseminated every year and then a young child is born, which is taken away immediately after delivery so that the milk can be appropriated. This is also the case in organic dairy farming. I challenge Mr De Groot to support the Animal Party in any case, so that we can be transparent about it. People have no idea. We've also seen footage...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u107	Your point is clear, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u108	... about the slaughter of laying hens. Those were biological laying hens. People don't know that's behind eggs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u109	Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u110	Does D66 support the Party for Animals and the call to tell people just so they know what lies behind milk, meat, dairy and eggs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u111	You tell me every day, and I think that's fine. For the rest, there is a difference between the Party for Animals and D66. You shout "the future is vegan" and D66 says "that's very bad for the earth." I'll explain to you again why.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u112	Mr Futselaar on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u113	I do not think I am the only one who wondered in the run-up to today's debate: what should I say about NVWA without repeating, without saying things I have said several times, rarely positive, because there is often reason to do so. I thought: I start expressing my despondency about the file, but then I found out that I already did it last month. Nevertheless, I would also like to highlight the many good work that employees of the NVWA do. They monitor our food safety every day, maintain animal welfare and prevent environmental damage, often excellent and sometimes under quite difficult conditions. They don't always get the praise they deserve for that, at least not from me. But it is inherent to politics and to this Chamber to focus above all on things that are not going well. And unfortunately that is a lot of things at the NVWA and also quite structural, both within the organisation and outside in the execution. For example, we see that in the implementation it is not going well on the basis of the images in the slaughterhouses, for example, and of the indication that NVWA employees may be involved in animal abuse, as we read in the deafening 2Solve report. Even within the organization, things are not going well. We have seen how great ambitions, including with the new ICT system, have completely failed, resulting in millions of damage and demotivated employees. Although at the moment no less than three external agencies are investigating the future of the NVWA, this does not relieve us of the obligation to think about the organisation here too. For example, one of the core tasks of the NVWA is enforcement. It's already been referred to. That's the point. The 2Solve report also stated that veterinarians were adopted at a time when enforcement was not yet the priority of NVWA. It is good to think for a moment about the meaning of that phrase "enforcement has never been the priority." But even now, purely in business terms, enforcement is simply a cost for the NVWA. The more that happens, the more complicated it gets. And if NVWA employees don't get extra hours when they prepare a report of findings, they have an incentive not to do too much and therefore to limit enforcement. That's problematic. We hear from employees that this is happening in practice. I cannot escape the impression that NVWA would benefit much more if it were a flat organisation, more in terms of implementation. Of the five directors within the NVWA, two are primarily focused on execution, the management Keuren and the management Handhaven. The question seems legitimate whether this should not be given much more attention and less attention to organisational issues and the strategy side, for example. I understand the philosophy behind risk assessment profiles and so on. However, I wonder whether it would be best to consider the risk of abuses in a slaughterhouse, fraud in the transport of manure or unsafe food lots by drawing up extensive profiles in practice, with experience. Didn't we just freak out? Shouldn't we give more space to professionals in the execution? I do not think that the Minister can elaborate on her vision of the new NVWA after the re-employment, but I would like to hear about the direction. This debate is, of course, also marked by recent reports of abuses. We see abuses in abattoirs coming back over and over again. Then you must conclude that your instruments of control, enforcement and sanctions are not working properly enough. The Minister sent us a letter. Honestly, I liked the spirit of that letter. I can agree with the idea that you say that we are not only going to look at incidents and individual measures, but also at the whole production system, and that is what we are going to do. We see an image of slaughterhouses with huge production requirements and underpaid and overworked employees, who are often not powerful in Dutch. In those circumstances, one should not be surprised when mistakes are made, whether in the field of hygiene or animal welfare. The best way to deal with abuses is to get them out in the open. The SP therefore calls on staff from slaughterhouses to report any abuses of this kind. This can now also be done at www.domemee.sp/slaughterhouses. This appeal also applies explicitly to employees of the NVWA who have the idea of not being heard enough within their own organisation. Of course, we will treat their notifications confidentially. Stricter requirements for slaughterhouses are good. Mandatory camera surveillance is good. Looking at tape speed reduction is good. Such things were undisputed a few years ago. But to enforce real improvements, looking at the production method is the best option. The Minister already states that the tyre speed can be reduced by mandatory reduction in, for example, observed hygiene abuses. As far as we are concerned, this could also be the case in the case of animal welfare offences that have been detected. So shouldn't you make a link in your instruments? Not only fines and closure, but also, if things go wrong: bring the tire speed down again for a while. In my opinion, this is a way of getting companies a little harder than the umpteenth fine they put in their pockets, after which they continue in the same way. Just a little more. There's a shortage of vets. That too is one of the problems. After all, it also means that it is quite difficult for the NVWA to replace people she would not want in her organisation, because they were adopted at a time when enforcement was not the priority. I find it difficult to understand in this context that we are limiting the number of training places in the Netherlands with a numerus fixus, while at the same time we have a screaming shortage of training places, which means that Dutch students go to Belgium to study there. Those students we hire again, and the Belgians are furious because they pay for the training of our students. Is the Minister prepared to examine with her colleague whether the number of training places in the Netherlands can be increased, perhaps even in a different place than in Utrecht alone? Finally. Normally, I always finish my contribution in debates on the NVWA with the question whether the Minister believes that the budget of the NVWA is sufficient to carry out its tasks. I will not do that now, because this is the subject of one of the three external investigations currently under way. However, I would like to say that, as far as I am concerned, although not all the problems with money can be solved, some problems cannot be solved without additional money. I'm afraid there are quite a few such problems at NVWA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u114	Thank you for your input. Mr Graus has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u115	Mr Futselaar has said a lot of wise words, as always. I thank him for that. My question is what, according to the SP, should happen before a slaughterhouse is closed down. Pigs get kicked, beaten, even in front of vets. They are thrown into boiling water, you name it all. It's all going on and on. I've seen that for 13 years. What should happen before we close a slaughterhouse?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u116	I think this is a genuinely difficult question, because in my opinion this has to be judged by a professional. I think a vet should assess that. The big problem is that we see that such things happen when it appears that vets are there and are involved in them. This is a problem linked to how the system works in practice. But the consideration of what can and cannot be done must be made by a veterinarian. The same applies to the accumulation. One time you can say: okay, an incident, you get a fine or something. But at four times you could go to lockdown. That will have to be laid down by the NVWA in its own protocols. However, we can see that what is happening now is not enough, because the problems do not seem to improve in any way. In fact, it actually seems to be getting worse and worse. So it's not enough. We can make that observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u117	Thank you for your answer and your input. I call Mrs Lodders, on behalf of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u118	Mr. Chairman. Once in a while, we are shocked by a message of images from a slaughterhouse showing abuses. Horrible images and stories. The VVD has only one answer: you deal with animals properly. If you don't, you're gonna get your ass kicked. And if this happens more often, a slaughterhouse simply needs to close. The NVWA should be the authority in the areas of food safety, consumer products, animal welfare and the environment. People should be able to rely on a service that acts when necessary and which, in the event of repeated infringements, imposes sanctions and, in the final case, closes. Time and time again, we unfortunately see images that damage the confidence in the NVWA. People who see these images are concerned about the safety of their food, or are angry about the way animals are handled. In addition, these images put all good and benevolent entrepreneurs and companies in a bad light. That too is harmful and we cannot accept it. How is it possible, in particular, that inspectors are constantly present in the medium and large slaughterhouses, but that they do not occur in these cases? RTL's footage even shows that the NVWA inspector is watching. Of course you can't. Why aren't abuses fined? The VVD and other parties have successfully argued for higher fines, but that is not helpful if they are not imposed. Following the latest incident, the Minister indicated that the tyre speed of the slaughter process should be reduced. That's a firm statement, where you can ask the question if this solves the problem. The Minister must ensure that inspectors are not hindered and can also act as enforcement officers if necessary. Obstruction of an NVWA inspector or a supervisor is punishable. Then why not intervene when these people are hindered? Why isn't there a report? In the event of incidents such as these, a substantial fine should be imposed and the NVWA should, on a regular basis, proceed to temporary closure or closure. However, with the generic calling up of measures, you will also find the slaughterhouses that have the place in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u119	At this point, I think there is an interruption. Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u120	Isn't the biggest fine for a slaughterhouse that you lower the core of the slaughterhouse, namely the tire speed? Isn't that a very good fine?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u121	I don't care what kind of fine we impose in the event of a violation. Whether that is a high fine that actually affects a company or a reduction in the speed of the tire, it should ultimately hit the wallet, so that you are not challenged again to make that offense happen. Whichever sanction it is, frankly, I don't really care. I think they can be imposed on both of them. D66, the PVV and the Party for Animals are for higher fines. There are, but then put them on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u122	Mr. De Groot, clear? Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u123	As Mrs Lodder argues, it's all simple: you notice something and then you verbalize or at least you're going to maintain it. But isn't that a bit superficial analysis? I quote from the report of the Security Research Council: "... which oversees for five years on the basis of negotiations on plans instead of sanctioning." And elsewhere: "The supervisors solve shortcomings together with the company. If the company fails to comply with agreements, sanctions will be delayed for a long time." This indicates a system, a culture that does not exactly invite us to impose and enforce sanctions. Shouldn't you go deeper in the analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u124	Sure. I'll come back to that later in my story. I think Mr Moorlag knows me as a Member of Parliament who is critical of the NVWA. I have talked many times about this cultural aspect. The culture must be that there is simply enforcement action. Of course, there may be something that a fault with the system can cause something that can't be done. Then you need to fix that. If you fix that right away, I'm thinking, well, good, fine. Then there may be a reprimand or a fine, but I do not see that as a structural error. But if there are actual abuses, we've both seen the videos, and that's what it's about. What I read about this situation shows that it has not been possible. I don't understand, because it's really been a while since we talked about higher fines and rising fines when incidents are a recurring pattern.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u125	I think it's too simple anyway. I think you should take a sting deeper into the underlying causes, into the production compulsion that's in it. I agree with Mr Futselaar that there are a lot of people who want to do their job well under difficult circumstances. Shouldn't you be looking at the whole system? Do you think there's any way to operationalize rules? You need to look at culture traits.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u126	Your point is clear. Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u127	Just a lot of stings deeper.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u128	I think the VVD is just a party that has zoomed in on the NVWA ever more deeply. That's not from the last six months. I dare say that this has been going on for a number of years. So you have to look at the cultural aspect. I would like to point out that there are a lot of well-intentioned NVWA employees in all layers of the organisation, but unfortunately we also see too many of these abuses in which there is little or no intervention. This undermines acceptance and undermines confidence in an inspection service. That's the point. That is very bad, by the way. I'll get back to you in a minute. At the same time, I would also like to point out that there are a lot of well-intentioned abattoirs where it is just neat for each other. Last summer I was allowed to visit four abattoirs. There was another reason. I made those visits because of the heat. I have also seen a lot of good things there, in the control, in the inspection, in the way animals are handled, in the way food is ultimately handled. So I do not want to put all the abattoirs on the same footing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u129	Mrs. Lodders... Yet, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u130	So this is what we know about whistleblowers, huh? We know that the tire speed is lowered for a while and that everything goes smoothly when there is control. I imagine that this slaughterhouse, when Mrs Lodders of the VVD comes to take a look, will not, of course, continue to be the murderous pace at which these animals and food safety are getting in the way all the time. I would like to call on Mrs Lodder not to be so naive here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u131	Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u132	My question is about the images that Mrs Lodder says: we have seen things that are simply not allowed. I saw those statues in that pig-slaughter house, for example, pigs with huge growths. This means that the rules have not been properly observed in the stables where those animals have been kept. We also know that supervision there is only 2% or 3%. What is the VVD going to do to ensure that enforcement is in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u133	Mrs Ouwehand gives a very poignant example here. Of course, that pig should never have been on the truck. A pig that can't walk shouldn't be on a truck. That's where the inspection goes wrong. That means you have to be very critical about that. You have to stick to that, too. You need to intervene the moment it takes place. This is also an example that shows that the speed of the band, on which a number of members are very focused, has no influence whatsoever on how animals go on a truck or come off it. I think we need to look very closely at where you can step up that monitoring, where that should take place and how to make it better and more effective, because it needs to be more effective. I'll come up with a proposal in a minute. You've been able to read about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u134	Mrs. Ouwehand, please be more concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u135	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I will. Surely it cannot be that the VVD rejects the proposal to reduce the tyre speed in slaughterhouses, because everything goes wrong in the stables? The VVD says you have to intervene when you see things go wrong there. The VVD says: maintain, maintain, maintain. Then we'll have to do the same in those stables. There are too few people there in proportion to the number of animals in those stables. What is the VVD's proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u136	The VVD has been advocating more effective and efficient supervision for years. We all see that the world around us is changing, while we continue to do supervision in the same way. I shall now come to the specific proposal that I would like to make about slaughterhouses and how NVWA should deal with them. Let me also take the example of the way in which all kinds of products are offered for sale on Facebook or Twitter, for example. In recent days, in the run-up to this debate, I have seen the example of the Polish Roundup. This is offered via Facebook. Surely it has to be much simpler to monitor that and to shape that supervision? I think this has really not been given enough place in the supervision of the NVWA. There has to be a change in that, because this is the simplest way to deal with these types of guests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u137	Mrs Lodder's answers refer a few times to parts of her speech, so let us now listen to them. You can ask your question when your question is not answered or not answered, otherwise we will make little progress. Mr Graus, you may be so, but I will first give Mrs Lodder the opportunity to speak a little more. Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Now that concrete action by the Minister is lacking and agreements have been reached in the government agreement on more effective and efficient supervision, I make a concrete proposal. Most medium-sized and large abattoirs now have cameras. Continuous scanning of camera images is an effective and efficient way of monitoring animal welfare. I would like to plead here for special staff watching this footage. In addition to the physical inspection at the slaughterhouse, an employee of the NVWA can remotely assess these images. In the event of incidents, immediate action may be taken. In slaughterhouses where the handling of animals is well secured and is confirmed by images, monitoring can take place less frequently. Interventions are being carried out in slaughterhouses where the situation is poor. This does not even need to be limited to the monitoring of animal welfare. If this person sees other things that are not acceptable, then that signal can also be shared with the relevant supervisor. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she is prepared to move on to this new form of supervision. I'm considering tabling a motion in the second term. In addition to the above, I am very concerned about the NVWA. I think it was Mr Geurts who mentioned it: EUR 65 million for a failed ICT project, and the shortcomings in efficiency and effectiveness. Much can be traced back to the cultural problems in the organization, and that is not crazy. The organisation was merged in 2012 and then almost every ruler came up with an improvement plan, a plan of approach or rethinking. After the last ICT debacle, this minister also decided to have a rethink carried out. I think that the Chamber can also look critically at itself. In the meantime, nothing happens. People in the workplace are becoming insecure, seeing yet another change in organisation, seeing negative news and all this does not promote the joy of work for these people. I would like to know from the Minister how she is going to bring the organisation into a calmer waters and how she is going to ensure that the necessary steps towards efficient and effective supervision are implemented. This is not only the issue in the slaughterhouses, but also in all the other matters for which the NVWA was created. The Minister has already promised that the Chamber will be informed about a problem analysis at the end of February and that the Chamber will have a look at the change approach and measures. I trust the Minister will stick to this planning. I also want a very concrete roadmap, with time and money per measure, because that has really been left behind in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u139	Thank you. Then Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u140	I have a question about the plan presented by Mrs Lodders. I was thinking very deeply about the question in which that plan is different from the camera surveillance we have now. Is it just the reduction in camera surveillance at the time it goes well, or is it something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u141	No, what the VVD is proposing is permanent camera surveillance. It is, in a manner of speaking, a question of constantly looking at it in the head office of the NVWA in Utrecht. Now the camera images are used to look afterwards if something did not go well. We say, "Look at that all the time." If you put down one or two employees, they can monitor a number of screens. That is not the physical control that you have to keep at the slaughterhouse in order to assess whether animals are healthy or not healthy. So you'll still have that control, but monitoring the course of such a slaughterhouse can really be taken over with camera surveillance. I know Mrs Bromet as someone who also makes a lot of work visits, so I guess she has also been there. This can be more efficient and therefore more effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u142	Is Mrs Lodder willing to release those cameras, so that they are just public and anyone who eats a piece of meat can see live in the slaughterhouses as well as the people who don't eat meat?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u143	No, Mr. Chairman. I'm not prepared to do that. We should not go there, otherwise we will have discussions with each other very often. We have rules with each other. We ask slaughterhouses to shape the slaughter process in accordance with the rules. We have an inspection, the Dutch Food and Service Authority, which is responsible for monitoring this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u144	There may be more people watching, also vets, via cameras, but if they don't have a enforcement mentality, and if they're intertwined with the slaughterhouse... That is the problem. The vets are kicking and hitting. If they don't kick and hit, they're gonna look like bumper cars and don't intervene. They're afraid to intervene either. Some have genuine fear. There's no nice atmosphere in a slaughterhouse. It is often an intimidating, threatening atmosphere. I really thought the VVD was a law and order party. We have been asking for years because there is a lot of intertwining with this sector: send someone from Justice and Security, so an animal policeman or woman, a duo team, there. Trust me, it'll be over in one day, Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u145	I think the proposal that the VVD has now made has the same effect. At the moment when a N.V.A.W.A. is remotely judging that footage, it doesn't feel any intimidation from that slaughterhouse, if there was one. He is at a distance, but he can say: 'Hey, this is fundamentally wrong, this is a mistake, I'm taking it now'. He picks up the phone, calls the inspector in question. I'm not gonna tell you how to do that here. I would ask the Minister to do so, preferably before the summer, so that we can do so. I think that's much more effective than putting two, three or four people at each slaughterhouse. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No pressure from the outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u146	We will certainly support this second best proposal, because GroenLinks, the Party for Animals, the SP and we have asked for it before. So we will certainly support that and we will not lie down for that, but you cannot do everything with cameras. There must be people on the ground to protect animals and to approve animals, as it is called, which I find a terrible word. But why not include an animal policeman or a woman? Then it's end of practice, then it stops, then they don't dare!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u147	I think Mr Graus and I are really very close together in what we want. Those cameras can be deployed very effectively. With two people behind a six-shield desk, I'll mention but what do you have much more overview than with a single inspector or someone from the animal police who would like to put you in that slaughterhouse? I think we're very close: just keep following that process. These people experience no pressure from the workplace, no pressure at all, and if they find that there is a failure, a real disorder, then perhaps there should be a red button. I've heard that proverbial red button come by before, putting a stop to the company. Then such a NVWA inspector can assess remotely whether it's true that he still hasn't seen a fine report. I think this is really working really well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u148	I am glad that the VVD is now also enthusiastic about camera surveillance. The Party for Animals asked for this earlier and then the VVD didn't really want to participate. But I do wonder whether Mrs Lodders is also curious about how it has worked so far in the abattoirs that already have it. How many times did the NVWA pull that footage? And what do they do with that? I think we need to know about the Minister. My second question, therefore, has not been answered in the rest of Mrs Lodder's speech concerning the stables. There's a lot going wrong there too, otherwise those pigs won't end up in that slaughterhouse with huge growths. How are we gonna do that? There is only 2% supervisory intensity per year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u149	Mr. Chairman. The first part of Mrs Ouwehand's question. How many times have these cameras been looked in? I think it is a fair question, which I would like to pass on to the Minister. I think, again, too little, because the incidents we've seen would give me cause to look back at those images, but I'm not an inspector. I've seen things there that just really can't. It just makes you uncomfortable. I think we are in complete agreement on that. When it comes to monitoring in the rest of the chain, that is where we organised the supervision as we organised it. It is impossible, we have to be honest in that too, to put an inspector in every stable, every truck, every link in the chain. I think that is also the difference, I say in the direction of Mrs Ouwehand, between the VVD and the Party for Animals. That is why we have not always supported the motions of the Party for Animals before. Why? Because the Party for the Animals has a different purpose. The VVD considers it important that people who want to eat a piece of meat can actually continue to eat a piece of meat. Mrs Ouwehand really has a different objective in her speech. That's okay, but that's the difference between the Party for Animals and the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u150	Finalizing, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u151	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but there is a difference between "in every barn an inspector" and "only once every 50 years getting an inspector by." Right? Mrs Lodders will agree with me. So again, my question is: if you're on those images, which have been created by an activist... Thanks to an activist and not thanks to the NVWA, we have been able to see that just animals are brought in with growths. That means those animals come from stables where they didn't get the care they legally should have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u152	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u153	What are we gonna do about this surveillance? Because the VVD will agree with me that 2% or 3% supervisory intensity per year is very little.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u154	Finally, Mrs Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u155	Mrs Ouwehand says, "thanks to an activist." I'm not proud of that. It's bad enough that that happens this way. The damage, and certainly the emotion in people where these people are invading, is really enormous. We have talked about this a number of times. So I will not repeat that debate, but I would like to say here that I am not okay with that. And about supervision, I said what I said. We all know pigs get checked out before they get on the wagon. I don't want a pig that can't walk on the wagon. A cow with a broken leg can't wear a cattle car. These are rules that the entrepreneur, the farmer, the transporter and the slaughterhouse have to abide by. So there is three times when you can say: hey, this did not go well and we have to act there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u156	Thank you for your input. This also brings us to the end of the Court's contribution in the first term. I suggest we suspend for dinner break. We don't do that for too long; there's a 45-minute dinner break. We'll continue at 7:15. And if you cooperate, maybe we'll come to the time of the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u157	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the Dutch Food and Veterinary Authority. We need the first term from the government. I call the Minister of LNV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would first like to thank Members for the fundamental debate we are actually having today. There have been several direct reasons for putting this debate on the agenda, but it is of course now also planned in response to the last horrible images we have seen about what happened at a slaughterhouse and how the animals were treated there. But several members recalled that there were also cases where things did not go well, for example also findings that have emerged from NVWA's own reports. I welcome the fact that we are trying to zoom out a little more in this debate. What exactly is under here? That's what I tried to do in the letter I sent last week. Unfortunately, it is true: I can come to the Chamber regularly to talk about matters that we observe with each other. Then we're gonna tell each other that we don't like it, and then we're gonna figure out how to do it differently. But for me, the next question has to be at the heart of it. The Chamber represents society here. What do we think, what does society think of how we deal with animals until they enter the slaughterhouse and are slaughtered? Then what do we find acceptable and what not? And how does the supervisor relate to that? Because I also want to say this. I hear what the Chamber says about the NVWA. I hear what the Chamber says about what needs to be done better. I will explain in a moment what we are all doing in pathways to make improvements. But a supervisor can never be the ultimate responsible for everything we do. The responsibility begins, and ends as far as I am concerned, with all the people who are simply involved in the chain, each for themselves. And I say that politics has a role to play in that too. That is precisely why I believe that we and the Chamber should think more fundamentally about this. Earlier, on the issue of fipronil, the Court rightly raised the question of the division of responsibility between policy and supervision. What's supervision about? What's the policy about? Where should we make the choices for what we consider acceptable? And what do we leave to the supervisor? That is the debate on open standards. I've been feeding it to your room on a regular basis. I always say: there is only one discussion where the VVD and the Party for Animals meet; that is the one about the question: do there have to be open standards, yes or no? They both think, probably from a different angle, that they should not be too open and that they should be filled in by politics. That is a justified point, because we, as politicians, have a responsibility here. We can't just say to the supervisor "look what can happen," and if it doesn't go well: well, that's stupid, terrible, do better. No, we have a role in this. That is exactly why I said: what do we think is normal and acceptable about all the things that are going on around slaughter and things that are not going well? What are the choices we have to make in there? And what are the dilemmas that come to mind? It is then too limited to look only at what is happening at that very last moment. You won't. That was also one of the reasons for my letter. I therefore agree with the Members who say: only looking at the speed of the band is too limited. Agreed. Alone, it stands for something. It stands for a bigger story, a bigger question of what I almost call "a high-efficiency production." I find the words difficult, because we are also talking about live animals. Then "production" is always such a loaded word. But it stands for a high-efficiency system in which it is true that it must continue to be speeded up in order to keep that system working. I must honestly say that the fact that I came to the letter I sent you last week was also due to the conversations I myself had with a number of NVWA members. Following previous cases and the investigation of 2Solve, a group of veterinarians and inspectors from different places came together. They told me what their experiences were. Those are real people working with heart and soul. I would also like to emphasise this here, also towards people who comment on it. If things don't go well, then they need to be tackled, but the bulk of it is heart and soul. Really. And those people do that in a fucking hard place. For example, they told me about non-permanent supervision, where they have to be in different places. If they are then a few minutes late, the pressure is already high to get to work quickly and to see how things are going very quickly. If they see abuses, it is rather difficult to press a red button three times a day to stop a band like this. Then there are questions, such as "this doesn't go this way," "this costs me turnover," and "this is complicated." Those people have to work there. I respect that. Let me just say that first. You'll always be under so much pressure and you'll always feel like "I might have to or could do more, but somehow I don't feel quite free to do that, or is that really complicated". Then I think it should be up to us. We must then start thinking about the question: what is the way in which they can do their work, in which they can do justice to animal welfare and food safety, the things they have also been appointed for, and where, for example, they still have time to do team consultations? It's almost that basic. Do we have enough time to get together on a team and see how we're doing? The question then is: are we really going to improve things in this way if that need to be improved? For here too it is not true that everything is going well by itself, not even with those inspectors themselves, they do not say that either, but sometimes you have to have time to make improvements. Against that backdrop, I sent the letter that's in there right now. I believe that this is also the debate we should have with each other. Mr President, I am coming to the blocks I am going to deal with, but I thought it would be a good idea to outline the context in which I did this and why I did it. I come to a number of points. I shall begin with a number of more specific questions concerning slaughterhouses. Secondly, I come to the NVWA as an organisation and the things that are going on there. Then I come to the questions of food safety, enforcement and fraud. Finally, there are a few loose questions, for example about inshore fishing. That's a bit in a different corner, but there are also some questions about that. I have just said it in my introduction: 31 January last year there were really horrible images of the rough treatment of animals in a slaughterhouse. I said that I would now like to look more fundamentally at how we are dealing with this. Our current chain is mainly based on the principles of low cost and high output. How can we guarantee animal welfare and food safety? I want to do it this way. I really want to look at the system's vulnerabilities, and let me call it that, and what measures we need to take to remove those vulnerabilities. I just need input for that. I'm telling you the truth. I can't think of all that on the Bezuidenhoutseweg. So I want to involve scientists, employees of the NVWA and animal welfare organisations, but also the chain parties and those who work in this area themselves. I also want them to think with each other: how do we do it this way and on what matters do we say "this can't be done anymore" or "this should really be different"? If we have mapped that out with each other, it must lead to a number of choices. These are the choices I want to discuss with each other here, but of course also in consultation with NVWA, because it must be workable for her. And if things change, the sector must also be included. It may be a bit of a tricky truth, but I would like to add that animals are being slaughtered. When we eat meat, there comes a time when they are slaughtered. I can't make that prettier than it is. Let us also face that reality. If you're eating meat, there's something that's preceded it. In that process we need to realize together, I think, that at some points we have gotten a little away from what we eat and what it takes. I am not saying that to trivialize things, but to look at some sort of reality. That cannot always be made beautiful in itself; let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u159	It is good that the Minister consults with all kinds of stakeholders. I would actually ask the Minister not to turn it into an overly lengthy process, because there are simply conflicts of interest. They can't always be bridged. Political choices must also be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u160	Sure, I recognize that. Only, I do need some insights. I'm telling you the truth. I'm not omniscient in that respect. I'd like to involve him in that. Sure, it shouldn't take us very long. I'll share that. So that is what we are now going to do the more fundamental reflection on. I would just like to put it straight to a number of questions that have been asked: I would also like to include a number of suggestions that have already been made from your Chamber. I can see Mrs Lodders already standing about camera surveillance and how you could do that. I can say at this point that I find it an interesting thought. I really want to see how we can do more about that. Mrs Lodders also attaches it to a reduction in physical supervision. I am right in saying that the European regulation does not allow me to do that at all. There are rules to this: you also have to carry out real physical checks in slaughterhouses. At the same time, it is not the case that I say 'you could already change that now', if you already wanted to. I think that the most important question now is how we can ensure that things are improving in their entirety. Once again, I am really interested in Mrs Lodder's proposal; I am curious how she sees it. I think she's going to say a little more about that herself. These are all things that I really want to approach openly and which I want to involve in the discussion we need to have here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u161	I wasn't actually going to go into the proposal I made right now. I am actually concerned if we are going to look very specifically at this aspect of supervision, because I think that we need to look at more effective and efficient supervision for the whole NVWA. If we do that for the whole organisation, we will look not only at the slaughterhouses, but also at the examples I mentioned during my interruption. For example, look at what happens on Facebook. I myself set the example of the sale of Polish Roundup. That really takes place a lot. I heard Mr De Groot talking about animals being traded on Facebook. We need to move towards fundamentally different supervision, and we need to go along with the changing situation. The world around us is not like it was ten or fifteen years ago, so we really need to look wider. 'Cause otherwise we're gonna stick a Band-Aid here, while it's gonna hurt somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u162	I, and I also know the NVWA, are really open to ways of monitoring that allow us to be effective and efficient. I just said that I am dealing with a number of legal requirements. I have to comply with this, including from European regulations. That's what I'm gonna do. I'm not gonna give in to that. But in a lot of things that are going on, it's also the question of how to look at everything as a supervisor. Then we must also note that we cannot monitor everywhere. I believe Mrs Lodder was the first to say that when she just interrupted. So I think we should also have the discussion here about where we think the priority should be. Two clear priorities have been identified in the coalition agreement: food safety and animal welfare. Those are the things that I have also said to the NVWA: there is a priority there, so you really have to put the most capacity on that. They do. This does not mean that they do not do their other tasks around it, because their tasks are quite broad. We are really open to ways to see what else you could do in there to make it more efficient. So I do not think that is a contradiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u163	The coalition agreement also included something about ensuring that there was sufficient support for the agri-food sector. So that is what I think is important to include in these agreements. And the changing way of supervision actually applies widely. Because when we talk about those aspects, you also have to have the courage to look at how things are being dealt with at the moment. On social media and such you can find really important suggestions. I am glad that the Minister is open to this, but I do not want to come to the conclusion after this debate: that is good, because we have made a number of agreements again... That is what I said in my speech. Improving plans, rethinking and measures: despite everything, because it has still not led to that more efficient monitoring. So how are we going to make sure that that step is taken and that we don't stick with patches?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u164	I think we are about to have a rather extensive discussion about the organisation of the NVWA. That is because I still have a number of reports to send to the Chamber. That's about rethinking, about tasks and resources, about the discussion about cost-effectiveness and efficiency. I'm gonna take it out of my head for a while, but there are four of them; there's another one. All that goes to the Chamber at the same time. There is also a council of advice. I've set up an advisory board. That is what I am saying to Mr Moorlag, who asked about the committee of wise men. I've set up an advisory board. It is now also very dedicated, dedicated, watching: does it all work this way, where are any improvements, what else can there be? They're pretty much on top of that. I will also forward their findings to your Chamber, so that we can also include that opinion. On the basis of all these reports, I would also like to have this discussion. What can you expect from surveillance? What's being delivered? And what else is it gonna take to realize it that way? But I also say to Mrs Lodder that it is an organisation that has been changing a lot. We're trying to bring the peace back a little bit. That's not always easy, I say, but we can't always break iron with our hands. So sometimes things just need time to change, but I am very open to this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u165	Mrs. Lodders, really rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u166	Yes, concluding, Mr. Chairman. We hope to have this discussion at the end of February or at the latest in early March, on the basis of the reports available. But I'd like to give you the next win warning. The reports have been there since 2012. I have also pointed this out in my contribution. One report after the other comes, and we forget time and time again to implement all these measures. That is the last point, Mr President. I did not plead on behalf of the VVD not to implement the directives. On the contrary, but every directive does give room to do so in a good way. I think we're a little too harnessed in that. There is room to shape supervision with the knowledge and methods of today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u167	I didn't really hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u168	You're right about that. The Minister will be coming to the block of the NVWA as an organisation, because the first block was actually about the slaughterhouses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u169	I hear the Minister saying that she is considering a number of measures. She is also working at organisational level, but in my contribution I said: look a little further, at system level. We must also look at ourselves, at our laws with open standards. Are they even manageable? We also need to see whether self-regulation might be better organised. Furthermore, I believe that we need to see whether further down the chain, with the customers, checks-and-balances can be built in: that customers will also set quality standards. My plea was to really look at system level. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u170	I think I started my speech with that. I said that we should look at the system more fundamentally and that this also means something to politics. Again, I have drawn the discussion to politics, for example about what you are doing with the speed of the band and what you are doing with certain standards that are now more in the NVWA, while the appeal from the Chamber has rightly come to me to take a more position as minister there, and that is what I am doing to see what we can improve. I think that all these aspects are part of the debate on the rethink we are about to have in March. It's good to see where the possibilities are. These are all valuable suggestions that are taken into account. I would say: bring them back into that debate. We'll see what can be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u171	I would like to give you the floor, but you have all asked a lot of questions in your first term. The Minister said something about the structure of the debate. I think it is important that we give her a chance to answer a number of questions, otherwise you will all be going ahead and I have already seen four interruptions to repeat questions from the first term that the Minister has not yet come to. I hear Mr Moorlag say that he thinks his point is fundamental. It's fundamental, that's right. So I will give you the floor again, but I am going to get a little sharper, because that is not the way to end the debate at a Christian time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u172	My concern is him in here. Can the necessary changes be implemented from within the system? I have genuine concerns about that. It's hard to identify problems. The bottlenecks have often ended up with the Minister via an outside turn. Look at the 2Solve report; look at the BIT; look at this management and the role of the Ministry in the ICT project, which is completely out of control under the eyes of the Ministry. I think we should look at the whole system a little higher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u173	There are several layers in this question, I would almost say. On the ICT system: I have just intervened in this regard. We have drawn conclusions from that. I said that we are not going to do it this way anymore and that we need to do it much more with steps from the bottom up. That was also from the BIT research: it takes too long to allow a large design to land all the way down. It's too complex. So you have to be practical, from the bottom: what are the good examples? That's what we're really doing right now. I have seen some fine examples. Of course, I am talking to the IG about how we ensure that the information comes directly from the organization to us. We have been having this discussion with each other for a little longer. I'm not gonna stand in the way of people speaking to you from the NVWA, but of course I'd prefer that they speak directly to me, or at least to the bosses in the organization, so that information can come to me via that line. We're looking at what it takes to make sure that that space is felt, so that the signals are properly picked up. Of course, the 2Solve report is also an example of this, because there are things that can really be improved. So I agree that things need to be better there. I'm working on that. That's what I'm working on. Also, it is not that it changes very quickly, but it is really high on the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u174	I thank the Minister for her commitment to look more fundamentally. That's what she wrote in her letter. It is also good to hear that she has spoken to people from the workplace, so that she directly hears how much pressure that pressure is there. I have a question about the trajectory she's using. She says, "I can't do it alone; I need to talk to scientists." I'd like to hear who she's gonna involve. As far as I'm concerned, not the sector at first. She needs to see for herself with objective people first. I would also like to ask her to comment on the crazy question that NVWA has always been involved in determining the speed of the tire. Then the individual people who have to supervise say: but that is far too high, that is not really possible. Can the Minister respond to that when she comes to that block? And my question for now is: who is she going to involve in looking at the system in a good and fundamental way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u175	An honest answer is I don't have those names yet. I'm really still looking at who I need for that. If the Chamber wants information on who's involved, I'm prepared to share that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u176	I thought we were already working on the block in which the speed of tyres also plays a role, namely the block about the slaughterhouses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u177	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'm trying to put some structure into it. I'm gonna do my best to do that. I therefore come to a number of specific questions that have been asked. Mr Moorlag asked if I am prepared to bring down the pace of the slaughter lines. I want to see what is a speed that also fits with good supervision that can be kept there. I have just outlined how I intend to organise that process. I would also like to draw up proposals for this. I'll see where that leads pretty soon. To Mrs Ouwehand I say that the NVWA itself now decides which band speed is acceptable. There are requests for this too. I think we should do that. That's why I'm drawing this discussion to us. I believe that we need to look at what are then speeds which, on the one hand, ensure that the process can continue, but, on the other hand, ensure that it can be monitored properly. There's got to be that interaction. That will always be a weighting. That's also the honest answer. I think that Mrs Ouwehand will have a slightly different weighting than perhaps other parties, but that is what we need to have here. Mr Graus asked: what will be done with the people who stood there, who can be seen on those images? Can they not be punished through criminal law? In general, in the case of animal abuse, criminal penalties can be applied. That is a maximum of six years imprisonment for professional holders and a maximum of three years for other holders. It's good practice that it's up to the judge to determine what's the right penalty. Following the entry into force of the bill, there will be a possibility of holding ban on animal abuse and animal neglect, as an independent measure, in addition. This bill is, as you know, with JenV's colleague. He's working on it. Mr Graus says that the staff involved in the abuse should come before the veterinary disciplinary board. I understand that the NVWA veterinary surgeons are not subject to veterinary disciplinary law, but simply under the regular personnel policy of the NVWA. So that's civil service law. I have already indicated in the letter to the Chamber that the NVWA is now also looking at the behaviour of the veterinarians who have come into the picture and that appropriate action will be taken where necessary. Mr Graus says that the recurrent slaughterhouses must be demolished. The same goes for the slaughterhouse that was shown on the footage. The NVWA has an intervention policy. That is something Mr Graus knows, because he has often argued in favour of tightening it up. There are several possibilities for the action of the NVWA in the event of infringements. If these violations continue to recur despite the intervention of the NVWA, the further measures will be considered. This includes a possible suspension or withdrawal of approval. There must be substantial violations. I believe that last year I gave an overview of how action was taken at slaughterhouses. You have also seen that slaughterhouses have been closed. Then you must really have a strong case where it has been the case several times that warnings or interventions have not been listened to. Otherwise, the judge will be able to reverse it. The said slaughterhouse is not the subject of closure. Moreover, the slaughterhouse itself has indicated that this is not acceptable either. I think it's really strong that they said that. They have themselves taken all kinds of measures to eliminate what has happened as much as possible. That's good to report, too. We can find a lot of it if it doesn't go well, and we think it does. At the same time, I think it is right to recognise this and take action on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u178	I am certainly grateful that they are taking action, but I have experienced a few times that I got images through whistleblowers, so through people in the slaughterhouses themselves that they were playing soccer with chickens and the like. I approached the slaughterhouse through Jan Odink. Unfortunately, the best man is no longer there, but he even took action on behalf of a product company. People just got fired. Surely it can't be that now NVWA veterinary surgeons aren't getting fired? That's impossible. They're just in the picture, you know. They're just recognized by their colleagues. As far as the veterinary disciplinary board is concerned, I'm sure that's the way it's gonna have to be. But they just need to be fired by this minister. Or at least this Minister must ensure that the inspector-general is told: they will be out tomorrow. They really shouldn't be here anymore. The Minister can arrange that. Criminal law is indeed a matter for the courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u179	I also think it is a good use that personnel policy is not with me, but really with the IG. I also think that we should keep the proportions that way. The IG indicated that they immediately looked at what happened. We're having conversations with that employee. I believe that it is up to the person responsible to weigh up what is then a sanctionation that fits in with it. I do not think it is my job to say now: it must be dismissed immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u180	I took care of those chicken scoundrels myself. The director said to the chief of staff, "Find out who these guys are." They were ripped out in one go. That's the spirit. This minister can just say to the inspector general: make sure those guys who have participated in kicking and hitting go out acutely. The Minister can do that. That is what we are asking for. I am sure that a majority of my fellow Members will support me in that. You can't have a vet hitting and kicking with you, can you? This Minister can certainly do something about that. In fact, if I were a minister, I'd kick them out myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u181	I understand that Mr Graus himself would do something about that, but I think that we should keep this division of responsibility this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u182	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u183	Then I come to Mr Graus's question on the five points of animal protection. They have indeed sent a letter asking them to do something about a number of things. I have read the letter myself and I think that we should involve it in the process we are going on. It's about the production speed camera surveillance. These are things that I wrote about myself in my letter from a week ago. I've been asking about the mandatory stop button right in front of the boiler. In all Dutch pig slaughterhouses there is currently a stop button at the boiler. The question is, of course, when are you going to use it and when are you not going to use it? That's exactly the conversation I'm going to have with the abattoirs. Why are people admitted without training? European rules allow the use of slaughterhouse staff who do not yet have a certificate if they are registered on the waiting list for this training. In that case, they must work in the presence and under the direct supervision of a person who does have a certificate. There is also a language training for foreign veterinarians. They are taken with them in order to learn to speak and understand the language sufficiently. Encouraging an animal-oriented design of slaughterhouses is one of the things we are looking at in the context of the fundamental discussion we are having. Then there is Mr Geurts' question about how I look at MPs reporting against NVWA employees. He's asking if that could also be crippling. In general, I would like to say that in my conversations I have also experienced that public discussions about the functioning of the NVWA veterinary surgeons really affect them themselves. They always feel like they're back in the dock and never doing it right. Sometimes they also have a sense of powerlessness: when is it okay or not? This is also because they cannot defend themselves publicly. I think that is an important responsibility for us. I really want to see the careful distribution in that. Who's gonna talk about personnel policy and how do you handle it? I don't think we should go into this as politics. This is really a case the NVWA has to take care of. They do. As I said, most employees do good work in difficult circumstances. I think that if there are difficulties and problems, we need to solve that at NVWA. Everyone is free to report it or whatever, but I would really leave a division with the NVWA where it belongs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u184	Two points. One. In the event of animal abuse, any citizen may report it. I hope I can do 3,000 more. The second point. We have done it partly because the disciplinary law applies to the NVWA veterinary surgeons as well. I've had a few experts look into that, so there's no way they're getting out of it. This minister can make sure that the names become known to the veterinary disciplinary board so that they can deal with them. That's one of the reasons. We've asked the detectives to find out who they are, because they also need to come before the veterinary disciplinary board. We can't use images to figure out personalities. The Minister and the NVWA can do that. They have to come before the veterinary disciplinary board. I know they often feel very safe, but also the NVWA veterinary surgeons are subject to disciplinary law. They're not getting out of this, absolutely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u185	On the footage we've seen things that don't add up, but images can also show something that has a story attached to it. Again, I'm not talking right about what happened. I think you should really weigh that kind of thing. I can't weigh that from my office in the Ministry. You can't weigh that when you're back in your room. That's really something the NVWA needs to have the conversation about. The NVWA has the power to raise cases and impose sanctions if an employee does not do what he is asked to do. I think that responsibility lies with the NVWA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u186	I believe that this debate cannot remain without political reflection. We have known for a very long time that there are people within the NVWA who do not maintain and that people who do want to maintain are opposed by their team leader. That is all at the expense of those who want to maintain. Politics has let that happen. It has been noted by whistleblowers that a NVWA member in particular at the northern slaughterhouses has always said: everything is going well here, everything is going well here and everything is going well here and it did not take so close. Then came a pilot with other NVWA's, who noticed numerous violations. Then that slaughterhouse director sent us and the minister a letter saying: I want my own NVWA'er back, because it is never difficult. If politics has allowed that to happen, of course there is a public debate about the non-intervention of NVWA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u187	Your point is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u188	So that reflection, that politics let it happen, is part of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u189	After the 2Solve-research I also made it clear that it is not possible for any reason not to act on it and then not to act on it by the management either. We have clear rules about what can and can't be done. If it's dealt with differently, we have a problem. Then we need to organise more uniform monitoring. The question of how to ensure that it also gets more into the organisation is also relevant. There's a lot of layers in the discussion. It's not just about having time for a conversation, that was one point, but also about assessing a situation by a manager. I ordered the NVWA to really have those discussions there. They do. They watch what's going on there, how to deal with it, and what dilemmas sometimes occur. That's what I was talking about with the employees. I really do not think it is up to us to say: the employee is good and the employee is not good. That's really an internal matter of the NVWA. I appeal to the IG to take real action. He does. I do not think that we should have this discussion here by name.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u190	Finalizing, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u191	It may be the Minister's choice, but we have known this for years and whistleblowers have been constantly trying to make it clear here in the Lower House and in the Ministry that there are just people who look the other way and do not maintain it. Yet there has been no intervention. That, of course, leads to great public debate. That affects people within the NVWA who want to maintain. So I think you should name it here: we knew it for a long time, but now there is intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u192	As soon as the 2Solve research, which made this very insightful, came out, I acted. We can involve all the discussions before that, but I think it is important that we are really working on this and take action on it. Mr Geurts asked why a number of slaughterhouses did not participate in the voluntary surveillance. I do not feel entirely free to go into the motives of all individual slaughterhouses, but I have the impression that they do not consider it important enough. Once again, I cannot give the reason for every slaughterhouse and mention it by name, but the fact that they may not find it interesting enough is not a reason for me not to. In fact, I said: you have until April 1st to accept it, then you will just have a permanent supervisor, with all the costs involved. Mrs Ouwehand has presented a ten-point plan for the black book. Thank you for that. There are a lot of points in it that she would like to give to me, including for reflection. That's the way I see it. I note that we are already working on a number of things. And I can imagine that we will have the discussion about a number of things whether or not we are going to do them. However, I thank her for that. I would like to propose that this plan be included in the reflection on the system and the slaughter. Mrs Bromet asks whether the scale of slaughterhouses is a recipe for misery, in other words: is a larger slaughterhouse also a bigger problem? No, that doesn't necessarily depend on the scale of the slaughterhouse. Both large and small slaughterhouses are well performing and less performing, so there is no one-on-one correlation between them. Mr De Groot says that we need to look closely at the priorities of the NVWA in general. As an example, he mentioned that there is no maintenance at slaughterhouses, while controls are carried out at food banks. The NVWA has a broader palette of tasks and within the domains choices are always made on which to use or not to use. They have to do with reports coming in. Some things the NVWA doesn't know, so it's hard to spot that on the spot. On reports about other things, the NVWA does act. That is the set of priorities. It is not a matter of giving more priority to it than to the other, it is a matter of really acting on notifications that come in and on risks that one sees. Mr Futselaar asked whether you could also look at the infringements that have been observed and what are the options that are still there. In this way I have interpreted Mr Futselaar's question. We have already mentioned the speed of the tyre. The reduction of the tyre speed could indeed be an intervention measure. At the time when a slaughterhouse is repeatedly identified with many infringements, this could be one of the options that could be used to sanction it. Then you have to look carefully if that is related to the speed of the band; it is nice to have a correlation at this point. This reduction can be temporary, for example in response to an incident, but also in order to prevent it, so that it is actually felt there. This is one of the aspects that I look at in the reflection I am doing on this point. Mrs Lodders asks how it is possible, especially in the medium-sized and large slaughterhouses, that inspectors are constantly present, but that they do not appear in these cases. We are permanently present in the large slaughterhouses; we are not permanently present in the small and medium-sized slaughterhouses. That's where they act the moment you find a violation. You're not around all the time. There are, of course, several places in such a process where there is not an inspector all the time. Very often he is present in one place and sees what is happening there. For example, if animals are introduced for slaughter at that time, the inspector will not see what is happening there. That is why we are now looking at camera surveillance, so that you have more opportunities to see things there. Mrs Lodders herself has also made a suggestion for the better organisation of the eyes, so to speak. Mrs Lodders also calls for a more planned approach. She's asking for that to come before the summer. Can I include this in the whole of the proposals we are making? This is then a specific part in it. I explicitly take this point into account in the consideration of the system and in the improvement of supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u193	If the Minister means to involve that in the plans sent to the Chamber and the Council of Advisors in February, I am fine with that. But if that advice really comes later, I would like to have the planned approach separately. I think we are talking about something. In the coalition agreement, we agreed on more efficient and effective supervision. We have also linked animal welfare and food safety, but also the agro-food sector. So I really think it's essential. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister to give a more specific answer to my question, because we have seen the images. They spoke for themselves. That's where we saw inspectors who didn't act. The Minister says that inspectors cannot be everywhere and that we may need to organise more eyes. Of course, we can organize much more eyes, but if we do not act, we will not get much further. We have higher fines, but if they are not imposed, they will not help us very much. That's the point I wanted to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u194	That is a different question than the question behind Mrs Lodder's proposal. It asks whether this can be done in February, but it cannot be done in February. I think the reports will be sent to the Chamber at the end of February or the first week of March. They really don't see it on this proposal. This is really a different proposal, which I want to involve in the fundamental discussion we will have about the system and the slaughter process. That will come later, because for that I really need to talk to a number of parties. We will also have to consider the practical consequences of Mrs Lodder's proposal, for example on staffing. There will also have to be choices. That is also a consideration that plays a part. Then there's the question of whether inspectors are performing, yes or no. In the end, of course, it is up to the inspectors themselves to make that choice. Now we've seen footage where that didn't go well. That's what I'm judging, and that's what the NVWA's judging. But without trivializing it, I still want to outline what I did at the beginning: the pressure for the employees is sometimes really standard. You shouldn't underestimate that either. The moment you see a number of things and have to press the button three times to stop because something goes wrong, there is also an atmosphere in which that is not always nice. As an employee, you have to be strong enough to be able to do all that. Again, I don't speak well with that, but it is the reality that employees have to deal with. We must not close our eyes to that either. The inspector must do his job: once. But I also think that we can appeal to the parties involved in that system and say: listen, the primary responsibility for a proper process lies with the person who has the slaughterhouse or with the person who is doing that work. You can't blame a NVWA inspector for that. It happens when things don't go well. If we see that that is not going well, we must also pay attention to that. But let us not forget that the responsibility lies a little wider than that NVWA inspector alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u195	Mrs. Lodders, this was a reaction to you. Let me say, as a neutral outsider, that the debate on whether or not to intervene has already taken place. So I hear a certain repetition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u196	Once upon a time, Mr President, my speech was very specific. The Minister and I really are 100%, perhaps 300%, agree that the final responsibility lies with the slaughterhouse itself. But when there are abuses there and they do not accept their responsibility, then the inspector is the move. There are sufficient possibilities for an NVWA inspector, or for the private supervision we also know in the slaughterhouses, to intervene. For that we have really introduced very firm measures into the law. I understand that someone feels intimidated, but then it's a matter of making a phone call to Utrecht and saying: I don't feel safe here, I need help to intervene. The way I see it, too little happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u197	Then we are back from The Hague to think why things happen or not. I think that's a conversation that should take place at NVWA. There are really several reasons. Can you see it at any time? Do you feel the freedom to do things? We know that there have sometimes been situations where, unfortunately, inspectors did not get off at all well. We have to name these things here, too. The main responsibility lies with the slaughterhouse and with those who work there. The inspector has to do his job. All right, all right. If that is not the case, then there must be a discussion with the supervisor. But first of all, let's really put the responsibility where it belongs, and that's not with the inspector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u198	I hope that all Members of Parliament have listened carefully to what the Minister has just said. For the first time, she admitted what I have been saying for thirteen years, namely that the NVWA veterinarians are greatly intimidated and therefore do not dare to press the button. As the Minister said, you must be strong in your shoes. There are all executioners of guys next to you. They just put a vet in the hospital the other day. That's why I'm telling you to bring in an animal policeman or woman. The Minister is simply saying what I have been saying for 13 years: they are intimidated and they are afraid. That's where the problem is. And the vets that do maintain are being dealt with by the management of the NVWA. The 2Solve report showed that management does not intervene at all. If this minister leaves it with the management of the NVWA, while the report shows that they do not intervene... No, what are they doing? They're targeting people who do maintain them, and they can't talk to politics anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u199	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u200	No, but this is a shameful thing, Mr. Chairman. This is the heart of the matter. All enforcement veterinarians are kept small by the management of the NVWA. That's outrageous. And the minister just admits that the others are afraid. And it is right that these people are afraid. But then do something with it and put a policeman or woman next to it. It'll be over soon. It's just not normal for this to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u201	I welcome the fact that Mr Graus really stands up for those who do not feel entirely free to do their job. I really appreciate that in him. He does that with a lot of passion and passion. But I would really like to say to Mr Graus that I am having this conversation with NVWA. I am talking to them about how we can ensure that those people can do their jobs, that they feel the freedom to do their jobs. I'd almost like to say that I think it's a capitulation if we had to put cops on the sidelines. We shouldn't want each other to think that someone can only do their job if there's a cop standing next to it. Well, then you'd have to go into the system and see what else to do, wouldn't you? Then you have to talk to those slaughterhouses and say: this is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u202	Mr. Graus, concluding at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u203	We live in a time of exorcism. When I started here, there were boas up here. Now there are general investigators. Outside is the Defense Department. In Brussels there are commandos with machine guns. We live in a time of staggering and we can't do it with just vets anymore. Believe me, if I'm ever gone, you'll remember me a lot. I've been asking for it for 13 years. Why is security being increased here? Why do vets in the Land of Ever Live? The staggering is increasing. We're bringing in people who are more aggressive and who don't know the word "animal welfare." That's what our vets all have to do with. I have one question. There are three investigations going on. There's gonna be three reports. I do not want any reorganisation measures to be taken until everything is ready. I hope the Chamber will support me in that. We also need to keep our hands off the animal welfare teams. They're working well. Why do they need to be reorganised quickly between the soup and the potatoes? I know why. Because it's not a good time for the leadership of the NVWA. That's where the people who figure it all out are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u204	All right, Mr. Graus. You made that point in your first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u205	No, I want that commitment. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to file a motion. So I would like the commitment: no reorganisation until the reports are finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u206	The Minister is going to talk about the NVWA and the organisation, so he is going to talk about the issue of these teams. We are talking about slaughterhouses and whether or not enforcement takes place with the police. That is what the Minister is going to say in conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u207	I think I just gave my answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u208	I would like to highlight a point made by Mr Graus. I agree with his proposal on the animal police, but he suggested that we bring in people who are more aggressive. People working in slaughterhouses are very often vulnerable people at the bottom of society. It's not a question of bringing people in who are more aggressive, but that work might be aggressive. I would very much like Mr Graus to take that away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u209	No. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u210	Mr President, I was addressed. I'm just saying people are being brought in from countries where they don't know the word "animal welfare," where they just paint stray dogs alive and I know what. Those people work here. They do not have the values and standards we have. Our vets have something to do with that, too. With all due respect, Mrs Ouwehand, but I've been to Bulgaria and I've seen the first session of animal policemen there. I've been to Romania, too. It's pathetic what's going on in there. Those people are gonna end up here. They have absolutely no values and standards with animals. Zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u211	We're not going to discuss this any further. You can do that on your own terms. We are in the process of answering the first-term questions. The Minister continues her speech and continues with the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u212	Right, Mr. Chairman. That's where I'd come. That's about how you organize the NVWA. Actually, Mrs Bromet had a very nice question. She asked how you would dream about the NVWA if there were no limitations in resources, opportunities, whatever. What would that organization look like? Then I would really start with an organisation in which employees from their professionalism have plenty of space to do their job well. I would then go along with the ideas and proposals they have to make the work better. That doesn't mean we can't. That's the philosophy from which I'm trying to work. That is what we are working on right now, for example around ICT; I mentioned that. We first had a big proposal on how to use ICT throughout the organisation. That took an incredibly long time. That was gonna be expensive. It was getting more and more complex. Now that we've gone off that very big design, we're looking at what steps can be taken from below. Inspectors come up with very practical proposals on how a number of things can be improved. In the conversation with the IG, I say that we should try to give space, so that we can see how we can use the proposals that really have potential. For example, it's about digital sampling or, recently, how you can easily handle INR control with an app. These are all concrete proposals that are now being made. As far as I am concerned, there will really be more room for such initiatives to come from the bottom up, so that it is also workable and manageable for that employee. I also hope that there will be an NVWA that is confident and says: "This is what we stand for. This is the public task we have. These are the things we can deliver. Sometimes there are also the difficult issues here. Politics, speak out about this too." I think that role-sharing should be in it. But there must also be room and respect for the different points of view and for the knowledge and experience that can also be in it, because they are discussions that you sometimes literally conduct in the workplace with each other. I would therefore like to have a NVWA in which the tasks are balanced with the resources. The investigation that is currently under way is almost complete. You'll soon be able to learn about that. I would also like an NVWA where there is peace in the organization. Because of all the changes I understand that people there sometimes think: where are we going now? That's also the balance we have. On the one hand, you want to bring peace to the organization. Sometimes you just have to do a few things to make it work more effectively. Where's the balance there? I would also like to have a NVWA that will deal with the discussion with society. What else do we find acceptable with each other and what not? We are, of course, having this discussion here, but as far as I am concerned, it would also be a dialogue which the NVWA conducts with the stakeholders that it itself has to deal with. I hope you will see some of those elements in the documents I am about to send to your Chamber, but I think it is a good question. I hope that next time Mrs Bromet will tell me her dream about how she sees the NVWA. Then I come to Mr Graus' specific question about the animal welfare teams. I've previously pledged to your Chamber that there are animal welfare teams in the NVWA. We also discussed it during the AO Animal Welfare of 3 July 2019. At that time, I also said that we are considering an effective design of the animal welfare teams at NVWA. I can tell you that I have also done so in the letter I sent to you, namely that the intention is to concentrate animal welfare work in five teams, which are only working on animal welfare and animal health, and each of them has two veterinarians on their team. This ensures the supervision of the risk companies and can also guide management on the enforcement culture that is needed. One of the three new teams will monitor the animal welfare of pet animals, including the dog trade. That is also in response to explicit questions from your Chamber in order to pay more attention to them. An earlier question from your Chamber was how the animal welfare teams could be used for other purposes as well. They are now being used for animal welfare and animal health. This will address the fragmentation of animal welfare capacity. This also helps to promote the uniformity of supervision and the promotion of a good enforcement culture. I think we have just tried to connect with the wishes of your Chamber and have tried to ensure the knowledge and skills of the teams.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u213	I really hope that the Minister is not going to do this until everything is ready, because those teams are working well. They're gonna take everything apart. It weakens those teams. It's divided and conquer what happens. Believe me, it is. The Minister is not well aware of what is happening in the workplace. I would therefore ask the Minister to stop, not to do so, and I hope that the Chamber will support me in this until everything is clear and ready and until the investigations are completed, because this is not right. The teams are cut up and pulled apart. They're gonna have to deal with INR. That's really true. They are not going to deal with animal health and animal welfare at all. The dog inspectors are also totally not happy with it; no one is happy with it. Why? The debate is not about those two teams that work so well. These people deserve a statue here in the State Passage. But those teams are getting cut up. What's the point of that one?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u214	You've made that point a lot tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u215	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u216	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u217	Mr President, what I am saying is that we have tried to listen as closely as possible to what the Chamber has indicated that it considers important in order to ensure that this is done properly. The choices that are being made in this area, I really believe, can be defended on the basis of what the Chamber says. I think it is up to the organisation or the management of the NVWA itself to make final choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u218	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u219	Mr Graus says that the number of people at NVWA must also increase, in quality and quantity. There will be another report on the task and resources. On that basis, I think we can continue the discussion on this issue. Mr Geurts asked me to see how the inspectors could be better supervised, including in the context of rethinking, and whether there are sufficient tools to make these people work better. The rethink is linked to the question of how inspectors can be supported. The craftsmanship of these inspectors is central to this. I have heard Mr Geurts' appeal very well. How the NVWA deals with the ICT issue is part of the rethink. I have just made a point about what this approach is like, a lot more from the bottom up, so that there is real support for the inspectors themselves to deal with it. This also fits better with their creativity and with the ideas that exist. Mr De Groot asked how we would ensure that the NVWA provides a safe working environment. Of course, they work on that every day. That's something you can't do at the push of a button. It needs constant attention to ensure that safety is there. If it is really unsafe, more eyes must be involved. We need to ensure proper care after incidents. In the case of aggression and violence, standard reports are made by the NVWA. There are confidants and integrity coordinators, because I really agree with Mr De Groot that inspectors should always be able to do their job in safety. There really must be no doubt about that, and where there is doubt, we must do everything we can to take that road. A specific question from Mr De Groot was about the fat farmers, following the 2Solve report. The arrangements in the 2Solve report relate to all animals presented to the slaughterhouse. That's about the fat mowers. Animals from dairy farming may enter the fat pasture before the animals go to slaughter, but they are, as is the case with animals from other chains, subject to animal welfare and food safety. That must be the starting point and not whether or not they are fat farmers. That must be taken into account. That's the norm.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u220	Then why is it that a member of the animal welfare team is not allowed to join the mobile slaughter unit?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u221	That's a very specific question. It suggests that Mr De Groot believes that there is a reason for this. I'm just trying to hear the question behind the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u222	That is not the case. I have already asked the Minister whether she has the fat farmers in mind as a special risk group. The answer was no at the time. After that, I waited a few months and now I ask the question again. But I have to say that very little has actually happened. At least it's not known to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u223	I say in general that there should be a look... I'll get back to the questions about the mobile killing unit. Whether an animal is ill or not should be slaughtered or not brought to the slaughter process I think that is always a bit of a bad word, but let's just say that it depends on the welfare of the animal and on food safety. It is not that we exclude a particular category from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u224	I am sorry for the Minister, but the information I have is that a new category was opened at NVWA in January. I said the same in my contribution. Sick animals may also be applied to the mobile killing unit. In addition, I have the information that animal welfare inspectors are not welcome and should not go with this MDU. That is quite relevant, because if a sick or non-transportable animal is offered a few times, I would be curious and think: I would like to take a look in that stable. That extra category is about sick animals. In one year, 1,800 animals have been offered to that mobile slaughter unit. It can't be true that all these animals are perfectly healthy with just a broken leg. Then what's going on in there? Then all the alarm bells have to go off, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u225	I have just explicitly asked the NVWA: was a new category introduced in January? The answer is no, it's not. So now it's going to be a bit of my word against Mr De Groot's. I just explicitly asked you to do this. My answer is 'no', and I hope Mr De Groot will trust that my answer is true. If it isn't, we're having another discussion. So there was no change in January at any point around that MDU. We said we're doing an evaluation. He'll be coming to your room very soon. In it we can see exactly what happened to those animals. However, I believe that the suggestion that this mobile killing unit should be used mainly for sick animals, for non-transportable animals or for animals that should not otherwise be slaughtered is rather anticipating the outcome of the evaluation; let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u226	If the Minister says so, then of course I will take it for granted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u227	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u228	Actually, I have a point of order. This is the point we have talked about before. This is a pilot. I believe that this pilot is almost doomed to failure by all the images that are created in this respect. I therefore ask the Minister to come up with this evaluation quickly. She promised earlier, and I hear her say that again. If the results of this evaluation are there, we will discuss this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u229	That's what I just said myself. Mr Futselaar also called for more attention to be paid to the implementation in the organisation of the NVWA. And he asked: shouldn't the organization become flatter? I would also like to say that if we have the reports here in March, let us have a more fundamental discussion, particularly in the context of this rethink. What's the organization like? I think that is why we are doing justice to this discussion. Mrs Lodder asks what I'm going to do to bring the organization into a calmer sailing water. I've just said a few things about that. And I recognize with Mrs Lodder that the NVWA has a history of mergers, reorganisations and cuts. The process that started in 2012 to improve this has had a mixed success. We have also had the necessary discussions on this in recent times. I also think it would be a good idea to look at what views the Council has on the process of rethinking. I'll send that to the Chamber, too, so you can take note of it yourself. Mr. Chairman. That's what I wanted to say about the NVWA as an organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u230	Mr Graus would like to comment on this point before we move on to the issue of food safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u231	I'd like to back up my colleague, Mr. De Groot. A category has been added, namely category 8. That is what has been done, and it has been done recently. Besides, I know what he's saying, so I told them not to. That's what's gonna happen to me. I say to Mrs Lodder: that MDU was even my idea once, so I will be the last to take it down. But what's happening to it now isn't right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u232	I think we are going to have this discussion a little bit more in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u233	The Minister continued her speech with the block on food safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u234	Yes. Mr Van Otterloo is concerned that many employees are 55-pluser. I think Mr Van Otterloo may have some pride in that, given his party. I think he shows that 55-plussers are also very vital people; let me put it this way. But he also states that it is important for vulnerable people that the quality, food safety, is really in order, because those people are really more vulnerable. I fully endorse that. Food safety is therefore very important. It must be well guarded, especially in the interests of the risk groups appointed by Mr Van Otterloo. That's also something we're paying close attention to with the NVWA. Every year we look at the State of Food Safety, in which we also draw conclusions about the size of food safety. The final conclusion is that the food in the Netherlands is generally safe, that this has to do with the law, with its compliance and the supervision of NVWA on the links of the food chains, but that we always have to stay alert to new risks. A question from Mr De Groot was also about this. This is also something that Mr Bruins is paying particular attention to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u235	That sounds like "it's generally very safe; that's fine," but in 2008 the Vanthemsche Committee referred to "insufficient supervision and enforcement of the small and medium-sized slaughterhouses." Well, there's a whole line of them. In 2014, the OVV, the Safety Research Council, then writes: "Safety meat is not guaranteed." The council writes: "In order to improve the safety of meat, it is important that companies and the government feel more responsible for the shared goal: safe meat for consumers." That's just a very small selection from the research that goes into this. How can you say that meat is generally safe? Thank God there are no accidents, but the claim that it is all safe, I dare not take over, with these investigations in hand and in the knowledge that nothing has changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u236	We bring out the State of Food Safety every time. I reiterated the conclusion that was set out in it. Mr De Groot talks about other insights, but these are also reports from earlier. Half of the capacity at the NVWA is devoted to food safety, just to be able to have that guarantee there. Doesn't anything ever go wrong? No, I'm not saying that. I say that we must always learn from that and look at the risks. That's the way they're working on it. We're really checking that out. At the moment when there are things that are not good, we need to act on them. But I would advise you to have this debate with Mr Bruins as well. He is on top of that in general, because that is also a very important point for him. But we have the State of Food Safety. Why don't you have that discussion over there? We still have the law enforcement cases. That's the new block, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u237	That's the fourth block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u238	More generally, a number of Members have asked whether we are sufficient to see whether new laws or rules can be enforced. Mr Moorlag asked for it. Other members also asked: what about the transport track, for example? We always ask the NVWA for a so-called HUF test. That's the enforcement, feasibility and fraud-proofing test. The NVWA itself must state whether it can work with those rules. That is very important for us to know, because we need to involve it in decision-making. We also always make that HUF test known to you at the time of a rule or a law, so that you can learn about it yourself. That is what we are involved in the decision-making process. This is also the case with the specific question of nitrogen measures and the transport track. The NVWA must also issue a HUF test on this subject. She will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u239	Actually, the cabinet has already said that the transport trail is going to be followed. This is also a substantial measure in the nitrogen dossier, at least that is what the cabinet thinks. If one of these tests shows that it's not enforceable, can that feed track still be abandoned?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u240	The law passed by both chambers states that such a railroad can be built. We're working on the details now. The Chamber itself asked us to share with her how we intend to do that. So you can take note of that yourself. We are still working on this concretely, precisely on the HUF elements. Let me just say: there are several roads that lead to Rome. It's not like you could use one measure to do that. There are several options. That is what we are looking at, including the aspects of enforcement and feasibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u241	The minister says there are several roads that lead to Rome. Does the Minister then assume that there is always a way to ensure that enforcement is ensured?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u242	We're working hard on that. The measures we want to take will also be submitted to the NVWA to take that test.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u243	I wonder how uninhibited and unbiased the NVWA can do such a test, because there is so much political heat on that file. It is actually the straw that many cling to in the nitrogen approach. At the slaughterhouses there is a lot of pressure to move with in the system. Aren't you running the same risk there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u244	My experience is that the NVWA really indicates whether or not she can do something. And it has to be, because in the end she needs to be able to assess whether it is workable for her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u245	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u246	Yes. Then there is a specific question from Mr Geurts on the reports. How did they get in? Let me just say it. General reports and questions come in to the NVWA customer contact centre, but reports from, for example, inspection services, the police and veterinarians come in on a separate number. They'll be arrested immediately, too. If that is unclear: they do not go through the customer contact centre. I mentioned the enforcement cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u247	Yes, varia.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u248	Let's see. I also mentioned fraud. I had a few questions about that, too. I'm almost through, Mr. Chairman. Why is the fight against fraud not a public interest for the NVWA, Mr Geurts asks. In each of the public interests, the fight against fraud is one of the instruments to safeguard these interests. You have a public interest and if there is fraud, it has to be combated, because there is a framework to ensure that the public interest is there. These public interests are, for example, animal welfare and food safety in NVWA. The capacity required for this is the subject of a discussion which we are looking at in the context of a task-based research. I'll tell you about that very soon. Can the plant inspection services also be empowered to deal with fraud? The plant inspection services can now report fraud to the NVWA. The NVWA can then impose the administrative fines and possibly apply criminal law. We are now also examining the possibilities for the inspection services to be a competent authority in the event of non-compliance with import and intra-EU traffic and fraud. We haven't settled that yet, but I'm looking at that specifically. Mr Geurts also specifically asked about the use of food fraud and cooperation with abroad. Fraud is not just something we look at nationally. On the contrary, it is also a focus at European level. To this end, there is an exchange of signals of fraud and irregularities between the authorities. Whether a criminal investigation is initiated following fraud signals, the NVWA-IOD determines together with the Public Prosecutor's Functional Parket. In doing so, priority will be given to cases where there are major risks to food safety and public health. Of course, they are given priority. We have also included this in the annual plan for 2020 NVWA. I come to two other questions, Mr President. Mr De Groot mentioned the point of chain assurance. He's asking why that doesn't work out. What's taking so long? We have just set up the private quality assurance project, led by Mr Krouwel. That is precisely what is intended to strengthen self-regulation. This is also the result of Mrs Sorgdrager's report on the whole fipronil issue. We have, of course, also established the Food Confidence Task Force for this. They're working on it. It is really up to the business community itself to come forward if they want to do that chain guarantee. They must, of course, ensure that they meet the criteria for inclusion. But as I said, this is a specific focus on the private quality assurance project. Finally, a question from Mr Moorlag on the monitoring of inshore fishing. Do I want to intensify that? The current European regulations do not provide sufficient guarantees that fishing is not carried out with too much engine power in practice. That is why, at European level, I would also like to focus on the strengthening of these rules. Monitoring of the engine power used could also be much more efficient and frequent. We are also trying to make greater use of the technical possibilities that exist. It is quite difficult to see what kind of engine power is used everywhere as NVWA, also because you have to be able to detect it in the act. You can't be everywhere at once. That is why we are really looking at the more technical means, so that we can get a better view of them. So that's really being worked on. Mr President, those were the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u249	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the government's first term. I suggest we proceed immediately with the second term. Mr Moorlag has the floor again on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u250	Thank you to the Minister for her reply, Mr President. I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to reduce the pace of slaughter lines in slaughterhouses in order to reduce the risk of abuses and increase animal welfare levels,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-139]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u251	Then there's the inshore fishing. I do get compelling signals that things are not going well there, not with the engine power and not with the data recording either. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Minister to step up the monitoring and enforcement of engine power and data recording in coastal fishing in order to maintain national and European rules,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-140]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u252	Then a slightly longer motion. That's a little against my will, but I really hope to capture a nuance in it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas substantial improvements in the supervision and enforcement of NVWA are necessary to ensure public interests, including food safety and animal welfare;]] [[Whereas improving supervisory and enforcement pressure is necessary to protect entrepreneurs who operate in good faith and respect laws and rules correctly from the competitive disadvantage they suffer from entrepreneurs who derive undue advantage from non-compliance with laws and rules;]] [[Whereas civil society organisations and the judicial chain also highlight shortcomings and call for urgent improvement of the monitoring and enforcement system;]] [[Whereas, in addition to the actions already undertaken by the Minister at the level of measure and organisation, it is therefore desirable to have a more fundamental examination of how to further improve monitoring and enforcement at system level in the field of NVWA;]] [[calls on the Minister to set up a committee of experts, independent, authoritative people who can benefit from support in business circles, civil society organisations and the judicial chain in order to present this picture;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u253	There should have been no mention of that, Mr President, because I would have gone over my speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u254	That's right. The next speaker is Mr Graus, on behalf of the Freedom Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to re-establish the senior management of the NVWA, in particular the board of directors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to maintain the two current well-functioning NVWA animal welfare teams (which are working together with the Justice Department against the failing livestock and meat inspection teams),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, in addition to a prison sentence, all those involved in animal abuse in slaughterhouses are given a life-long ban on the keeping of animals, as well as a professional ban,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that "recurrent" slaughterhouses, i.e. repeated animal welfare abuses, can be closed immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-142]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-143]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-144]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-145]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u256	This is the last one, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to close Westfort slaughterhouse in IJsselstein immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-146]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u257	I really want to know something about Mr Graus. This slaughterhouse is always marked by the NVWA as a slaughterhouse that complies 100% with the rules. We now know something about this because someone has volunteered for two weeks and made footage. We can conclude with reasonable certainty that it is the same in other slaughterhouses. I am therefore in favour of closing this slaughterhouse, but should other slaughterhouses close?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u258	We were able to file a complaint against this because we have evidence. That's just the way it is. We two, Mrs Ouwehand and I, have often said, when it was in Belgium, that it could happen here with us. All the ministers' predecessors said that this does not happen to us, but it does. If it turns out so, you'll always find us by your side. We also do it to exert pressure. We filed a report, and the CID also filed our report. There's going to be an investigation. This little mouse is gonna get another tail, believe me. If you see what's going on over there... I've spoken to people who know more about it. They say it's happened there before. That's why we want that slaughterhouse closed down. The Minister is aware of this. The NVWA is aware of this; it cannot accept what we have seen there. There's no talking about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u259	Finalizing, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u260	I agree with Mr Graus. And it's legally difficult to close other slaughterhouses if you don't have proof...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u261	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u262	... but we do know that supervision is not in order. Then you might conclude there was the PVV earlier against.................................................................................................................................................................................................. That's the proposal I'm about to make. Do you support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u263	We have always said that I have done so on several occasions this evening, even during the inter-ruption debates, that we want the animal welfare teams to be completely separated from LNV and the NVWA's incestuous circle, so that there is no more inter-linking. We want these teams to be assigned to the Justice Department, to be covered by the animal police. Trust me, it'll be over soon. I still have to talk to my colleague Lilian Helder about this, because that lies with another committee, but I am going to update my colleague Lilian Helder on this. I think she is very much in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u264	I was just thinking about Mr Graus' first motion. If I have heard him correctly, he said that the top of the NVWA must be repaired.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u265	Especially the board of directors; that's what I put in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u266	Well, then, the board of directors. According to Van Dale, "cleaning" means getting healthy. That means that the top or management board of the NVWA would be unhealthy. I think that's a pretty serious accusation. Could Mr Graus also provide proof of this? Mr. Graus was just talking about assholes and things like that. If you let this work on you, you'll find it's a very heavy motion, about an execution organization that the minister is responsible for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u267	But what you don't know, Mr. Geurts, is that I grew up with the former AID, the General Inspection Service. I'm up to the capillaries, but the senior management doesn't notice that. They take all kinds of people they suspect of contacting me. Those people are getting caught. But no matter how they shut people up, there's still a way. I've been sitting here for 13 years, Mr. Geurts, and after 13 years, I'm tired of talking about Aid or non-functioning NVWA over and over again, several times a year. It's really up to here. Moreover, it is also the case in business, and it is also the case in politics: when a group chairman kills a party, it often has to quit. That's everywhere. In the banking sector, we have seen the same thing. And this should just go through the brush. I give them a good life and that they can do anything, but they've had their chances and nothing happened. The North Korean regime is only getting worse. Mr. De Groot has just made some very good points here. I've invited a lot of MPs to come with me to whistleblowers. They didn't. Then they shouldn't come here and complain that they're not well informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u268	Finalizing, Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u269	Mr. Chairman. I still maintain my view that it is a very serious allegation, because in fact Mr Graus says: the whole board of directors is unhealthy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u270	No, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u271	No, Mr. Graus. Mr Geurts has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u272	Mr. Chairman. Mr Graus has to let me finish. Mr. Graus, you'll put that down with this motion. I find that a very serious accusation. If you're gonna make that accusation, you're gonna have to live up to it. Then you can't agree that you've been in the Chamber for 13 years and that you'll find something. Because saying something a hundred times doesn't mean it's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u273	For years I have been trying to find reasonable solutions. For 13 years. I can't. We're stuck on it every time. I predict we'll be standing here a few more times. I once said that if we go on like this, we have to nationalise the banks. I was laughed at, I was called a Communist. But it did happen. I've predicted everything: what's going on with phosphates now, and you name it all. I've been way ahead of my time a lot. And trust me, there's going to be an investigation into the functioning of the NVWA one day. 'Cause we're a long way from here. And then you will see that the advice is given by experts: boys, we just need to take a look and dust through the board. Let them do something else. I have nothing against these people personally, but they won't solve it, Mr. Geurts. And it costs too much money that way. It costs too many animal lifes that I stand for. Those animals haven't had a good life and are coming to an awful end. It's about millions of animals. I'm having trouble with that. I'd like to take responsibility here. I'm not in the middle of a parliamentary inquiry with a wet buttock, you are! I can guarantee you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u274	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go stand up for officials who can't defend themselves. I think that if Mr Graus comments on the behaviour of officials, he should appeal to the Minister. She is responsible for all officials. Then send the minister away!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u275	I have a reason why I don't. Point 1. I've been asking for years. I always ask the same thing. Something just needs to happen. And what strikes me is that on several dossiers, not only with NVWA; there are several state-owned companies that are not right in that respect that the Minister is not even properly informed. Mr. De Groot just found out, too. The minister doesn't even know there's a new category. The Minister often doesn't know what's going on. The Minister never prevented me from talking to whistleblowers. Never. But I do have it in black and white, I just have e-mails saying that people are forbidden to talk to politics. You just have to move those people. Get out of here, end of practice! I just know more, but I can't say everything here. Because some things can be traceable again. And that's always bothering me. That's all there is to it. At the time in the De Wit committee, I also knew a great deal about what I really couldn't do as a Member of Parliament. That's very frustrating. But I'm not gonna come up with that proposal for nothing. And believe me, if there's a parliamentary survey, they're gonna say, guys, the board of directors. You just have to replace it sometime. Let other people see that! They've had plenty of opportunities. How many times do we have to stand here!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u276	Finally, Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u277	I have sometimes expressed my doubts about the problem-solving capacity at the top of the organisation. I would like to mention, for example, the timely detection of ICT problems. It is also legitimate to name that doubt. It is also legitimate to draw attention to this issue with the Minister. But I think it simply goes too far to ask the Chamber to rule on the functioning of civil servants and to take legal action against them. So I would like to welcome those colleagues who say that we must operate purely under state law. And there's only one responsible, and that's the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u278	With all due respect, I have also said this in public many times, I know that this minister is a very religious person, just like me. I notice and just know that she is not well aware of everything. So I'm not gonna do that. I know this is the political game, but I'm not gonna do that. Those responsible must move. Not the minister who doesn't know everything. End of exercise. It's gonna come out. Then come up with a parliamentary survey. Then there'll be evidence. Then it will be investigated under oath. But I can't say more now than what I'm saying here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u279	I do not know whether I should make a point of order, Mr President, or whether I should support my fellow Members, but I think this is very far-reaching. I share the comments that have been made. If we are talking about people here, then those people must be able to defend themselves. These people can't defend themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u280	But neither are the animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u281	We are talking to the Minister here, and we are talking to the Minister about problems. We all did that in the first term. Let us use decency to ask everyone to deal with animals, but let us also treat this service with decency. I also criticise Mr Graus through the President, but we must discuss this through the Minister. I ask the President to end this discussion. That is my point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u282	There is a point of order. In my opinion, this is not a point of order. It's a difference of opinion about our state law. Political opinions may also differ on this point. You're expressing your opinion. It's okay. Mr Graus may respond to that, but it is not a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u283	You must imagine, Mr. Chairman, how many times I have stood here as a Member of Parliament to speak about Aid and NVWA. I've had it. I have tried, Mrs Lodders, also with people on the board of directors. They often don't even respond to an app or a phone call. Totally arrogant. I recognize everything myself. I'm an experienced expert. It's just messing with my head. I believe those people at the front and I see the footage. One and one is two. Can't we just add together what we see and what we hear? Those people who are intimidated within that organization, those whistleblowers, cannot defend themselves. Now they're being shut up and they're all getting cut up fast. They can't defend themselves either. Those millions of animals can't defend themselves either. That's what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u284	Easy, easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u285	Sorry. That's why I went into politics to give those animals a voice. That's more important to me than anything. End of exercise. Amen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u286	Finally, Mr President. I represent the same interests as Mr Graus. I also think I should have the discussion, but I am trying to do so with the Minister. We just had a debate on that. We're working on our second term now. I, too, come up with a proposal, but I would like to call for the discussion to be pure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u287	I'd be happy to change the word, if Mr. Geurts would support the motion. If you know a nice word, come with it. I'd be happy to get the word "cleaning" out. Maybe I should have rephrased that. But the point is really good, believe me. I'm here for the vets and the animals. And I don't give a shit about the rest of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u288	I understand the difficulty Mr Graus is in. If you get all the signals, and so you know things you can't share here in the public debate, and if you don't get any further, you're stuck. I have previously tabled a motion for a parliamentary inquiry. I stopped them because there wasn't enough support. I want to put it to the vote. I propose that we put it to the vote before we vote on Mr Graus' motion. If we can conduct a parliamentary survey, we'll find out. Then we'll follow the royal road. But if there is again no support for it, I understand that Mr Graus is tabling this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u289	I am always prepared to hold motions, often on the advice of the Minister. What the MPs forgot is that there's a report from 2Solve showing that management hasn't intervened. It was just literally in there. What's gonna happen? It's going back to management. But, guys, we're not gonna get anywhere like this, believe me! And then there's all this crap. The NVWA has been visiting all attention companies under police supervision for years. Suddenly, the police can't go to a slaughterhouse where there's serious animal abuse. Why? Well, I know why. It's all bullshit, isn't it? The NVWA I don't know how many companies a year with the police. And now it's impossible. Well, I hope the Justice Department gets involved in this. And I hope those animal welfare teams get to the Justice Department. Look how fast it happened and how many heads are gonna roll. Watch me. All I'm asking now is for other people to come to the helm and let a fresh wind blow here. I'm not saying anything, Mr. Geurts, I didn't say anything negative about those individuals in a personal sense. Nothing at all. But something must be done. I come as one of the few from business. This would not have been possible in business. If this happened there, you'd be on the street right away, you'd have to turn in your service car and you'd still have 24 hours to clear your drawers and then you'd be gone. That's the way it is in business. That's not daddy and wet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u290	You're ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u291	I want to say one more thing. The Minister said that there can be no closure because there is insufficient file-making. That is precisely the problem: there is no more file-forming. And the files people have drawn up, including those 40,000 kilos of meat, all disappear. It's all being held back. People just know that. The registration systems shall no longer be completed. None of that is visible anymore. Also abuses are suddenly no longer visible. We're all just being fooled. I can't believe you're all fooled. I'm not gonna be fooled. Remember that! There's no one playing with my feet here. A blessed evening, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u292	Thank you for your input. Mrs Ouwehand, you announce that you wish to put a motion to the vote that has already been held. I would ask you to do so by e-mail to the Registry, including your request that you vote first. Then it could find its way to the voting list next Tuesday. Mr Geurts has the floor on behalf of the Christian Democratic Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u293	It happens to me again, Mr. Chairman, that I have to finish before I start. I don't think I'm gonna get lucky today. I certainly do not intend to play with Mr Graus's feet, because when you see what kind of shoes Mr Graus is wearing, your hair will stand straight up with fear, but that aside. The Minister is now looking at Mr Graus' shoes. Sorry to distract you, Minister. Thank you for the answer, I say to the Minister. This certainly won't be the last time we're talking about the NVWA here. Especially since the rethink is under consideration and is going to come to the Chamber. I also see that a lot of things are in progress; the Minister has listed quite a list of them this evening. Even more hunting in the NVWA is going to work counterproductively, according to my estimate. Mr. Chairman. The responsibility for the work that is being carried out lies, in fact, with the person carrying out the act, and that is business. With this, I would like to make an explicit plea to the business community. It is right that the Minister should say so. The companies themselves are primarily responsible. I say to the abattoirs: take a serious look at the staff in the lobby. Why wouldn't it be possible for these employees to rotate in the slaughter process? Through the Minister, I am addressing this question to the business community, which may be watching tonight. Otherwise, we're going to tell business in a different way. Around the camera surveillance I co-signed a motion from the VVD. It will be submitted in due course, and I would like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u294	Thank you. I call Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u295	Thank you, Mr President. I shall therefore put to the vote my motion for a parliamentary inquiry into the monitoring of the livestock and meat sectors. I would also like to thank the Minister for the openness she has shown this evening and for saying that she wants to look more fundamental. She says: if meat is eaten I add dairy and eggs to it The animals are slaughtered and I can't make it more beautiful. That's right. I would again like to hold her to the motion that I have held, because she has previously dissuaded it, about revealing what lies behind it. Citizens are entitled to that transparency. Could she look at that again? I have the motion here and I can give it to the messenger. I don't have to re-table it, because it was already filed. The Minister also wants to look at the vulnerabilities in the system. I think that's a good idea, but I do have a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister of LNV has announced its intention to investigate the vulnerabilities in the current system and what measures are needed to improve animal welfare and food safety, including with scientists;]] [[points out that independence in this research must be paramount and therefore economic interests should not be taken into account;]] [[invites the government to involve scientists from Utrecht University specializing in ethics, animal behaviour and veterinary medicine,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-147]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u296	Thank you also to the Minister for bringing the black book that the Party for Animals has compiled and our ten ideas for improvement into this process. It is true that supervision is out of order every day and 2.5 million animals go to slaughter every working day. That's not possible. That is why this motion must be tabled. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several studies show that the supervision by NVWA is serious and structuralally inadequate;]] [[Considering that the Minister of LNV also concluded that the pressure on the slaughter process, motivated by economic considerations, has become too great to ensure the interests of animal welfare and food safety, but also adequate supervision, in an adequate way;]] [[calls on the Government to cease the slaughter of animals in the absence of proper supervision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-148]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u297	Your speaking time is up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u298	I'm out of speaking time, so I'm using the last words to thank colleagues who previously didn't feel like reducing the speed of the band. I believe that the PvdA and D66 are now coming forward with motions. Nice when proposals from the Party of Animals are taken over! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u299	Thank you, too. Mrs Bromet has the floor on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u300	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. We will discuss this very soon. I look forward to that. I sometimes imagine in the motions of the other groups that there are boxes on all these groups with drawers with the names of motions that are sometimes reappeared. I would say that we now have a lot of proposals in this dossier. It is time to implement it. And whether they have been accepted or not, they are good suggestions for the Minister to get on with it. I wish her every success with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u301	Thank you. Mr Van Otterloo has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u302	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister for the answers. To clarify, I was pleased with the 40%, because the employment rate for over 55 people is generally worse. My comment was just that this leads to outflow and that there is a need for cultural change in a number of places. That is why I made a plea for combining the expertise of the old generation with the enthusiasm of the new generation. Too often these restructuring processes mean that old people leave and young people start over. In addition, they forget what happened before that. I do not have a motion but look forward to the March letter, because then we can talk structuralally about the problems of NVWA. You don't have to hope so, but we can't rule out the fact that we're gonna end up pulling parts apart again. Big is beautiful led to a lot of conglomerates. These conglomerates have been defused again, because it has been shown that all the benefits that were expected are not there. In our view, this could be the fate of the NVWA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u303	Thank you. I call Mr De Groot on behalf of the Democrats 66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u304	Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group is not reassured by the Minister's reply. The Minister is going to look again at the vulnerabilities and she is going to rethink them. But also look at the old reports. Vanthemsche in 2008: insufficient supervision. The Research Council for Safety in 2014: the safety of meat is not guaranteed. That's the way it goes. And to this day, it's no different. This means that action must be taken now and not just reflection. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Minister cannot guarantee the food safety of the slaughter process as a result of the pressure on the slaughter process;]] [[calls on the Government to substantially reduce the tyre speed of slaughterhouses as long as animal welfare and food safety are not secured,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-149]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u305	Then there are two things that concern the people who work in the slaughterhouses and the NVWA. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the rate of movement of staff in slaughterhouses is very high;]] [[Whereas people on the slaughter lines are not always equipped for work due to the lack of appropriate training;]] [[considers that the basis for ensuring food safety and animal welfare starts with good working conditions;]] [[calls on the Government to launch a risk assessment of the working conditions of inspectors and abattoir workers and to inform the Court of Justice before the summer;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up an action plan to improve working conditions in response to this risk inventory,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas whistleblowers and whistleblowers are not heard in the internal organisation of NVWA and they are forced to go out;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to take complaints seriously and to provide protection for employees;]] [[Considering that the NVWA is so that in the case of sounds brought out, the internal search for the leak begins immediately, which is perceived as intimidating;]] [[noting that the Council of Ministers (including the Netherlands) of the Council of Europe has adopted a set of clear guidelines for the protection of whistleblowers;]] [[Calls on the Government to fully implement these directives with NVWA and to have annual independent and external reports on compliance with these guidelines by NVWA,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-150]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-151]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u306	The motion in part No. 150, on starting a risk inventory and looking at working conditions, is sympathetic. But I find it complicated to give that assignment to the Minister. This really is a responsibility of the abattoirs themselves. The Working Conditions Act also obliges them to do so. So I'm having a little trouble with that. I think we need to operate a little more smoothly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u307	The point is that people there can do their work in a safe and well-educated manner. This is an order to the government. Ultimately, this is something that makes an incredible contribution to both animal welfare and food safety. It seems to me that it is up to the government to consider how best to do this with which division of roles.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u308	I support the objective, but I do not think the Minister has a title for it. I believe that Mr De Groot should change the wording of the motion, because the Social Affairs Inspectorate can monitor it and intervene on it. That is what I am considering to Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u309	The motion is addressed to the government. The Minister will find her way in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u310	I note that the Animal Party has requested a separate debate with the Secretary of State for Social Affairs. That is what is attached to this debate. This is about the conditions of workers in slaughterhouses. I therefore assume that the Minister can also speak on behalf of the Secretary of State for Social Affairs, because that is what the Chamber has decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u311	This supports the remark I have just made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u312	It is now time for Mr Futselaar, who is going to pronounce his second term on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u313	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm inclined to say "to a few weeks" when we're going to talk about NVWA again, because that's about the regularity with which that happens. That's quite a sad observation. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I also missed an answer to the question of whether we could stretch the numerus fixus in veterinary training. When it comes to slaughterhouses, the Minister talks with industry, experts and organisations, including about tyre speed. This was a concrete example that was put at the centre of attention. I agree with that, but I would urge you to do so quickly. We see the justified fuss in society. I would like to say to the Minister that you have a rather broad view of society in this debate. So don't be completely blown away by people who say: business interests and so on. This lives widely in society, and the idea also exists widely that this cannot continue. I had a motion to add possible sanctions to the speed of the tyre, but the Minister has already promised to take that with him. I'm not filing that motion, but I'm filing the next one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the recent past, major reorganisation projects within NVWA have failed in whole or in part;]] [[considers that the NVWA benefits from a flat organisation with plenty of space for professionals in the implementation;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan for an NVWA which is less focused on strategic and organisational objectives, is more flatter organised and more focused on practical implementation in the field of inspection and enforcement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-152]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u314	Mr President, thank you very much. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Let me begin by saying that the responsibility for the operation of a slaughterhouse lies with the business community, 100% with the slaughterhouse. This is in the interests of food safety and animal welfare. Fortunately, a lot of slaughterhouses are doing well, but where things are not going well, there is a need for inspection. We must act against it if an inspector does not feel free or if he is intimidated. Not talk, but act, because that is in the interests of food safety, animal welfare and the reputation of the agro-food sector. Mr. Chairman. I have heard the Minister say a lot of things and I have heard her refer to all kinds of investigations that we are going to receive in the next two months. Maybe it's a little trivial, but I'll call it plaster sticking, because we're mainly working on all kinds of parts. We need to look at the very broad surveillance. For example, when we are talking about the sale of plant protection products on Facebook, that really requires a different way of monitoring. Mr. Chairman. I had already announced a motion, but I would like to remind you of the question in the interrupting debate with Mrs Ouwehand about how often camera images are used and looked back by the NVWA. The Minister would answer that, but in order to strengthen that force, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the task of the Dutch Food and Waring Authority is to monitor both our food safety and animal welfare;]] [[whereas if there are abuses, the NVWA must act hard against them;]] [[Whereas the government agreement agreed that, in order to ensure food safety and animal welfare and to protect the reputation of the Dutch agri-food sector, monitoring should be strengthened and consideration should be given to where this can be (cost) more effective and efficient;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with a detailed proposal for the summer in which remote camera surveillance (by NVWA) becomes part of a (cost) more effective and efficient monitoring of slaughterhouses, while also drawing up proposals to "recognize" food safety and animal welfare companies, e.g. by making the benefits of cheaper monitoring in favour of the sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Lodders and Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-153]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u315	Yeah, about that last sentence, 'cause I'm not comfortable with it. I know that Mrs Lodders is in favour of a reduction in supervision, if it goes well for a few months at company level. But she probably doesn't mean that here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u316	The intention of this motion is to have effective supervision. Companies that are constantly doing well must be recognised for this. What we are seeing at the moment is that, because of the high costs of NVWA, abattoirs move abroad. Then we are farther away from home, I say in the direction of Mr Graus, because the speed of the band to tackle that theme is really much higher abroad. Companies that do well can be recognized, also for the way they do well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u317	Let me get this straight. That doesn't mean there's less to check. I'm assuming camera surveillance is permanent there, too. It's about animal executioners. Those are individuals. That doesn't always have to do with a slaughterhouse.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u318	The camera surveillance is permanent, but I can see in front of me that the NVWA'er who sits in Utrecht's switching room is constantly looking at the images of the companies where things are less good and that he might look at the companies where things are going a little less frequently. That doesn't mean that permanent supervision will stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u319	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes. Then we get an opinion on the 15 motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u320	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the Dutch Food and Veterinary Authority. We need the second term from the government. I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u321	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would ask that Mr Moorlag's first motion, on reducing the speed of tyres, be retained. I just outlined the process I'm going into to do this. Based on the process, we're gonna make the choices. I'd like to go through that process nicely. That's why I'm asking you to hold that motion. Mr De Groot has also tabled a motion on tyre speed. I'm gonna bring him in right away. That would be the same thing. Maybe it's also an idea to put these motions together. They're both on the same subject. That might be so powerful. Let me just call it that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u322	Let me take a look at Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u323	I just want to think a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u324	Mr Moorlag is thinking. That's okay, of course. Then the Minister must give an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u325	That's a little lame, but I'd have to dissuade her now, because I just want to go through that process nicely first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u326	That's about the motion in part No. 139.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u327	Yes, and that also applies to the motion in part No. 149.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u328	The De Groot motion in part No. 149 has been dissuaded from the judgment and the request to apprehend her. Mr De Groot is also thinking, I think. Then the Minister continues with the motion in part No. 140.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u329	It calls on the government to step up the monitoring and enforcement of engine power in coastal fishing. I just indicated how we deal with that. On the one hand, we are committed to adapting and strengthening EU rules on the one hand. In addition, the recording of engine power will have to be done with the black box, i.e. with the technical means. The question is how effective more supervision is, because the engine power can be reversed if you see a NVWA'er coming. In addition, we are doing something on both sides. In that light, I advise against this motion. So we're working on it, but not as sec as this motion asks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u330	The motion in part No. 140 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u331	Yes. Then the motion to part No. 141, the Committee of Experts. I have just said that we have also set up an advisory committee. There really is a lot of different expertise in that. Those aren't the people involved in the NVWA. Those are really people who look at NVWA from different disciplines. In March, you will receive the report from the Advisory Board, which, for example, sets out how it assesses the matter of rethinking. Then you can take note of that yourself. That is why I would now advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u332	The motion in part No. 141 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u333	The Minister suggested that the points contained in the motion should be taken into account. Next month, we'll get an answer on that. Then I can put that next to each other. I am therefore prepared to hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u334	At the request of Mr Moorlag, I propose his motion (33835, No. 141). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u335	Then there is the Graus motion on part No. 142. I share the view of the Chamber that I am the one who may address you if something is not going well. In that light, I must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u336	The motion in part No. 142 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u337	The Graus motion in part No. 143. I have indicated that the intention is to allow these two teams to exist, to form three additional teams and to provide each of the five teams with two veterinarians. So I could actually say that I'm leaving this motion to judge Chamber, because it's policy. It's an existing policy. I'm gonna maintain those teams, and we're gonna make five teams. If I didn't recommend these, I'd suggest I'm not gonna keep them. I just said in the letter that I will. A request is being made to do something I'm already doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u338	You can also advise against it; that is up to you. Do you now judge Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u339	Yeah, because it's so weird pretending I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u340	Mr. Chairman, I need you to stand up for me, not the Minister. The Minister first said Court of Justice and then you say: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u341	No, I'm not saying she shouldn't. I'm saying she gave that judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u342	Exactly. She gave judgment, Room. That is not going to happen either, because it is already in the Acts. Those people are pretty careful. The Stenographic Service is paying close attention; I'm sorry, otherwise I'll get a comment on that in a moment. It is not true what the Minister says, because the two animal welfare teams are being cut up. The dog inspectors are also taken out. I know exactly what's gonna happen. I am very pleased that this motion has a Chamber of Appeal, because this is exactly what Mrs Ouwehand and I have asked for before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u343	Yeah, but with this explanation, I'm just gonna have to dissuade him. As he has now been formulated, I say that these teams will continue to exist. I've informed you of that. But if you're saying that this isn't true, that they're being cut up and that they're going to be completely different teams, then I have to dissuade him in that light.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u344	That's because the Minister regrets that she first gave Chamber judgment. I am simply saying that the current two animal welfare teams are being cut up, ripped open, because that is already known. That's why I'm asking you to keep those two. I have even asked for it because it says above: 'Hear the debate, to be sure, until the reports of the investigations are known'. That's not so hard, is it? It's just nice to ask us to hold off on it, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u345	Mr Graus is now suggesting something I have said that I am not doing. If he's gonna do this because he says I'm not doing what he wants, then I'm really gonna have to dissuade him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u346	Can I try to fix this? There's an operative for it. As far as the operative part is concerned, the Minister himself said that I am retaining the two teams. Mr Graus also has a certain interpretation of what is real, but that does not in itself change the operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u347	If it is, it can't hurt, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u348	I can take him, too. Mr. President, I'm just gonna take over. I think that's a good idea. Yes, I'm going to take over the motion, so you don't have to vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u349	Then I'll have to ask if anyone from the Chamber has any objection to the motion being taken over. No? Then it has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u350	That's totally good. That option's a little new. I have to internalize it from time to time. I have just heard that Mrs Lodders is very much in favour of doing so more often. For the right motions, yes you do have that in such a way...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u351	The motion in part No. 144.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u352	The motion in part No. 144. You ask the government to impose a prison sentence and a professional ban on all abusers. I have set out the options and also what the Minister of JenV is doing. But this motion goes a little further than that, so I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u353	The motion in part No. 144 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u354	The motion in part No. 145. We have an intervention policy. Options are included, whose closure of the slaughterhouse is the ultimate remedium. This motion actually says that this should always be done. There's also a judge's review there. If you haven't sufficiently substantiated that, then you can't do it either. So in this form, I must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u355	The motion in part No. 145 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u356	The motion in part No. 146. This motion goes a little bit on the previous motion. I also said just now that the slaughterhouse really caught up with the abuses and said that they should get to work on them. The fact that they're working on that themselves is also what you want. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u357	The motion in part No. 146 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u358	The motion in part No. 147. I'd still inform the Chamber about how we're shaping the committee. I'm quite open in this motion, so I'd like to give this one a Chamber of Judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u359	The motion in part No. 147 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u360	The motion in part No. 148. I said that we are going to start with this fundamental rethink. Here, Mrs Ouwehand says that we must stop the slaughter immediately. We're not gonna do that, so I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u361	The motion in part No. 148 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u362	On the De Groot motion in part No. 149 have just given all my judgment, with a free tip to put that motion with Mr Moorlag, but that is what the Chamber itself is about. The second is that I would like to discourage that motion, or in fact I would like it to be stopped, because we are just going into that process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u363	You had the motion in part No. 149 already advised against it, and it will remain so for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u364	Yes. The motion-De Groot in part No. 150 deals with working conditions in slaughterhouses. Indeed, I have to discuss this with the SZW colleague, because this is really in the field of labour inspection, as Mr Moorlag said. I am prepared to discuss this with my colleague. I hope that's enough. I would like to make a procedural proposal that I should have a word with my colleague, so that I know how to deal with this, and that I should inform the Chamber about it before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u365	Then we will receive a separate letter on this, in time for next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u366	The motion-De Groot in part No. 151 is about the whistleblower arrangement, I'll just call it a minute. There are actually two elements in this motion. "To fully implement the Directive at NVWA" and "to have it reported annually independently and externally." There is an annual report through the Annual Integrity Report and there is also an annual report from the Trusts Network. We are now in the process of shaping the implementation of this directive, so it is going to be fully implemented at NVWA, which I can already promise. I will see if I can inform the Chamber in any form of the reports that are being prepared. I just need to see if I can do that based on confidentiality of people's data. I find it a little complicated to judge directly whether this is possible here, because I do not want people to feel hindered to report to an integrity coordinator or a trusted person, because they think that their data will come out. I don't want to. But I'd like to see if I can do any kind of reporting on that, in such a way that people continue to feel free to report. If I could explain the motion in this way, I could give her judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u367	Mr. De Groot as the author?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u368	Mr. Chairman. The operative part is wider than the reporting only. It concerns the full implementation of those directives of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u369	I've already promised that we'll do it in full. I told you about that part that's what's happening. The second point is more about reporting, that I explain the motion as I just said I am explaining it. Then I want to see how I can do that, so that people do not feel hindered to report, because I think that is very important. If I may explain the motion in this way, I'll give her judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u370	We see the agreement of Mr De Groot on a non-verbal basis. That is why the motion for a resolution in part No. 151 Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u371	Then the motion Futselaar in part No. 152. I know he's always very skilled at seeing how the organization can do better. I hope to be able to continue this discussion at the same time as the rethink reports are in place. I would therefore suggest to Mr Futselaar that we hold this motion so that we can have that discussion after those reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u372	At the request of Mr Futselaar, I propose his motion (33835, No. 152). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u373	Then the last motion, which is in part No. 153, on camera surveillance. I'm being asked to come up with a proposal. I have just said that it is an interesting thought, and I would also like to look at it more closely. Then we really must try to see what is needed and what is meant. If I may read the motion in such a way that I am proposing how camera surveillance, in support of supervision, can influence the risk profile and thus also the frequency of inspections for companies, then I would like to give its opinion to the Chamber. I just have to comply with the regulations. That's what I just said. But if it's some kind of addition to that to see if you can make supervision better, I could give the motion judgment chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u374	Mrs Ouwehand, Mrs Lodders has the floor first, because it is her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u375	The motion is written down as it is written down. Of course we have to comply with the directives. That is what I indicated in the debate, and I do not want to change that. But I do believe that this should be part of effective and efficient camera surveillance. This does not mean that the old will remain as it is, but that we must have this in addition to it within the framework of the directive. Well, I think the operative part is just very, very clear. So I do want the Minister to look more broadly than the current supervision as it is now being completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u376	I have already said in the debate that I want to, but I really have to comply with the directive. That is really my framework within which it must take place. I also heard Mrs Lodder say that it should be additional. If I may interpret the motion in this way, I could give her judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u377	I have a feeling that the Minister, with this explanation, wants to stay with the current supervision. I really want to clarify the directive. In fact, I believe that what the directive requires can also be designed in a different way from what is actually being implemented in practice. So within the directive there is room to put this in addition. So I'm not talking about "interpretation" and "near." No, I think that current supervision should also change fundamentally. The operative part is simply clear and I would like the Minister to read the operative part as it is on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u378	Sure. I would point out that I have a framework within which it must take place and that I am open to changes that can also improve supervision. This is a broader discussion. For example, we have just talked about slaughterhouses that are not yet so keen to have certain camera surveillance, or something like that. I said: there we are going to organise physical supervision, because you will find that you must participate. I'd like to keep that space so I can do things like this right. But I understand Mrs. Lodder's saying, "Make a plan." I would like to do that, but then I would also like to look at how we deal with it, also given all the options of slaughterhouses. They really need to make their lives better. I'm not going to "reward" them all of a sudden by saying: you don't have to have physical surveillance anymore because you can just have camera surveillance. But let me just work out that plan and then let's discuss how exactly we're going to do this. With that explanation, I can give this motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u379	The motion in part No. 153 gets judgment, Chamber. Mrs Ouwehand has a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u380	The Party for Animals asked for camera surveillance years ago, so we're on our own for that. But I am a little afraid that this motion is a little too much ahead of the reasoning: it will then be cheaper and that money will then be returned to the sector. I think we're running out of supervision. That would be another reason for us not to support this. Does the Minister really see room for setting up camera surveillance in such a way that it can be cheaper and that money can then flow back to the sector? I don't think there's any room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u381	But I don't want to rule it out either. My goal is not to make the costs as high as possible. If we can get better supervision for lower costs, then Mrs Ouwehand will not be against that, will she? I just want to see if it works this way and if it can. I promised I'd work that out. If that effect is there, we'll see if that's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u382	Thanks for the response. The Animal Party does not support the motion as a precaution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u383	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u384	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u385	You could judge whether it's sufficient or not, even after. There's still a few loose questions. Mr Futselaar mentioned the numerus fixus for veterinary medicine. I would like to ask that of my colleague and I will see how she stands on the other side. Then there is Mrs Ouwehand's question about transparency and how I see it. The NVWA publishes national monitors. I will also look into how I can further zoom in in the reports on the main issues raised in the monitoring, in order to be even more transparent about them. Now it is often a kind of macro-report in which things like "as many percentage compliance" are mentioned, while in the WOB requests we really see the actual abuses. I do not think it is very happy that this should always be done through a WOB request, because then it will end up on the streets. I think we should report on this ourselves. I will see how I can name the most important abuses myself in these national monitors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u386	Fine. Thank you for that. In fact, I asked for a new assessment of the motion which the Minister had dissuaded six months ago. I had the motion taken to the minister through the officials. The operative part is: "calls on the government to ensure that the reality behind meat, fish, dairy and eggs becomes known to citizens'. Last time there was support for this 'including through labelling'. That's what the minister fell for, I remember. The motion was dissuaded. I kept it. If I remove that part of the labelling now, can the Minister embrace it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u387	Then Mrs Ouwehand could also say that I have already given substance to the motion with the commitment I have just made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u388	Then I shall simply put the motion to the vote, because that commitment is just too little for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u389	I think that's silly. I find it silly to put a motion to the vote if I make a commitment. Then I'd really dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u390	I don't think what the Minister promises is nearly enough. It is about people simply having no idea that organic pork is also derived from animals, from pigs, which have come to an end with CO stunning in those gas cellars. We switched that last time too. It scares people when they see it. It only happens once every five years or so that you see something about it on television for 30 seconds, but this is the reality. I think people have a right to know that. That's what this motion requires.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u391	I just said how I want to deal with more transparency. I'll stick with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u392	Mrs Ouwehand, if you wish to put this motion to the vote on the 18th, you will have to report it again by e-mail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u393	I'm going to e-mail. I'm gonna lighten the motion a little bit. Well, well, well. That's how constructive I am. I'm modifying the original motion and I'm reporting it for the voting list. I hope that everyone who is shocked by the footage from the slaughterhouses will support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u394	I would also like to remind you that the slaughterhouse whose images have now come out was transparent. It had some kind of glass look-through. That was around a road, a highway or a provincial road or something. They were asked by the municipality to protect it. So we were transparent, let me just put it this way, and then transparency had to disappear again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u395	That's right. I know this slaughterhouse. Whatever they're doing there, they're going to announce the slaughter process to civilians through an animated video. So that doesn't look like it at all. You just see cozy little pigs, they go like this, and they go like this, and then suddenly it's a hamlap. So that's not really informing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u396	The Minister had finished her speech, but Mrs Lodder had asked a question that had not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u397	That's right. It's about the camera footage. How many times have CCTV been used? I imagine the Minister doesn't know that right now. Then I'd like to ask her if she can send a letter about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u398	Shall I do so at the point raised in the reaction to the motion on the Labour Inspectorate? Shall I call that right there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u399	That's the motion in part No. 150.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u400	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u401	Then that's what we'll do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u402	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I also thank her staff, the members and the support. We are going to vote on the 18th on Tuesday on the 15 motions tabled, and probably also on two motions tabled by Mrs Ouwehand earlier on the parliamentary inquiry and on transparency. I actually wanted to close, but now Mr De Groot is back at the microphone. What else do you want to ask?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u403	I still have a question, because I was a little confused. We had a little discussion about certain data about the MDU, the mobile killing units. It was about whether there would still be category added in January, and it had to be February. I was a little confused, but does the Minister have any new information on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u404	I checked again. I understand that this was an administrative change on the form, which first stated that an animal was offered through the MDU, the mobile killing unit. It is in a manner of speaking no longer the box MDU, but category 8. Category 8 is equivalent to: an animal offered via the mobile killing unit. So nothing has changed in that sense. The MDU has become category 8. This is no other matter in substance; it is an administrative change. Mr De Groot says that these are sick animals. I asked you again and I have once again been confirmed that this is not the case. These are animals that are offered through the MDU, but the animals that are not allowed to enter the slaughter process should not be allowed to do so either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u405	That was the Minister's last answer. Thanks again to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u406	We're gonna vote 18 on Tuesday.
