ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Paternotte, on behalf of D66, for his questions to the Minister for Infrastructure and Water State, whom I welcome, about airlines that do not give back money. Mr Paternotte, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Maintain, intervene, it's strong lyrics we just heard about the demonstration on Dam Square. The criticism of the Amsterdam municipality by the cabinet is justified. Maintaining is also exactly what I am asking this Minister, because not only Amsterdam must comply with the rules, but also the Netherlands, for example, with the rights of passengers laid down in the European regulation 261/2004; that passengers whose flights are cancelled should be able to get their flights reimbursed. And yet travellers, when their flight was cancelled, recently massively received a voucher instead of the free choice between a voucher and money back. The Minister wanted to tolerate this. The European Commission said: The Netherlands, stick to the law. But Prime Minister Rutte said, well, we can go through with those vouchers. I commend this minister for whistle-back and maintenance from 14 May, but by 14 May hundreds of people have received vouchers and they still do not get the free choice. Airlines have the policy of not paying back. In e-mails I have seen countless examples of people who are unable to access their own money. A zzp'er from whom corona caused the revenue to collapse and who now desperately needs the money from a booked business trip. A mother who bought 24 tickets for a football team and now has 24 vouchers. And even a woman who is terminally ill and was told she had to wait a year for her money. Plenty of people think it's okay, a voucher like that. I have one of my own. But the law is clear: it is a free choice, no one should be forced to be a loan bank for the aviation sector. And yet KLM, Transavia and other companies refuse to repay money. That is why three questions to the Minister: 1. Does the European law on passenger protection apply at all or only from 14 May? 2. Do travellers have a right to their money back, if that's what they want? 3. What is it going to do to ensure that airlines give back their own money to people who want to?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I couldn't write along with the questions so quickly, but if I forget something, Mr Paternotte will remind me of that. The first question was: does the law even apply that people should always be able to get their money back? The answer to that is yes. This applies both before and after 14 May, which I have always indicated from the beginning, when people want their money back. I also got a message quite quickly in my mailbox from someone whose flight had been canceled and who wanted to return to the Netherlands from another country. He said he could go back with another company that was still flying, so he wanted his money back. That was an example that I thought was: I can reassure them immediately, that has always been the case. Why did we make that call at first? Because there was an acute situation, where the whole aviation collapsed at once. At that time, we said not only the Netherlands, but a total of fifteen other countries: is this not a reason to reconsider that rule 261, as you also mentioned? It's included that you have to get your money back in seven days. That could have caused a lot of problems for a lot of airlines, so that is why I have called, again, with a lot of other countries, to see in the meantime whether we can adapt those seven days or something like that. At some point, the European Commission stated that it did not think that was a good idea. In the meantime, it was also clear that this would require a normal European legislative process. In other words: that was an impassable path, so from that moment on we also indicated in the direction of the ILT that that indication is being withdrawn. Do people have a right to get their money back? That was your second question. Yeah, they did, and they did. Only in the beginning we allowed airlines to send a voucher a priori. And now we say that airlines can still offer a voucher, but they have to make it very clear that people can also get their money back. Then it is up to those airlines........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In my view, these were basically the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u5	No, because now the question is how the minister is going to make sure that people can get their money back if they want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr Paternotte knows that the inspection, the ILT, oversees the system. It cannot maintain on individual cases which have been found to be more frequent in the past, but on the systematic. So when an airline systematically does not pay back money or uses other rules, the ILT builds it up. Then the ILT can enforce administrative law on it. Of course, the road to civil justice is open to all those individual customers, as has always been the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u7	The ILT doesn't have to build up a whole file for that. It's just on KLM's website: "If your flight is canceled on or after 15 May, you are entitled to a refund. If your flight is canceled before 15 May, you can only choose a voucher." I heard the minister say this isn't right, that this isn't by the law. It's on KLM's website. Also on the website of Transavia, but with 4 June. So the ILT doesn't have to look for it. My question is: what are you going to do about this? Because people don't get their money back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u8	The ILT is an independent inspection. I cannot look into them exactly how they are shaping this enforcement at the moment, but I am willing to ask them exactly how they are doing this, and I think we will soon have to inform an AO Aviation Agency in advance. Well, that seems like the most convenient way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u9	That is the first promise. I'd like you to make it clear what the law is like. We were just having a debate about maintaining. We have said before that it is difficult for airlines to pay out vouchers. It's also hard for people who can't reach their money when they really need it. Those rights must be equal. You will now hear from me and you can see in a moment that it is clear on KLM's website that they do not give people their money back. It is even said that this is government policy. That's what they're hiding behind. It would be government policy not to pay back. Then what do you say to Pieter Elbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u10	That's not true. I've reported it from the start. The airlines were given the opportunity to initially offer people only a voucher, during the period when the clue was valid. Even then, I kept telling them to give the money back as a customer for whatever reason, because he needed the money, wanted his money back. That was the same way back then. From the moment the clue is withdrawn, every airline must indicate that the money can return within seven days. In addition, they can still offer a voucher. It's up to them to make that appealing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u11	So does the minister here say that KLM, Transavia, Corendon and TUI must return their money to anyone who asks for it, who so wishes, within seven days, if they have received a voucher earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u12	That is the case now, and that was already the case before 14 May.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u13	Can you indicate exactly what you are going to do to ensure that this happens? Because there are Facebook groups with hundreds of people, also with many poignant stories. They all indicate that they are trying to do this and that they are being told: no, the policy is that we do not pay back before 15 May.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u14	It is up to the ILT to maintain that. Again, I would like to ask how they are going to do that, so that I can inform you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u15	The Minister has previously told the ILT that it is not allowed to maintain. That is why I ask whether your message is now complete: "ILT, I have asked you earlier not to maintain. I said tolerate. Now I say, "Keep up the good work." Is that your obvious message? Because I think it is very important that it is also clear to the airlines that you are now saying what needs to be done as far as you are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u16	I understand very well that there has been confusion about it. That's what I hear in your questions. The difference is that we initially allowed airlines not to immediately make the choice to pay back within seven days, which is just in that line 261, and gave them the opportunity to offer people a voucher at once. In addition, it has always applied that someone, if he did not want to accept that voucher, should still get the money. Of course, that buys you a little time. That stopped on May 16th. From that moment on, a voucher could still be offered, but that repayment period of within seven days had to be stated immediately. In that sense, it's a nuance difference. It is not much more than that either, because I have always said that, in my opinion, I have also emphasised in letters of Parliament that the consumer's right to get his money back has always existed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u17	I have one more question, Mr President. Of course, that confusion also arose, because the Minister said, on 14 May: "We will maintain from now on." I think it is right that you should therefore say very clearly: "We do not maintain from now on or from 14 May, no, we maintain. That means that anyone whose flight has been cancelled has the right to get their money back within seven days. I'm going to see to that and I'm going to urge the ILT to maintain that."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u18	Before May 14th, the situation was that an airline could also just offer a voucher, initially. But to put it simply, as you have just said, we need to maintain both before and after 14 May if people do not get their money back. This is about the systematic enforcement by the ILT; in individual cases, this can be done by the civil courts. That's still the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u20	We're gonna see it soon, hopefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u22	With my question, I would like to go back to this. We already know that this is systematically going wrong. The Minister now says: yes, the ILT must maintain this. So what are the sanctions that the Minister and ILT are imposing on them? We know that people are still not getting the money back from their ticket at the moment. So what is the penalty if airlines do not cooperate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u23	The conclusions that Mrs Kröger draws, let me give her a moment. The sanctions as a minister are not here. The ILT may impose sanctions. This is about administrative sanctions. They can impose a penalty charge on an airline that doesn't comply with the general rules, so people don't pay back their money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u24	The Minister has just promised a letter for the AO on aviation. I know she has good contacts with the airlines, so my question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u25	Oh?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u26	Yeah, right. She speaks to them more often than we do, anyway. So my question is whether she would like to take the trouble to bring this rule to the fore again. Maybe in that letter she can back up what the reactions are. It seems to me very undesirable if everyone has to go to court to get their rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u27	I very much agree with Mrs Van Brenk that it would be very undesirable for large groups of people to have to enforce all this through the courts. I can't estimate that; there are lots of airlines and lots of types of vouchers. In the Netherlands, of course, we are also looking at a package together, for example for KLM, to ensure that they stay intact, so that people are not at risk. After all, when an airline falls over, you have nothing on a loose ticket in both cases. We are therefore very committed to this. But I totally agree with Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u28	Thank you. That also brings us to the end of Question Time. I'm gonna suspend the meeting and then we're gonna vote.
