ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u1	The next item is a debate on the government's letter of growth. A lot of people have come forward as speakers for this debate: no less than ten. You have also received a minute's extension of your speaking time, so we are going to start soon. First, I give the floor to Mr Wiersma of the VVD. And, of course, I would like to welcome the Minister very warmly. I forgot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u2	Mr. Chairman. A cold Tuesday night in February. Nevertheless, this is the most important debate of the year. Today we give the start of a journey with which we help the most important group of the Netherlands: the middle incomes. Then I start positively, because the Netherlands is incredibly good shape. More people than ever have a job. The paycheck looked better than last year and we invested in what belongs to the Netherlands: more hands on the bed, better education, more agents on the street. All good. And then there will be billions more: a Wopke-Wiebes fund. "Beautiful," I see the ruler thinking. Still, something's bothering me. The Netherlands is now in good shape, but people at home sometimes feel so little about it. Too little, like sometimes it's not about you. The fact that the Netherlands occupies beautiful places in all kinds of lists doesn't take away the concerns of people who try to make their household books right each month or like to see that extra district agent in their neighborhood. That's a problem for all of us here. Every party here knows the stories, about the hardworking freelancer for whom the last vacation is long ago. Or those two starters who can't find a place to live. Or that SME that has a lot of trouble starting up a business and, right now, making it grow. Mr President, that stings. Because in the Netherlands, it should be normal for you to improve every year. That ancient logic sometimes seems to be gone. We've got to get it back. The feeling that the train went through, but that you're still at the station, needs to go. Of course, the ageing population means that we have to earn more and more with fewer and fewer people. But there's more. 'Cause there's that feeling. The feeling that growth goes too often to big companies and internet giants instead of to you. That wages have risen too little, while the top salaries couldn't eat. That our education needs to be much better, but that we work too much part-time, while people would like more. That the burden increases every year. That we invest too little in research and innovation, precisely so that more people can find that job and raise that income. Mr. Chairman. Above all these problems, whether parties like it or not, there is one solution: economic growth. That's how I get to this cabinet's growth letter. Although many people say that economic growth is not necessary, the VVD says the opposite: economic growth is necessary to continue to enjoy a beautiful and pleasant life in the future. Growth isn't a hobby, it's not an end in itself, it's not a trick to make mailbox companies. It's our mission for all those ordinary Dutch. This cabinet letter from Minister Wiebes gives an important initial impetus to this. The VVD is happy about that. And we want more. Many people already need more growth. On three points, I would also like to ask the Minister about the middle income, SMEs and the whole ambition of this cabinet on this agenda. But first I see an interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u3	That's right. You have one minute and fifteen seconds left. I hope that's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u4	It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u5	I've listened to the jubilee story about growth. In itself it is a recognizable VVD sound. But the question is: what is the goal if growth is not an end in itself? Can you describe the purpose of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u6	I already referred to that. It's about what we've done over the past few years. It is all those important things that make the Netherlands so unique. The point is that we can keep it together: good education, security, the cop on the street nearby. These are important things that we all want to maintain: our prosperity. We also think it is important that people can improve on it every year. I think that's growing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u7	I regret that we are making so little profit or making progress in our discussions. You now give a substantive description of the broad concept of prosperity. We have had a lot of discussions on this. The cabinet is also trying to give substance to this. There is a minister here who is responsible for planning agencies, such as the CPB and the Planning Office for the Environment, who are also working on it. Then why don't you put that concept at the centre? Wide prosperity is the goal. Growth can be a means of doing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u8	I'm fine with it all. It's about what's left of someone at home on the couch in their wallet, that when they send their kid to school, there's good education, that they feel safe walking down the street and going to the grocery store. You may call it what you want, but I call it 'growth', 'economic growth'. I hope and hear that you agree. That is also a gain for all those people who expect us to make much more of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u9	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u10	Mr. Chairman. I mentioned three points on which I would like to ask the Minister. First of all, the middle incomes. This cabinet has given tax relief several times, but the economy has sometimes grown even more strongly. How is the cabinet going to make people really make more progress? Then SMEs. The State of SMEs shows that the peloton can grow very normal SMEs precisely by helping to keep up with technology, but also by taking on additional staff. The VVD would like to call on the cabinet to make agreements with entrepreneurs in the coming weeks, for example, on where exactly those rules are cramped or on where we could make more distinctions for them, so that we could reduce the burden on, for example, labour for small entrepreneurs. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the ambition of the cabinet. We don't want words, we want deeds. When will we hear more about the investment fund, about promoting full-time work, about childcare measures, about improving education? What are the leaders going to do now, I ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. This debate must not therefore become a political one-night stand. The VVD wants us to keep talking about growth forever. That is why I would like to ask the Minister whether he would like to think about an annual growth monitor, whether he would like to think about an annual growth day, with annual suggestions for promising growth policies, and whether from now on we can expect a growth paragraph for all legislative proposals. I mean, just a simple wallet check. Mr. Chairman. Finally, my final sentence. If we really want to improve the lives of the middle-income group and SMEs, and if we really want to grow as a country, we will all have to jump over bridges. You will see the VVD do the same in the near future. You will see a new VVD, who also dares to step away from his own taboos and who dares to think again. That's what I'm asking of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u11	It is a good thing that we were given a minute extra speaking time, because frankly this was an introduction that did not sound like a clock, but sounded a bit like a hole in the barrel. And in conclusion to the introduction, a few questions are asked to the Minister. I have the next question. This growth letter is a contemplative letter with only process proposals at the end. Does Mr Wiersma share my view that a letter like this would be fair at the beginning of a government period, but that such a letter is a bit embarrassing for a government that is in its third year of government? And does Mr Wiersma share my view that there are very few concrete proposals here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u12	I am happy with all these qualifications, as long as they make progress in calling on this cabinet to show something in the short term. So I do not just want those long-term perspectives, and I support Mr Moorlag in that. Next thing you know, these vistas are gonna be paperscapes. That is why I have asked a number of questions. What can we do in the short term, especially for those SMEs who simply want to hire someone? An SME can already employ five people, but could grow by hiring someone else. But he is then confronted with the fact that he almost has to be a labour lawyer to be able to do that at all. That's a shame. I see a lot of room there, and I also ask for the cabinet to make agreements with SMEs in the coming weeks. So that is an example that is taking place in the short term. I would like us to add such matters together tonight to the policy of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u13	The Wiersma cites SMEs as an example. Let me give you an example of education. The letter concludes with six intentions. It says, "We're going to make a plan for education." But what's in it for the kids? In these schools there is already talk of the introduction of a four-day education week. There's a screaming shortage of teachers. Last Saturday, the NRC said that the quality of reading education is deteriorating. What good is it for these kids if there's still a plan to be made now? And what is the VVD's response to the urgent needs in education?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u14	Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u15	The VVD is a supporter of market thinking, isn't it? There's a shortage of teachers. The level of working conditions must be improved. What is the point of improving the working conditions of these teachers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u16	I agree with Mr Moorlag that there is a lot to improve in education. You see what the labour market demands of society, but we don't even manage to train enough technicians. We are often side by side to call for this. I think it is a shame if training even has to stop sometimes. I think it is a shame that it does not even seem to be possible to offer technology in primary education, and that people from the business community cannot help when they would like to. So I see a major short-term task in education. That's what the cabinet calls it in that growth letter. This also applies to a lifetime of developing. How do we help people who might be sidelined or looking for something else to make that step? I therefore also believe that we should not wait two or three years for perhaps a new cabinet, but that we should see action on this during this cabinet period. And I would like to know what he is going to do before the Minister's summer, but above all what all these ministers are going to do. Because the Minister can easily say here: that is not up to me, but that is up to them. No, we're not married that way, and we don't have this cabinet vision for that. We're gonna do business tonight, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u17	I see Mr. Moorlag still wants to respond to this, but I haven't gone through the rules of the game tonight. I propose to allow two or a maximum of three interruptions per spokesperson. There are a lot of them, but these interruptions go in two, because I see that otherwise it will be very late tonight. And there's Mr. Van der Lee at the interrupting microphone. This is actually gonna be your second interruption. This way it will be very quiet for you, Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u18	Yes, but I cannot help asking Mr Wiersma on this point. He mentions a lot of things, such as SMEs, education. Those are all interesting things. Mr Wiersma himself talks about the Wopke-Wiebes fund. If we analyse the letter properly, it appears that there is only two references to that fund in the letter: only in Pillar 4 on innovation and in Pillar 5 on infrastructure. Does Mr Wiersma think that is right? You say all these other things are important, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u19	I read it something else, and I think it's good that we clarify that. I read in the Millions Note that these investments are seen and deemed necessary in four areas, in order to make a major leap in these areas. As I said, that is all nice and nice, but it must be clear to people what that will bring for them. So that's what I want to see. That's why the check on earning ability, the check on their wallet. But these areas are: knowledge development, innovation, R&D and infrastructure. If I understand the government's analysis, there is much to gain from that. I mentioned that we should have invested much more in this in recent years. So I encourage that we are going to do so now, but I also say: do not wait two or three years before there is a fund. We need to take steps for this in the short term. I'd like to hear from the cabinet how it's gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u20	So I note that the VVD considers it acceptable that four of the six pillars are not eligible for the investment fund. You mention four things. The first three are in Pillar 4. The fourth, infrastructure, is pillar 5. I find it strange that you write such a broad growth letter and put so many billions forward, while in four pillars, under the heading "What is the cabinet going to do?', no link is made in advance with the investment fund. Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u21	As far as I am concerned, this discussion is about what we, as the Netherlands, should do more about. There are all these pillars, all six, mentioned. I would find it a shame if we did not look at what we could do in policy and what we could do in the budget in a regular way. I think we should do that in all six areas. The fund is about the fact that with a one-off amount, perhaps many billions, a real boost can be given to something that does not require sustainable money every year, but is going to do a lot of work in one go and then produce something for society as a whole, so that we might find work if, for example, we put more into artificial intelligence. It should not be the case, then, that only someone with a Tesla will be able to do something about it; it should also be easier for an invalid to find work through such techniques. On the contrary, such an investment can make a huge contribution. But that does not rule out the fact that we must, of course, take all these steps in policy and simply in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u22	I hear Mr Wiersma shouting: action, action. I also hear him shouting: growth, growth, growth. He's still lacking in shouting: work, work, work. Does Mr Wiersma agree with me that economic growth can also be a means of getting back a bit of attention and rest in society? Think of time for family care, time for the family and time for the children. We are such a prosperous country and at the same time we see so many families working until it almost costs them the head to get around. Can we not reverse that economic growth myth of yours and see if we can get a piece of peace and attention for each other in society?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u23	It's not a myth, like I said. It's not a myth. But it's not a hobby either. It's not like we're doing that with each other because we like it so much. It is precisely, as you say, that we think it is important for people to be able to live their lives. It is important to help them, among all those balls that they keep in the air and which they feel are only becoming more, to be able to do so. If someone says "I want to work more, because then I also have a little more income," it would help if child care was properly arranged and he didn't lose all that money at once. What if you're an entrepreneur, you have a sandwich shop and you want to sell a beer? To do that, you don't have enough to use one toilet and you have to have two toilets all of a sudden. That kind of, almost nonsensical, rules get in the way for people to grow very close. I believe that if we use that together, we will give many more people not only the space to grow, but also the peace to be able to arrange it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u24	Work is meaning. Work is a fruit. That's good. It's nice to work. It's good to work. At the same time, we see that people are struggling to make ends meet, to work hard, perhaps by now they have two jobs in a family. Those are also the people who have the care. Those are the people who volunteer. There's so much coming for families. You confess with your mouth that economic growth is not an end in itself, but at the same time everything you say and exudes as if that growth is an end in itself. How can the VVD help to get some rest in society again? That these people, who are under the rush hour of life, find peace again to give attention and time to each other and to their children?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u25	I would almost say that's why we're in this cabinet together. I don't think there's any contradiction. I think it causes a lot of stress if you want to grow right, even if it only works in hours, or you want more help with your child's care. You have the feeling that this isn't there for you or it doesn't pay off, that it actually stops the growth you can make. Growth is also ensuring that good balance, that you can keep those balls in the air. We have to help people do that. But then we'll all have to make sure you end up with something more in the wallet. You know as well as I do: this is under pressure if we want to keep everything from our prosperity, education and security. So we have to en-and. That means that growth is just a sober conclusion for a good life, not a myth, not a hobby.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u26	Mr. Bruins, you're also in the middle of two-way interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u27	It's a little closure. Let us then try to find Mr Wiersma, not to measure growth by the number of hours of a contract of employment or gross national product, but to measure the extent to which people come to their destination and live the good life with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u28	Okay, Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u29	For me, growth is the national income that we earn together and also have to earn to pay everything. If you look at what goes from that national income to people's wallet and what goes to the collective, the government, and also to companies, you'll see that that wallet of people is intuitive. That takes away exactly the space that we allow all those people to make their own choices. That is why this is a task that is not only important for the long term, but is already calling for more action from the cabinet in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u30	Thank you. Mr Futselaar of the SP has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Economic growth is not an end in itself as far as the SP is concerned. The goal is well-being and prosperity for people, and that in addition, in a way that ensures that our planet remains viable, also for future generations. In his letter, the cabinet states as a central point that economic growth should increase in the coming decades in order to ensure that households get some more of a financial improvement. But if there is something that has shown us in recent decades, there is no automatic link between economic growth and household purchasing power. After all, we have had enough years behind us in which the economy grew and business profits increased, but this almost did not translate into purchasing power gains. Wages in the Netherlands have been lagging behind real economic growth for years. In addition, we see that an increasing proportion of household charges will be increased, for example, VAT increases in relation to companies and the increase in capital. In other words, economic growth may be a prerequisite for improving purchasing power, but certainly not the only one. The question of how to divide it is just as important. If the cabinet rightly states that people are concerned about their income, let us conclude that the cabinet is more part of the problem than the solution to these concerns. Mr. Chairman. For an agenda, this letter is very general. As has already been said, the cabinet comes up with six themes or domains to help strengthen the economic strength of the Netherlands. In itself, these six themes all sound quite reasonable, although they are often not very clear in terms of political choices. It is said: infrastructure. But they don't say anything specifically about roads or tracks, for example, like there is no nitrogen crisis. Developing a lifetime, yes, but in practice they mainly leave it to a next cabinet. I want to take one out of it specifically, and that is the first theme: talent development or education. That is perhaps the most concrete and, as far as I am concerned, the most annoying issue in the letter, perhaps also because I am an educational spokesperson. Because the idea that you can solve structural problems in Dutch education with curriculum renewal or digital learning resources is really complete nonsense, which is miles away from the reality of the workplace. Really the very, very last thing our education needs right now, is a few more years of talking about "twentyfirst century skills" or the enormous potential of digital learning tools, especially now that we see that our children's reading skills are deteriorating every year. Invest in teacher salaries, in smaller classes, in ways to improve the flow between forms of education for children from, for example, disadvantaged faces, so that our talent really flourishes. Mr. Chairman. Apart from the passage I am angry about, the letter is quite general and it would be very tempting to take it for notice and to throw it into the great pile of economic ambitions of recent decades. But there is still the fund, the billions fund announced in the Millions Note, which was actually expected to give more clarity about its implementation. I'm afraid that's disappointing. Before starting that fund, it is important for the SP to learn lessons from other funds from the past. For example, we had the Economic Structure Strengthening Fund, abolished in 2011. Of these, the source of income was very different, i.e. the natural gas benefits, but expenditure was infrastructure and knowledge infrastructure. That sounds familiar. Let us learn from the mistakes of that fund, namely that the Court felt that it had far too little control over expenditure and that the regional distribution in the Netherlands....... was worthless. For example, 1% of the proceeds went to the north of the Netherlands, which by chance was the source income of the fund. I know that the Minister regularly comes to Groningen for other files; he will have heard this more often, I suspect. We have had, and still have, the top sector policy that has been criticised. For example, the objectives are very vague, so that you can hardly say afterwards: have we achieved what we wanted? You can see that a limited number of large companies dominate the process very much. That is a criticism we have received. We have had the Innovation Platform and so on. So if the Minister comes up with a draft of this fund, can he indicate what lessons we have actually learned from previous funds and how we are going to avoid such mistakes? Finally, what to do with this fund? There are two moves here, or four if you follow Mr Wiersma's explanation. As far as the SP is concerned, this offers opportunities for another economy, much more based on green jobs and green prosperity. I am thinking, for example, of'salary' but it is an example of'salary' houses in the Netherlands, especially in the social housing sector. I am thinking of all the roofs without solar panels that we have in the Netherlands. At the same time, we can, at one stroke, greatly boost construction, make houses more habitable, reduce energy bills and bring climate goals closer. Something similar can be done if you stimulate public transport. And, of course, we still have a nitrogen crisis, which would cost billions if we did not want to limit ourselves economically altogether. These are the problems now, but they are also the problems for this future. As far as the SP is concerned, this should be the agenda for an investment fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u32	Thank you. I call Mr Bruins of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u33	Mr. Chairman. Economy is a means, a wonderful means to build a country where people can live together safely and healthyly, live the good life together, and support the fabric of our society. I am thinking of a healthy balance between working and taking care of each other, but also of caring for our earth through the transition to circular agriculture and the transition to clean energy. Economic growth is a wonderful tool, but it must never become an end in itself. I'll take Mr Wiersma to that. When our society becomes at the service of economic growth, rather than the other way around, economic growth becomes like a golden calf, which we all dance around. We work our asses off at the expense of rest, attention or time for the family. Or we get everything out of the planet for the here and now, but we actually steal it from the people there and later. Economic growth as a goal is like an idol, an idol that makes us forget what has value. It is from the deep-seated vision of good life and how economic growth can contribute to the full support of the Christian Union for its commitment to a growth agenda, a growth agenda that contributes to the broad prosperity of our country. In the growth letter itself, however, I read little of this broad concept of prosperity; Mr Van der Lee mentioned it. Can the Minister explain to me why? And does he share the fundamental premise that investment in economic growth should always have that underlying perspective of broad prosperity? Mr. Chairman. I have concerns, too. Because when I see growth, growth, growth being so central, I wonder what that means in the trade-offs that are going to be made. Will the ratio of the flat Monopoly board rules win, which makes us think that it is better to put the euros in the university skilled than in the MBO, or that we think that a euro in Amsterdam is more economically profitable than a euro in Emmen? Can the Minister explain how this concern is addressed in the knowledge component of the growth agenda? And when we talk about knowledge, why just focus on digital learning resources? Why not take the leap towards sustainability of schools or healthy school classes? Because a country that offers its children the best is a good country. Speaking of knowledge, tomorrow evening we are discussing the report of the Borstlap Committee, with the proposal to give learning rights to every Dutchman during working life, starting with the professionals in the MBO. We can do this fast. The first steps towards this system of learning rights have already been outlined by the Borstlap Commission: an investment in the future of our labour force. The cost is for the benefit, so it is ideal for a possible growth fund. How does the Minister see this? Mr. Chairman. Of course, infrastructure will also be an important pillar of the growth agenda. But more infrastructure is not necessarily better. Does the Minister see that it is also important to decouple economic growth from mobility? Digital means, smart industry and smart logistics should also explore the option of less mobility. Does the Minister agree with me that this growth agenda does not require a separate fund for infrastructure, but that we should consider the processes for making choices? Because the growth agenda is not about maintenance or regular infrastructure, but about the Christian Union really about a scale leap in mobility. How does this delineation take place, I ask the Minister. How is the Minister going to ensure that aspects of viability in shrinking regions and the opening up and revitalisation of other areas, such as border regions, are taken into account? Because the South axis of the twenty-first century is perhaps near Noordwolde. And a good connection with the Hanseatic countries might be more important than a prize-fighter ticket to Tokyo. When it comes to innovation and R&D, I have an important appeal for the cabinet: take care of it with an iron hand. Ensure an independent assessment of the plans and a priority setting that cannot be adapted to the interests of politicians or lobby organisations at random. This requires a good balance, in which politics discusses in advance the organisation of the process, but not the outcome of it. Of course, the Court's budget law must remain intact. This well-designed process requires knowledge and experience from the pre-Rutte-I time. Let's just call it FES. Make sure we don't reinvent the wheel for something we've had decades of experience with. And start fast. We are still reaping the fruits of the past, but withering strikes in innovation country. Make haste, use proven and proven methods and processes, using the power of public-private cooperation and co-financing of governments and businesses to create societal transitions and economic innovation. Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. I see in the growth letter a first move towards a possible future growth fund for one-off investments in the future. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, this needs to be kept tight. This does not cover structural or regular expenditure. Finally, ensuring that the quality of plans remains higher than high and that we do not count ourselves rich with average or compromise. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u34	Thank you. Mr van der Lee van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks insists that the goal of what we are discussing here is broad prosperity. Growth is a means of achieving this. I regret that in this letter in which others are called upon to make a growth leap, a quality jump or a scale jump, the cabinet does not yet show the beginning of a leap. It's at its best in a split. This is also clear from the difference between Mr Wiersma's speech and Mr Bruins' speech. But when it comes to concretisation, the cabinet with the main leg is still very much in the past. It is absolutely true what Mr Futselaar says: if you look at what is ultimately focused on and where the link to the investment fund is explicitly made, that is in the field of knowledge and infrastructure, exactly the goals that we have financed through the FES. There's nothing new in that regard. New ones, however, and I think this is important, are all kinds of opportunities described: developing talent, developing talent, the opportunities of the most important transitions we stand for, such as transition in industry and agriculture. But at the moment there is no question of going through with this. I'm really worried about whether that's actually gonna happen. I share the government's analysis that we are facing a major challenge because our workforce is shrinking, the number of older people is increasing and the cost of care and the AOW will therefore increase, and that we need to address this issue and that new, sustainable growth will be needed. It still depends on how you look at redistribution, but apart from that: I see that point in itself. What I don't understand, by the way, is that the DOD is automatically mentioned. Like it's a given that we're going to that 2%. That seems to me to be a purely political choice, and I find it strange that it was mentioned in this letter. So I understand the analysis, but the question is: where are these opportunities and where are the real new opportunities? That's how I think it's a pretty skinny letter. I see the same stories about AI, nanotechnology, quantum mechanics. These are all important key techniques. I am also in favour of investing in it, and I am more in favour of a brainport than the classic mainport thinking. So I can go along with that, but where are the really new steps? To my taste, they are only in the sixth pillar: seize the opportunities of transition. What I find very strange is this. On the one hand, the letter explains that infrastructure is not only about accessibility for people and goods, but also about the transport of nitrogen, hydrogen and energy. But in the elaboration under the heading "What will the cabinet do with the six pillars?" no link is made to the investment fund. As if the decision has already been taken that an infrastructure project within the framework of the energy transition, which contributes to our earning capacity and can also be the backbone for more earning with brainport activities, would be abandoned. I want the Minister to make it clear that such projects could in principle also qualify for the investment fund. I do not know whether Mr Wiersma would like to interrupt on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u36	Mr Wiersma walks a bit along the interrupting microphone. But he's being challenged now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u37	That's how it works, Mr. Chairman. I was looking for what Mr Van der Lee is actually saying. In the energy transition we need a lot of innovation. So we need to get our energy in other ways. We can become very good at that as the Netherlands, we can even earn our money from it. I think they're all great opportunities. Mr Van der Lee himself mentions the infrastructure. These innovations are also very clearly included in the investment fund, aren't they? I would say that we put all the ticks in the box in the policy, in the regular budget and in the investment fund. So it's some kind of crazy noise that Mr. Van der Lee makes here. If it is at the service of innovation and infrastructure, then I think it is part of this fund. What's the real point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u38	Well, the real point... If you read the letter correctly, you will see that it is in pillar 5 about the classic infrastructure. Then it's about transporting people and goods. That's explained there, too. There it is said that the Millions Note said that this area is eligible for the investment fund. The energy transition is in pillar 6. There's no explicit link in that. The strange thing is that at the time of the FES, also in terms of natural gas revenues, we failed to take a lead in wind energy and solar energy. Now there is a potential opportunity for hydrogen, but for the time being I do not see an explicit sentence in this letter indicating that a hydrogen project could qualify for this investment fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u39	This helps, because that is the fear of Mr Van der Lee. I read it differently. I didn't read "classic infrastructure." I also see smart mobility, electric cars and all kinds of examples of this as well, as long as we check the contribution to our earning capacity. It's gotta be tough. I do not think we are so different, but let the Minister explain whether this is indeed something you see but what is not there or whether it really isn't there. I read it in a way that this is just part of good innovation and good project support to help the Netherlands further. That could be just like that in the energy sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u40	Well, I haven't read the letter like that. I hope that the Minister will clarify this later and explain why only two pillars explicitly link the investment fund and not the other four. I think there's a conscious thought behind that. If it's pure coincidence, then that can also be corrected. Thus, out of all these six pillars, projects that contribute to the earning capacity......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u41	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u42	As far as the investment fund itself is concerned, I agree with what Mr Bruins says about it. It is important, however, that we are talking about investments that can also be overseen over a certain period of time and that it is not the intention to finance regular activities from the budget from an investment fund. At the same time, there are opportunities here. I will give you a concrete example that Mr Wiersma might address, because he is right to make the point that the Dutch citizen in his wallet is not aware of the economic growth in the past period and may not notice it in the future either, because much of the extra earning capacity has to be spent on rising care and AOW costs. But what if we just borrow the 15 billion in investment in infrastructure, energy infrastructure and the strengthening of our electricity grid on the market with a green bond from that fund? At the same time, we can pay the costs of citizens and businesses who otherwise pay those investments through their energy bills. Because that is also a question for the Minister. This is very much about stimulating supply and creating new opportunities in supply, but you also need a demand. Those products must also be taken. You also need something on that side of the economy. With this type of proposal to make investments that you have to do anyway and which you can finance much cheaper as a State because the people even commit to participate in a Dutch green bond at the same time you can achieve a relief in the energy bill of citizens and companies. You can even say to companies: then you will really do your best for energy saving and we will even extend that payback period to seven years. This helps the transition and it also helps the purchasing power of citizens. It initiates this transition and it contributes to the earning capacity of the Netherlands, because we need that infrastructure desperately, both for all our brainport activities and for our mainport activities. So I'd like to hear from the Minister how he thinks about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u43	Thank you. Mr Moorlag, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u44	Mr. Chairman. There it is, this long-awaited letter of growth, a letter that you think will be: now there will be concrete measures for the urgent issues facing the Dutch economy. But the content of the letter is extremely disappointing. There is simply a lack of urgency in the letter. I characterize the letter as a pretty treat that's surprisingly little behind when you scratch it off. The letter is very contemplative. And when you look at what is being proposed at the end of the letter, you see that these are only procedural measures: plans are going to be made. It gives the impression of someone who says very tough: I'm going to quit smoking and I'm going to make a plan to do that in 2030. There's no force in this letter. Take the education. Education's just on fire. There's a screaming lack of professionals. I mentioned in an interruption the four-day class week. Also the reading skills run backwards. But what's in the letter? We're gonna make a plan. Mr Futselaar was right to whip about that. There's just a lack of urgency here. There's just got to be money in education. There must be staff, teachers, included. This sector simply needs to be made more attractive, not only in terms of working conditions but also in terms of working conditions. And I really miss that urgency in the Cabinet. The second point, Mr President, is infrastructure. The letter states that if we really want to make an economic leap, we should not opt for incremental measures. But I don't see any incentive in the infrastructure to make a system jump. When we look at the infrastructure in the MIRT, we see that everything is fixed in it until 2030. It's cast in concrete. The Dutch railway network is at the limits of its capacity. We can see that there is plenty of investment elsewhere in Europe in high-speed connections, but the Netherlands is very poorly connected to them. Yes, towards Brussels and London, in a southerly direction, something is happening. But what happens in the east and in the northeast direction? I have sometimes said mockingly that Amsterdam on the international HSL network is the Roodeschool of Europe, a leading station. If you really want to make a system jump, you invest in hsl networks and you also offer an alternative to that much too polluting air traffic. Then lifelong learning, Mr. Chairman. The government doesn't have its own ideas about that. She leans on the Borstlap Committee. This is reminiscent of the nitrogen dossier, on which the government is not able to draw up a coherent plan either. That's what the Remkes Committee is for. We may as well just appoint Borstlap and Remkes directly as ministers. Lifelong learning is something that has been on the agenda for years, but for which no concrete measures are proposed. That really needs to be addressed. The lifespan of training, occupations and organisations is getting shorter and shorter. We see that hundreds of thousands of people are locked up in jobs where they do not have access to study facilities. The Labour Party believes that we should introduce a system of non-competitors' learning rights, so that people can claim them later in their careers. The Foundation for Economic Research at the University of Amsterdam has a detailed plan for this. My question to the Minister is: does he want to look at it and do something about it? Mr. Chairman. We must also opt for selective growth in the Netherlands. We've had a hard time on the labour market. If we have oversupply in the labour market, we opt for wage moderation. The PvdA believes that wages should be raised, because this creates a different and more productive reallocation of labour. My question to the Minister is whether he shares that view. Shouldn't the government take a step in that part of the pay structure that can affect it? My colleague Gijs van Dijk has taken the initiative to base the minimum wage on a 36-hour working week. If you take that as an hourly wage formula, that would increase a lot of people by about 5%. This would also mean something for organisations such as Amazon, who opt for the Netherlands as their location. They take up a lot of space. The profits go to the foreign shareholders. This attracts labour migration and seizes the housing market, the scarce space of this country. I will come to the end of my speaking time, Mr President. The PvdA opts for selective and sustainable growth, for growth that contributes to the broad prosperity of the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. I can go on for minutes, but the clock won't allow it. I am happy to continue the debate. I'm curious to hear the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u45	Thank you, Mr Moorlag. Mr Graus, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u46	Thank you. Good evening, Madam President. I thought it was a bit of a difficult debate. It is also a bit of a boring name: the growth letter. I got a little spontaneous diarrhea from the growth letter. I had expected: quite Wiebes, the nederwiewiewiewiebeletter or something like the "with Wopke lake Wiebes" plan or something else. Those are pretty nice things. I'll help the minister come up with a little exciting name from now on. This affects a lot of spokesmen. It is therefore difficult for me, because I am only the Economic Affairs spokesperson and especially when it comes to entrepreneurship. I understand from my colleague, Bertema, that everything that is about developing talent and developing talent is raging on all sides. This is the subject of a major debate on 5 March, so I leave that to my colleague, Mr Beertema. So I shall confine it to the matters for which I myself am responsible. I would like to say a few words to Mr Wiersma. He was talking about a one-night stand. I can assure you there's nothing better than a one-night stand. If you've had a few weddings, you'll know all about it. There's nothing wrong with a one-night stand. Despite everything I have read in the letter, I would actually like to say to the Minister: start by removing all obstacles when it comes to nitrogen or pfas. Why don't you take that away in a rush? We are asking for this in virtually all the debates where possible. Let the burden, including the administrative burden, be noticeable and palpable. That's what I've been asking for 13 years. There are always plans for that, especially from the VVD. I appreciate that something is being done about it, but it is not noticeable and palpable. If you ask entrepreneurs, they say, "I don't know anything about it." What is the Minister going to do about that? Minister, your own party colleague has already mentioned this in his contribution. I would have liked to have had a reaction to that for the benefit of all entrepreneurs. Because many entrepreneurs came and got into trouble by this government or at least by measures taken by this government. Maybe the minister can straighten something out in the last year. The PVV is of course for the future-proofing of e.g. the Netherlands and increasing prosperity and well-being. This has already been said by my colleague from the Christian Union in the interrupting debate. We are also very much in favour of this. In fact, it should be possible that, if people have children, one of the parents stays home, especially until the children go to school. Then the parent's education stays with the parents. All this is very important, but it just can't be anymore. They have to! They're all just gonna have to do double work. They're gonna have to take the kids to that babysitter's mom's, and then they're gonna have to take them back to that aunt's or that uncle's. That also gives you less fun kids, is my opinion! Something really ought to be done about that. I also think it is important to invest a great deal in the development of certain key technologies, including artificial intelligence, AI, artificial intelligence. We have had separate debates on this, so I will not go into it too deeply now. We are doing this not only because of the economy, but also for the sake of greater autonomy and independence from abroad, where possible. What does the Minister do for that? We are concerned not only with economic matters but also with foreign independence. That is very important and that is becoming increasingly important. We have a debate on 5G on Thursday. We see that we are actually completely dependent on the Chinese. I'm really not comfortable with that. I'd like to have a reaction to that. We're having that 5G debate on Thursday. Furthermore, I really want to focus on economically disadvantaged areas or shrinking areas, such as South Limburg, where I come from. That is of great concern to me. I live in an economically disadvantaged area, a shrinkage area, just like parts of the North Netherlands. What is the Minister going to do specifically? I didn't think the distribution was entirely correct. I think there should be more to those areas; much more to the North Netherlands and to Limburg and certainly also to South Limburg. I would also have liked the Einstein Telescope to end up in South Limburg, and Mr Amhaouch will certainly support me as a colleague in Limburg. I would like the Minister to be able to make a commitment on this, because he can do that, not only because of the most suitable soil, but also because of the jobs involved. Perhaps the minister can make a promise, then Mr. Amhaouch is happy and then he can sit down again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u47	Mr Amhaouch, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u48	I shall sit down when Mr Graus says so, but I would like to say something. Indeed, these regions are very important, and I will come back to that in a moment, but still on Mr Graus's point about being independent from abroad. I understand that in certain critical areas such as vital infrastructure, we want to be less dependent on abroad, but the Netherlands is a small country with a very large foreign country. We need to work together in Europe to keep our industry above water. We need to work together in the world in order to be able to export to other countries. How's the PVV looking at that? In our efforts, you can't say that we have to be independent from abroad, can you? We just need to make a strong connection with abroad and not be crazy Henkie, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u49	There's a point, Mr. Amhaouch. That is why I said: wherever possible and as much as possible. Of course, we have been a trading country for centuries, and perhaps the best trading country in the world, or even within the EEC, which we were in favour of. We are for Europe and we were also for the EEC. Switzerland had a free trade agreement before the whole of the European Union together. I think we are a very strong trading country, and we should continue to be. I am talking, for example, about the sale of energy companies, on which we have also had debates. Only the Socialist Party and the PVV were against it. We have warned: boys, now it is the Swedes and the Germans, but soon it will be countries that we are not happy with. Now it's Japan. We are instantly dependent on abroad, even when it comes to primary necessities such as energy and heat. We can't let that happen. This also puts affordability at risk. This puts security of supply at risk. Apparently it's just the Socialist Party, all the way to the left, the Futs, Mr Futselaar, and the PVV, all the way to the right, and nobody else seems to care about that. I have sleepless nights of it, also about that 5G, because it can't be 100% guaranteed that it's all spy-free. We cannot even deliver everything within Europe when it comes to infrastructure. We are already completely dependent on the Chinese. I think that's really creepy and scary, and that's what I'm saying. I'm worried about that, and I don't want to take anything away from those people. We must try to keep that in our own hands as much as possible. I don't read about that, but that's important to our country. Billions are being invested for the future, while those Chinese are on their hands and pollute the place. We are at the forefront and then we need to invest even more billions at the expense of our farmers, builders, gardeners, fishermen and so on; all SMEs. I just don't think that's fair. There is nothing wrong with: first, as I said on television yesterday. There's nothing wrong with that, because you'd always take care of your children. You wouldn't be worth a snipe if you didn't take care of your kids. We must take good care of our people, our people. There's nothing wrong with that and nothing scary about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u50	It's a good thing I didn't just sit down... But it is important that Mr Graus indicates what we should not do. I recognize a number of things, how we should deal with critical issues. But what are we supposed to do? Mr Graus says, for example, that within the EEC, yes, we want to work together there. But is Mr Graus happy with what is happening now, that the English are leaving Europe, that we have to make new trade agreements at certain import rates again, that when we export the trucks of agriculture and horticulture will be back in Rotterdam? Is that something Mr Graus would like? So I'm also looking, but not just for what we don't want. But how do we strengthen the Netherlands in Europe, together, so that we have a strong economy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u51	But we've done that for centuries. We've always been in the lead. We were the best for centuries ago. Also sympathetic; we are found everywhere sympathetic, including our king and queen, whom I am very proud of, everyone. But we just do it very well abroad, also make the best products. That is what you see in the export of agriculture; we simply have the best products. The Chinese beat each other in the head to get our milk powder there. We're just the best. So we don't need it. And I told you that we are quite capable of trading on our own. Do you really think that if we leave the European Union, then suddenly no one wants the Dutch products? Here, that's just bullshit. And pay attention. Of course, I am in favour of economic cooperation, and when it comes to cooperation against terrorism and all that. But you can do that outside the European Union, because we don't have to be a province of Brussels to do that. And just now I was talking about the advance: look at our pulse trawlers, which is being turned around by the European Union. Because we're ahead. They're just gonna get us, they're gonna fuck us. And that's how it happens with other files, exactly the same thing. And if you look at farmed meat; a Dutch invention, but I don't know how many millions have gone to America now, but not to the Netherlands. You can't do all that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u52	Mr. Amhaouch, finally?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u53	I think I have to do it with this answer, a very long answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u54	I can go on for another hour...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u55	No, no. Mr. Graus, I'm asking you to make a point right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u56	I mentioned a few current examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u57	I hear Mr Graus says that we can actually do everything in our power, and yet we need to work together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u58	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u59	No, we are not going to continue this debate now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u60	You must be lúísteren, Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u61	Mr. Amhaouch did, because he didn't sit down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u62	But he has to listen. I sat at one of those Tupperware night tables last night at Eva Jinek's. No one listened there either. People don't listen anymore. I didn't say "in our face," did I? I have just said that we have been the best traders in the world for centuries. That's not "in our face," is it? We've gone everywhere, we've traded everywhere, we've been loved everywhere, and we've been the best everywhere. That's not in our uppie, is it? But it is now a matter of asking this Minister for as much independence as possible and as much autonomy as possible for the benefit of our citizens. And especially when it comes to energy companies, that should never have happened. But also when it comes to artificial intelligence, or 5G. We're too late. We're going after the facts with it. I'm worried about that. And in twenty years' time, when I'm gone, you'll be thinking of me a lot, Mr. Amhaouch. Because I also predicted the credit and banking crisis years earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u63	Mr. Graus...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u64	And then they called me a communist, but I got it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u65	Mr. Graus...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u66	I also predicted the phosphate crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u67	Mr. Graus...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u68	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u69	I don't doubt your predictive abilities, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u70	No, but I'm sick of people who don't listen. They don't listen to what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u71	Have you come to the end of your speech, or were you...?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u72	Well, I have 35 seconds left. I gave up my night for that, so I'm gonna finish that, too, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u73	Yes. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u74	But how is the Minister going to improve purchasing power? What is the Minister going to do to get as many people into work as possible? Those who can, of course, because some people unfortunately cannot. How is this shepherd of our sheep going to ensure that people, his sheep, can benefit more from economic growth? I would have liked an answer to that. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u75	Thank you. There's one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u76	It's about the one-night stand, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u77	Well, I hope not, because that is really out of the order of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u78	He mentioned that in his term. He was talking about a one-night stand. I didn't bring that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u79	Mr. Graus, will we see if Mr. Wiersma has a question for you? Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u80	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna have to talk to my wife about that anyway, but my question is another one. Mr Graus asks a number of questions that I also asked, so I can only encourage that. But an investment fund has also been announced. I have not heard Mr Graus say about this, so whether he sees it as an opportunity to achieve more growth once in some places and, therefore, to ensure that people also notice something about it. How does he see that fund? Does he also see the same objections that I believe Mr Futselaar mentioned? Namely, it's not gonna work out when we use that as a little political toy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u81	Sure. I have also listened very carefully to Mr Futselaar's speech and to everything that has been said about it. If you'll allow me, I'll wait for the Minister's response first. You may be able to ask me about it in the second term. I'm gonna sit here, so you can come to me bilaterally right away. I'd like to wait and see how the Minister reflects on it, if you'll allow me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u82	I'm sure I'll allow you to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u83	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u84	I was just wondering what the PVV thought. That fund was also announced in the Millions Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u85	Sure, but you'll find out later, or maybe you won't. Maybe I don't have to say anything about it anymore, but if I don't, I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u86	Thank you. Mr Amhaouch of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u87	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would never call the good Lord Graus a Communist. You'll never hear that from me, Mr. Graus. Either I listen or I don't, I leave that to myself every now and then. Mr. Chairman. Last week, the Advisory Council on Science, Technology and Innovation, the AWTI, concluded that the Netherlands is slowly losing its top position with regard to key technologies. Now we are still leading the way, but the lack of public investment threatens us to decline. So this growth letter is not coming too soon, and hopefully not too late. Surely if we do nothing, we will not only lose our high-tech position, but we will lose our earning power in the long run and our talent will leave. In our society, everything is intertwined with everything. International developments have consequences in our own country or region much faster than before. Take migration, for example, which is not mentioned remarkably enough in this letter. With a growing world population, emerging economies and pressure on the level playing field, it is important to keep bread on the shelf as the Netherlands for the future. Those who believe that today's welfare level is a guarantee for the future, I ask to wake up. Fortunately, we live in a beautiful country, in which collaboration, entrepreneurial spirit, curiosity, innovative power and talent promotion have been the characteristics of the Netherlands deltaland and the Netherlands makenland for centuries. Prosperity, care, renewal and freedom are the inheritances that our parents and grandparents have left us. If we want to pass that legacy on to the next generation, it will require maintenance and, in line with the growth letter, targeted investment. Otherwise, our current prosperity will no longer be sustainable and we will run against the limits of our existence. To avoid this, more is needed than just targeted investment in future technologies. No technological innovation without social innovation. No sustainable economic growth without human bloom. And so we also need to invest in developing things like a lifetime. Ageing and large staff shortages in, among others, health care and engineering make such investments even more urgent. If we are to be able to make the leap from the growth letter, we need the whole of the Netherlands, by Rhineland model, not only at national level, but above all at regional level as far as we are concerned. Each region, from Groningen to Limburg, from Zeeland to Overijssel, is unique. It is precisely in this diversity that the power of the Netherlands lies. Let us not forget the border regions. Seven of the twelve provinces border on Germany or Belgium. Here we see plenty of opportunities for cross-border cooperation and investment in cross-border ecosystems, for example in the fields of energy or circular economy. If we use the right investments to enable each region to do what it is best at, to rise above itself and to make a regional scale leap, we will lift our country as a whole to a higher level and secure our earning capacity. Is the Minister prepared to give the regional scale leaps a place in the development and roll-out of the growth strategy? I would like a commitment, also to prevent investment from only those countries where they make the most of it in the short term. In the six domains chosen, the CDA recognizes a number of challenges facing the Netherlands, but she knows that the crux is mainly in the elaboration. It is a crucial issue, and for us it is certainly a subject of debate and discussion by the trade ministers. Talking about the impact, I come to the investment fund, also known as the Wopke-Wiebes Fund. The growth letter tells us what and why, and the fund tells us how. We are going to talk about the fund in detail, in particular about the conditions under which funding from the fund is possible. This applies to the CDA: whoever doesn't honor the little one doesn't fight the big one. SMEs must be the norm, because without SMEs it is impossible to increase the income model of the Netherlands. Does the Minister agree with the CDA? Finally, Mr President. For the CDA, the choices from the letter and the investments from the fund are crucial for our future, for an economy that is both competitive and sustainable, for sufficient money in everyone's wallet and above all to ensure the collective provision for our children for the coming decades, such as education, medical care and street safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u88	I admire how Mr Amhaouch storms open doors, but my question is as follows. My reproach towards him is basically a little bit what I also blame the government, namely that I hear reflections about the distant future, but what should happen here and now? Look at the problems in education. There are kids at school right now. You can't write down in a letter that the education should be top and that we should take it to a higher level? There are children at school right now, and we have a minister of education who says: well, some extra money should be provided by a next cabinet. What does the CDA really have to offer education at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u89	Mr Moorlag is normally very positive, but he is a little sour today and has a bit of a sour tone. I regret that, because this letter is heading for the future. We also need to get away from the current problem. You shouldn't just hang on to what's not going well today. That's what we talk about every day. We talk about the problems in today's care every day. We're talking about today's education problems. We're talking about the problems in the labour shortage. This letter gives a glimpse into the future. That's what we need to invest in. How do we retain the income of the Netherlands today? That's step one towards the future. How do we keep that, with everything that's happening in the world? That's not self-evident. And how do we make that something bigger, to also pay our collective costs towards the future? A number of directions or compass areas are indicated. I agree with you that these are not equally concrete in all areas. But we still have room to discuss that properly. But don't say: we have the problems today and it's all a little wishful thinking towards the future. Come on, let's be a little positive. This cabinet is making money out of it, billions, but for good things, to secure our income towards the future and, above all, our collective provision, for that policeman on the street, for safety in the street, for the people in care, for our young people in education. Let's take a break from today, but let's also see how we can guarantee that in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u90	First of all, let's talk about my state of mind. I'm not sour. I'm by nature a cheerful person. I'm a little disgruntled, though. I'm just being honest with you, including Groningen. The Groningen word for that is "frantig." Then you're a little annoyed, a little disgruntled. I have already said that such a letter would be fair in the first year of government, but we have been on the road for three years now. I've heard warm words about education. But to all those people who are currently in education, I find it rather embarrassing, to be honest, that there are all kinds of things about education, but that in the here and now there is no urgency in the letter and that there is no urgency in the cabinet to deal with the current problems in education. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u91	If Mr Moorlag of the PvdA is going to say that this cabinet is not doing anything about the current problems... If you look at the budgets of each year how many hundreds of millions more, or billions more, we have put into care and education, then you can't stand here crying that this cabinet doesn't do anything. What we're talking about is that we want extra billions, and we've talked about 50 billion, but I don't care how much. We are indeed talking about the regions. Whether we talk about Groningen or Limburg or Noord-Holland, I don't care. But where can we strengthen the earning model for the Netherlands towards the future? That also fits in with what Mr Van der Lee says. Suppose we have good ideas in those clusters. Suppose we can set up hydrogen, let me give you an example of this with some of the infrastructure that goes with it, with the petrol stations that go with it and with the mobility that goes with it, let us look at it in its entirety. If that fits, and people can judge that well, then you have to judge what that means for the Netherlands in the long term, but also just what that means for the hard rocks in the drawer. If you have good business cases for that, we need to invest in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u92	I'm just trying to take over the stick. That we are still hearing from the cabinet, I assume, but I had understood that myself. I'm just trying to figure out what the CDA wants. I know Mr Amhaouch as a champion of R&D and innovation. In every debate about this, he talks about the 2.5% of GDP that we should invest in R&D. According to the latest figures, we're at 2.2%. So there's a 0.3% gap in GDP. If you calculate that, that's 2.5 billion euros. Is the CDA's commitment now that this gap is filled on a multiannual basis from this investment fund, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u93	What Mr Van der Lee says has been taken from my heart. The CDA has worked hard year by year for that 2.5%. We have tabled several motions on this matter. Two years ago, we said in the budget that we should go to that 2.5%. Business is one of them, and the government is one of them. We need to create that lever. I assume we're talking about key technology, whether it's about AI, nanotechnology or photonics. That is the future of our manufacturing industry, of our Dutch earning model. That's what we need to invest in. So I say "yes, we need to invest in it." Don't pin me down on how much, but it's still an important goal to get that 2.5%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u94	That's a lot of words without a clear answer. The analysis rightly points to the rising costs associated with ageing, care for the elderly, but also the care in general, which is going up to over 100 billion, and the AOW. I find it strange that there is also a mention of defence. I would like to hear a reflection from Mr Amhaouch on that, because I find that rather strange. Then why doesn't it say, for example, the 2.5% that you think is so important? Don't you think that's much more important than assuming on the autopilot that defense charges are increasing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u95	We can do cherrypicking, because it's a long letter from Minister Wiebes. He will be able to explain that himself later. But I stick to the 2.5% foundation, including for the Defense Department, also for care of the elderly. Mr Van der Lee has a point: that 2.5% is an important milestone for us. We need to invest in that. If we invest in these key technologies, in all these things, then we know that the concern for the future is secured, that Defence is secured for the future, that our manufacturing industry is secured for the future and that we are going to increase or at least retain the cake, because that is not self-evident in the dynamic world in which we live.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u96	We're from the same province. For such a debate you always get very wish lists, including from provinces. Our province, Mr. Amhaouch's and mine, only asked to get the Einstein telescope to the south. Would you support that? We would gather a little more together, so we promised the governor; we still have the king's commissioner as governor. You may be able to make a commitment about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u97	Normally, as a citizen of Limburg, I never contradict the governor, but here I have another role to play. Good projects need to be assessed, whether that is the Einstein telescope, the Lelyline or the light rail, because I also get emails about that. We have to look critically, I think that is very important to what is contributing. An Einstein telescope is still difficult to assess exactly how it is going to develop economically, but I think there are risky projects where the government has to look very critically at whether this is feasible. So I am not going to do cherrypicking in all kinds of individual projects here, too, but if today someone would say that without the funds from that fund we cannot make certain scale leaps towards the future, then the Minister, and later the committee that is going to assess it, must check whether it is a real opportunity and whether it does indeed have an added value for the Netherlands in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u98	I can go a long way in Mr Amhaouch's speech, especially when it comes to defending the interests of the regions; that is how I interpret it. I think we can find each other in that. I'm struggling with the process myself a little bit. I would like to know what Mr Amhaouch thinks about that. He says we'll talk about the fund later. The way I read it, we're getting a plan somewhere in this quarter. I am very much struggling with the question of when we can still influence this as a Chamber. Once there's a whole package of "we're gonna do this," as a Chamber, you run the risk that there's not much left to change. I want to know when I can file my motions. I wonder what Mr Amhaouch thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u99	Today we discuss the "what." We're also discussing why we're doing business. I have the debate on Invest-NL... I am now looking at Mr Moorlag, who says that the cabinet is not doing anything. We've already made 1.8 billion available to Invest-NL. Here we are talking about a number of additional billions. If we follow that same line, we will indeed have a debate about the fund and how it is going to operate in the near future. When it comes to state participations, we talk with the Minister of Finance, with the Minister of Policy, about the criteria and the goals. I hope that we will then have another debate together on the criteria, including the colleagues who have Finance in their package. It shouldn't just be cherrypicking and shopping in a minute. I think we should ensure that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u100	Yes, but if you as a Chamber haven't expressed your expectations in advance, you run the risk of getting disappointed. I think Invest-NL is an interesting example. I myself was at the last debate on this. There were a lot of MPs who said it was important for SMEs to participate. Suddenly there is a chairman of the fund who says: for less than 5 million you should not come to me! I do not think that was what part of the Chamber, if not a majority of the Chamber, meant at the time. By this I mean that we must be able to steer fairly at the beginning on the priorities we set. Shouldn't we be doing that tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u101	I didn't bring up Invest-NL myself, but we asked written questions about it. We too were surprised by that. I await the Minister's reply, because he has been very clear. That is why I think it is a good thing that we are debating today and that the Minister is listening. As Mr Graus said, everyone must listen to Mr Graus. The Minister also listens to what the Chamber has to say here today and takes this into account. We will, of course, do the same when we really talk about the investment fund. If the agreements are not fulfilled then we will ask written questions about them again and call the Minister to account if it is not resolved. I think that is also the role that we have as Chamber and as cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u102	I'd like to sacrifice my second interruption for this. I did not say that everyone should listen to me, although that would be desirable! I told you to listen better. We also need to love each other more, Mr. Amhaouch. We need to listen to each other more and love each other more; we need to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u103	I have to confess...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u104	And together fight for the e.g. the Netherlands, together for the Netherlands. We need to get a lot more together. There is far too much party politics here, over the back of the Netherlands, over the backs of the citizens and certainly over the backs of animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u105	Very briefly. Mr Graus mentions two things: better listen to each other and love each other. I must honestly say that listening well is quite difficult, especially as politicians among themselves. Listening to each other well isn't easy. The second is easier: love each other. I love Mr Graus and all my colleagues, so I'm a little easier at that. So the first one is difficult and the second one is a little easier. I hope that Mr Graus will forgive me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u106	I think so. You had come to the end of your speech? Yes. I call Mr Verhoeven of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u107	Thank you, Mr President. How do we keep the Netherlands?Yes, I'm just starting to compete in the world. How do we keep our collective prosperity? That's what today's about. Then we have a national growth strategy and a national growth fund. These are very good plans that the cabinet has announced. It's an important and good idea. I'd like to put it in a slightly broader perspective. A lot is happening in the world. There is blockage and power building: China, the US and the European Union. Africa is also organizing itself. Trade is changing: protectionism and a global tech struggle. There are major challenges in terms of climate, population dynamics and migration. So much is happening. Of course, we need a European approach to this. I will not talk about this for too long, but we need to make that internal market stronger. We need to develop our own powerful innovative tech industry. We must act much more assertively and industrial policy. We need to create a modern EU budget, not the conservative grocery mentality that hangs here in the Chamber, but really dare. Those are just the global and European notes I would like to crack. Then we go to the fund and the letter, because we also have a national responsibility. The focus of society has lately shifted from growing to sharing fairly, and rightly so. There are, of course, too many people who have said that several spokesmen here who do not benefit from it. You have actually said all this: there is too much focus on growth; is that growth going to all people in the Netherlands, middle income and SMEs? That's a fair question. After all, we need growth to maintain our prosperity. This has already been said by a number of people: care, social security, education, safety and pensions. Okay. So it is really necessary that we continue to grow and that we are not afraid of the word "growth." We need growth for the prosperity of the future for everyone. Okay. A growth strategy and a growth fund. We can't wait, Mr. Chairman. We can't wait. I couldn't wait an hour and a half today. I was just listening to all these interruptions. I can't wait for the minister to tell me what else he wants to do. I can't wait until that fund arrives, because that fund is of course a fantastic idea for the Netherlands to really grow. Definitely a motion of the VVD along with D66. The kick-start motion. That was a laughing matter at the time. I remember. In the middle of the night, we had filed a motion about a kickstart. But, of course, we need to speed things up. We need to get the spade in the ground. We've got work to do. Let us not wait any longer, not deliberate for too long, and not commit endless interruptions, but work together. By the way, love, what Mr Graus was talking about, is the hardest thing there is, but at least we have to grab hold of each other and support the e.g. the Netherlands. So please speed up, I'll tell the minister. The spa in the ground. Can he say anything about that in a minute? Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a few points of substance. There are six pillars, including knowledge development, innovation, powerful ecosystems and infrastructure. I believe that it has been said here and there by Mr Moorlag that there is still room for improvement in practical terms, but I also think that was the intention. I'm going to say a few things about it. Talent is the first pillar. Are we going to deal with delays sooner? Let's have kids, students, make a choice later, so we can make much better use of their talents? Are we going to invest more in science confused on talent? That's question one about talent. Two: Lifelong learning. There is a division between scientific education and secondary vocational education. The first group receives much more money from the government in its learning development, while the second group is much more in need of lifelong learning. There is talk of R&D funds, but they do not seem to be a solution at all. So my question to the Minister is: are we going to think about a right of learning and are we going to work towards a personal learning pool so that everyone can start saving for their development? Three: participation. Of course, people must have a real free choice to participate or not participate or part of it. The Netherlands has a part-time culture and a glass ceiling, so are we really going to take care of that free choice? Are we going to make any changes at the reception, leave and glass ceiling that are needed? That is actually the third point. And are we going to dare to change the atmosphere around labour migration in this country? Four: innovation. The Dutch disease is: dare not choose anything. So that's all we want, while, of course, we have to make choices based on the question: what are we too dependent on internationally and what are we national super good at? So are we really gonna opt for artificial intelligence, quantum, nanotech and biotech, or are we gonna spread out again and make it look too much like the top sectors of the past? That was the fourth question. Five: accessibility. Yeah, I can only say one word about that, and that's ambition. We have an Infrastructure Fund and an MIRT. We all have local and regional projects. But I would say: are we going to create really large scale jumps with the North/South line, with light rail and hyperloop, as is always mentioned here? When are we gonna start doing that? And finally, the transition, Mr. Chairman. There is already a transition in the Chamber, because the VVD is without tie and GroenLinks is with 3D and tie, so there is a transition taking place. So obviously we can find each other and we can take steps in the nitrogen crisis and the energy crisis. But are we going to ensure that the circular economy, circular agriculture, farming meat, electric flies and that sort of thing is really being done? That's it for now, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. I see there are some interruptions, but I think they can be answered briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u108	Shall I just give someone the floor? Then we'll see. Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u109	The fact that Mr Verhoeven is so committed to lifelong learning is something I am very concerned about. My question is about infrastructure. What does Mr Verhoeven think of the connection of the Netherlands to the European HSL network? Soon we will be able to catch the train to London for four hours and ten minutes in my view. This results in a two-hour travel time saving compared to the car. Within the Netherlands I mention my own journey, towards Groningen.The journey time by train is longer than by car. Shouldn't you internationally connect the Netherlands much better to the HSL networks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u110	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u111	That's the answer? Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u112	Then I think that is a valuable addition to the points raised by Mr Verhoeven. I also hope that he will support this motion on the part of the Labour Party in the second term, or rather next week at the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u113	Well, Mr President, that depends purely on the wording.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u114	That was a nice speech by Mr Verhoeven: pace, pace, pace. I would like to point out that the careful one is also important. It's all community money. We should not set the pace in the future rather than assess the quality of the projects. But what matters to me is this. Mr Verhoeven talked about the old top sectors policy. In this cabinet period we have new top sectors policy, mission-driven top sectors policy. How does Mr Verhoeven see that this new mission-driven top sectors policy is in line with this economic growth letter? Is that supposed to fit a little into that line, or is this going to run counter to it? How could mission-driven top-level sector policy be integrated into this whole?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u115	Pillars 4 and 6. Pillar 6 is transition. Societal challenges are at the heart of the new top sectors policy, according to the government agreement. I have said for many years that these top sectors were nine tubes, as we do not want them to be. They were driven by a number of former business leaders: no innovation and no involvement of SMEs, at least too little, but a good cooperation structure. So let us maintain the structure of cooperation and set it up in a new way, namely through societal challenges and key technologies. We came up with that together as coalition parties. That is 4, supplemented by some of the transitions that I also see as societal challenges: population dynamics, ageing and health care. Let us put it at the centre and then try to bring Dutch solutions to the global problems to the best of our ability. I therefore believe that pillars 4 and 6 together lead to the answer to Mr Amhaouch's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u116	We have several top sectors with societal challenges. That could be the source, right? I'm not saying "must be," but "may be" to get those good projects out of hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u117	No. The nine old top sectors really need to be demolished and the societal challenges, four or five societal challenges, should be at the heart of the agenda. I have nothing against the cooperation structure in the top sectors, but they have been leading too long when the societal challenges should be leading. I've been saying that for ten years, so that shouldn't surprise Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u118	I find it very strange what is happening here, because we have established the mission-driven top sectors policy here together. That would be the line. Before we go to the performance, we get a bit stuck in the mud. That's a little my aftertaste.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u119	No, we're not stuck in the mud. We need to put developments in the world at the centre and not nine groups that we put together under the leadership of Minister Verhagen ten years ago. I have been saying this for ten years, and I will continue to say that for ten years until they really fit in with the new way of stimulating innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u120	I was glad that Mr Verhoeven indicated that loving is a very difficult thing, especially between D66 and the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u121	Well, that's where it goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u122	I was going to say that it is a bit difficult, but when I see Mr Verhoeven standing, I actually always like him. Anyway, that's not my question, of course. He was talking about that spa in the ground, and then I thought, "Well, there's a story about what we're doing that spa in the ground right now," but I didn't actually hear it. Do you think he could tell me what that spa's supposed to be for as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u123	I will not say, when we look back at the film of this debate, that I was the most concrete, but in all six areas mentioned in the letter, I have tried to mention the frameworks, which I think are very well directed. In all six divisions, so to speak. Spa in the ground is perhaps best to associate with pillar 5, infrastructure. I think, for example, that is what my party leader also said at the General Political Reviews on the continuation of the North/South line and light rail. I would also like to take a serious look at the proposal just made by Mr Moorlag. Hyper-loop! Hyper-loop! Big special boost infra-projects. But I am also very much in favour of investing more in large programmes in the field of artificial intelligence and quantum technology, in which China and the US are much more advanced, and so I can go on. I do have concrete ideas for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u124	Now I see where the misunderstanding is. At spa in the ground, I think we'll start building tomorrow. But this kind of thing means: studying hard over the next few years and then hoping that we can come to good things that we can realize in a number of years. I think we agree with each other, though, and I say this through the President to Mr Verhoeven, that you cannot put the spa in the ground tomorrow. That really means thinking and studying over the next few years. In that case, the investment fund will only be needed in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u125	No, no. That is absolutely not the intention as far as I am concerned. I don't choose the metaphor "spa in the ground" because I think there should be study. The Minister has studied himself, and he has also talked about this letter with all kinds of people who have a certain degree of economic and financial expertise. As far as I am concerned, the study phase is now complete. There is a guiding framework and there is a great ambition to set up a fund. The Minister for Finance, together with the Minister for Economic Affairs, has made a big deal of this. And rightly so, because it is absolutely a good idea to set up this fund on the basis of a good economic framework and to build the Netherlands. The Netherlands must be pushed into the global economy, where we simply have an incredible chance, but where we are also vulnerable. That is why it is now a good idea to actually shape this growth fund. As far as I'm concerned, we're not going to study endlessly. Definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u126	I appreciate that Mr Verhoeven is almost 'light-footed' and I appreciate his enthusiasm. He also mentioned migration, labour migration. I'm looking for what he means by that point. We are, of course, discussing migration in the Netherlands and we are also discussing the pressure that migration places on important collective facilities and on collective burdens. After all, we have to pay for care and education together. Does Mr Verhoeven agree with me that it is also part of the earning power that we have in our policy and also make clearer choices about who does and who does not contribute to the earning capacity of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u127	I do know that there must be certain clear rules and perspectives for people who can or cannot come here to work here, or for people who have to flee for their lives. I know. But I also care about the atmosphere. There is now an atmosphere in the Netherlands, and certain talents from all kinds of different parts of the world do not come to the Netherlands because that particular atmosphere hangs here. That's an atmosphere we shouldn't have. So we should also be open to people who come to work here, for example from other parts of Europe or other parts of the world. These people have a lot to add, where we have shortages. We shouldn't be afraid of these people. There is often an atmosphere of fear here in the Chamber. You'll find them in a lot of parties. My group chairman said a while ago: you should look much more openly at labour migration from Eastern Europe. There was a very strong reaction to that in the atmosphere where they said: that is not good. If you ask business and science, they say: we are not only losing our own people, but we can also bring fewer and fewer people here, when that is necessary. So I want an open and relaxed debate on migration. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u128	That's all fine. At the same time, there are still people on the side of the Netherlands who would like to work and for whom we also have a lot of work. So I hope that Mr Verhoeven wants to work especially for those people, to help them get in the way. But I also specifically asked about migration, also because it is just about demographic development. It is predicted that the number of people in the Netherlands is just going to grow significantly. At the General Political Reviews, the Dijkhoff motion was adopted, asking for research into these demographic developments. He's in the second phase now, too. Does Mr Verhoeven agree with me that it would also be good if the Minister for Economic Affairs interfered in that discussion? Would it be appropriate to look at promising policies to ensure that this discussion is conducted properly, so that this pressure on the facilities does not become unnecessary? It is precisely the companies that are waiting for these great talents, for example in technology, that we have to help in a targeted way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u129	A little shorter, Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u130	But we do need to make clearer choices than we actually do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u131	Mr President, I would like to say the following. I understand that point very well and I also understand that it is a search for a healthy balance. I like to think about that in a sensible way. But some of my fellow Members have said: we are short, we are short-handed here and we have too few hands there. Mr Moorlag even used the term'selective growth'. It would be necessary because we can't make it all strong. I regularly talk to the business community and I see Mr Wiersma talking to the business community. I'm talking to science, too. And people from those sectors keep telling me the same story: we can't find people anymore. There aren't so many people who can't get to work right now. They're definitely still there, but they're fewer than they've been in decades. Unemployment is really incredibly low. So we shouldn't pretend that business isn't jumping at people. And when you ask the business community, they say: let some people also come from Eastern Europe, from Asia, from southern Europe. There are a lot of young people with a lot of talent at home. There's a 15% youth unemployment there. We should not pretend that we cannot use these people here in the Netherlands. We should not pretend that the arrival of these people would lead to displacement into the labour market. Because at the moment the economy is such that it is not. I do not know what Mr Moorlag is saying now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u132	Don't be distracted. Were you at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u133	Sure, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u134	Thank you. Mr Stoffer has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u135	Mr. Chairman. It's a growth letter. I have to tell you, when I took this growth letter to me like that, I got a little bit of a picture of the hut spot without sausage. My question to the Minister is whether he really gets excited about that list of many things that I, and he too, probably already knew? Actually, I'm asking him if he can indicate in a few clear sentences how he sees the future. 'Cause I'm not getting that out of this letter yet. But that doesn't mean that we really need to think about our future. We should not just be guided by strong growth rates, because welfare is not caught in numbers. I think it is very nice that that is in the growth letter at least. I also think it is very nice that family care, unpaid work and care tasks are explicitly mentioned in the family or for the relatives and that the cabinet is not going to interfere in the legitimate personal choices about participation in the labour market. On the other hand, we must not discourage workers from going to work more, as the letter says. Well, then there's still some work to be done. Because at the moment, my reading really is that government policy partly determines that work-private balance sheet. I am thinking of the single-earners, the working discount, the subsidising of childcare, and so on. More work is not really stimulated by this high marginal pressure. I would very much like to hear from the Minister how he and his colleagues are going to make these changes happen. Mr. Chairman. For sustainable economic growth, we need the whole of the Netherlands, not only the Randstad, but also the region outside. My colleague from the CDA has just, fortunately, heard good things about this. Let me also mention positive things, because on a number of things we are quite positive: the SGP is really positive about the current Regional Deals of this cabinet. They provide opportunities for the regions. Investment in regional employment, infrastructure, activity and innovation is essential. Also in order to solve the housing shortage in the Netherlands we have to build in the regions. Good facilities are therefore also necessary. It is good that, for example, the possibilities for the Lely line, the train connection to the north, are also explored. Unlike Mr Verhoeven, I think that research... It's gonna be a while before you come to a decision and really put that spa in the ground. But with him, I hope it's as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. The growth letter also mentions improving accessibility as an action point. However, I do miss the attention given to the region. If I'm talking about the region, I really need to specify myself. I mean the countryside and also the villages where people live. The cabinet will focus on improving and climate-proofing the current infrastructure in and around the cities. But my question to the Minister is: how are you going to make the connection between the countryside and the cities? Because it really needs to be improved to help this country to move forward in its entirety. Mr. Chairman. If I'm talking about traffic, I'm gonna take one of the things that's been driving me around here my whole life. This traffic results in accidents, the social costs of which are enormous. According to the Knowledge Institute for Mobility Policy, this amounts to as much as 17 billion in 2018. The substantial reduction of road victims requires an investment of around 15 billion over the next 30 years. I've been talking to the Minister of Infrastructure. He says: I don't have a money tree; it doesn't work. So I'm trying to do it here now. If we invest half a billion dollars a year, we can save much of that 17 billion social costs. In fact, of course, there are people's lives behind that. If you don't have those road accidents, there's also the happiness of a healthy body. So I would say, if you look at it that way, isn't that a very good investment and easy money? The CPB also says that these investments in road safety are extremely profitable. Hence my question to this Minister: will you, with your colleague from IenW, also invest heavily in road safety? Finally, the investment fund. I still have some doubts and questions about that. I'm not very negative in advance, but I'm really seeing a number of things that I think are going to happen later. Isn't that, for example, a game from which virtually everything can be financed, without us as a Chamber still having control over it? Because I wouldn't want to. And why should investments be financed from a fund with borrowed money and not just through the normal budget? Why don't we make sure we get what we have first before we invest in all kinds of new big projects? Indeed, there is a huge housing statement, an energy transition that costs a lot of money, and infrastructure that really needs maintenance or needs replacement. If this need for investment is so great, why hasn't there been much investment in these things in recent years? Mr President, my last sentence, because I am on time, I see. I hope that the Minister will be able to make me a little more enthusiastic about this fund by answering the questions I have just put down. Because with the letter and the content for the fund as it stands, for me it is still a bit that hutspot without sausage, and I generally don't like that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u136	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Finally, Mr Van Otterloo of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u137	Mr. Chairman. If you do not know what this debate is about, then the various contributions could put you on a very wrong track. In that respect, I feel a bit weird, because I'm going to be the last to speak and maybe people should be disappointed that I'm not going to talk about one-nightstands, about love and that sort of thing, but really about what this letter contains. Unfortunately, however, this letter does not contain so much concrete. It's also a letter about the future. In this respect, we think it is right that this growth letter focuses on human beings in four of the six main areas of concern. I heard it in colleagues' contributions more about where the money should go, such as innovation funds and infrastructure, but I think it's mainly about people and how with the amounts available and with our efforts, we make sure that economic growth is achieved, because economic growth is human work. The most important thing is, I think, lifelong learning. Some of my colleagues have already said it. People must be allowed their whole lives to contribute to society, a contribution they want to shape themselves. But especially in times of very rapid technological developments, in which people need to keep up with knowledge, it is about promoting sustainable employability, not least in order to maintain their motivation. The government itself states that the necessary learning culture is still not present at the moment. But that's up to the government itself. We ourselves, as politicians, have lost a lot of effort in recent years. It has just been suggested that Mr Borstlap, because of the report he has produced, and Mr Remkes, because of the report he has produced, should only be appointed directors, but it is important that we do not need other people to be able to see for ourselves that we have reasonably derailed the economy when it comes to cohesion, when it comes to cohesion in income. People stay behind. But it is also important that the culture that used to exist, in which employers themselves are committed to providing their employees with sufficient knowledge, has unfortunately been lost in recent years by flexible contracts andzzp-structures. In particular, price competition at the bottom of the labour market has been ensured and there is no focus on a learning culture. Now employers are in great need of it. Now there is also a need for lifelong learning. We say: a first step is the STEP budget, but that is far from it. That is precisely what a significant part of the government's contribution to developing the growth potential of society should be, because one can say that everyone has to work more, but it must also be possible with the commitment that can be made. In this respect, a new model should also be imposed on society, which in many cases may be similar to the old one, namely a number of more collective provisions designed to improve the functioning of individual people and not to saddle people with all kinds of choices. Finally, Mr President. What is very important is that care in all doom scenarios is blamed for going bad in the future. But we're an innovation country. In that respect, I would like to refer to a contribution that I happened to see this morning at Skipr, where a number of people looked back on what they predicted ten years ago for innovative developments in healthcare. I have to say that that is a great disappointment. Care is human work in many cases. It is precisely there that we see a shortage of hands, but also a shortage of innovative developments. It's not just about medicine and stuff. We must also ensure that workers, carers and carers are supported to solve the questions of the future, because if investment is justified somewhere and is socially profitable, then it is at this point. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u138	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting. Then we're gonna listen to the minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u139	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u140	Mr President, thank you. It was a pleasure listening to the Chamber from this place. I do not know if I have done well, but your investment proposals already add up to, I think, over 80 billion during this debate. But that is not the interesting thing, because in the end we have to choose, and we are doing so to an important extent here. What I wanted to try is first to answer some general questions and respond to some of the things that have been said. Then I try to link the comments of the various spokesmen here to each of the six themes. Then I'm gonna walk through these themes. After that there were a number of questions, but certainly also suggestions, about the follow-up. Because I wrote in the letter that this is the beginning of a trajectory, so a legitimate question is what that trajectory looks like and what the sequel is. But let us now turn to this growth strategy. I read about a week ago, you also read about Klaas Knot giving our economy a 9. Then it is clear that our Klaas only checked our economic test, and I think we would have gotten a less beautiful grade for biology. Moreover, if we asked the same Klaas Knot in five years' time, at least the prediction of the CPB would be that he would not give 9 more. Here are the two issues. They're important, because it's about prosperity. We have quite rightly had a lot of debates in this Chamber on the use of wealth and its distribution, but we have very little talk here about building up and creating that prosperity. It is, of course, the duty of government and parliament to address each other in the way in which we create our prosperity, the extent to which we succeed and the extent to which we consider it desirable. Let me then respond immediately to the discussion that is taking place here in this Chamber, but not in the rest of the Netherlands. Is it about money or broad prosperity? There is no Dutchman who is not concerned with broad prosperity. We are a country in which everyone is extremely attached to very good care and a pleasant environment. Once I was responsible for bus stops, and if I took away a bus stop or just placed one, it had a direct impact on the environment. The Dutch are committed to broad prosperity, including road safety, other types of safety, nature and social security. We want an isolated and comfortable house, we don't want to be in traffic, we want legal certainty, we want a legal system, we want broad prosperity. So that's what it's always about. But that does not mean that every discussion is also about all aspects of this broad prosperity. Because within broad prosperity, and in order to guarantee that broad prosperity, earning power is also important. The strategy letter deals with the aspect of earning ability, but explicitly in the context of wider prosperity. Because otherwise it's nonsensical. Of course, it is tempting to ask about all other welfare aspects in a letter on earning ability. Which I find remarkable. I understand and I also expected that a letter on earning ability would also ask about the other aspects of broad prosperity, but I also expected that when the Climate Agreement, which is about another aspect of broad prosperity, would raise questions about earning power, but they did not. I didn't like that. But we are talking about that one aspect, but we are also talking about broad prosperity in every sense. That prosperity and that economy, but also that earning capacity, are not primarily about money, as far as I am concerned. Money's a pretty uninteresting bargaining chip. Economists like it, and it's not interesting for anyone else. Economy and prosperity are about what we do for each other voluntarily, without knowing each other. It is a sum of everything we do to make this country beautiful, strong and pleasant. That's the economy. I mean, the level of prosperity affects all of us. No one is interested in economics and prosperity; they happen to be a few people, and you are one of them, and I like to talk to you. But on the Malieveld, it's about prosperity in a different way. It's about what people have to spend, what it's spent on, how they think the country's going. That's all about prosperity. So that's what matters. This includes everything we do with our prosperity: from the social safety nets to the extent to which, so to speak, we have to solve today's problems. So there are two things going on with that prosperity. We bring forth that prosperity in a way that can no longer be done. We can't go through with this. I do not want to play club of Rome, because then it was the thought that we could never change that; I am assuming that we can change it. But what is always on the agenda is that we must change it now. Nitrogen, greenhouse gases, phosphates: the molecules are flying around us. So this has to be different, and my point is that we only have support for prosperity if we can produce it in another way. At the same time, the second problem is real: that is the extent of prosperity. For we are going to a period of very moderate economic growth, while the costs of our collective arrangements are rising more rapidly than ever before. The Dutch like their collective arrangements. We want the best care, we want the social safety nets and we want the old age assured. Whether you put the rest into ambitions or necessities like Defence or into something with space or whatever: they are all legitimate wishes of Dutch people. If we keep this moderate growth, we just or just don't have enough for these collective arrangements. Then there should be no one wish, and for households nothing remains. My point is that the share that households receive also matters. People at home want to decide for themselves what to do with their share of that extra prosperity. That is what Mr Futselaar told me. He looks at me angry all the time, but I agree. We have been in the past ten years, or actually since 2002 because my benchmark has always had a period after the dotcom crisis, when we first fell into a deep pit as a result of a debt crisis. Now we are slightly higher than in 2002 in terms of households, while prosperity has grown enormously. All this has gone to collective arrangements. That really was the top three of almost every election programme. So we all found it useful. We all thought it needed to be in care, we all felt that old age should be guaranteed, and we all felt that there should be sound public finances. We have all written that down; those were useful goals. I am not doing anything about it retroactively, but it is true that the households have not noticed much of it. Rutte II and III were given a certain catch-up, but also helped by the growth of world trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u141	Much of what the minister says here is correct. If you read the Rabobank report, for example, you can look back 30 to 40 years in which households have barely improved. It is just not right to say that it has all gone to collective provision. It is true that other parts of the company...... have also received a larger share of the cake. I think you should take that into consideration. Does the Minister see that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u142	No. I can't see that without a second thought. According to the CPB, that is certainly not correct. If we withdraw the series until 1995, we are even above the long-term average in the labour income ratio. There have been times when it was higher. In the second half of the 1970s and early 1980s we had a period when the AIQ was really much higher, but that was also the period when we had a major problem with wage moderation, that unemployment was very high and that we had Bestek'81. Those were tough times. We didn't like the high AIQ. The AIQ now is not only equal to that of 1995 but also to that of 1970. We don't have an exceptionally high AIQ. Depending on what period you take and depending on which sectors you pull out, you can see fluctuations up or down. But I recognize that there is something going on around the world. I dare to say that the Netherlands has escaped this to a sufficient extent. At the same time we have to keep an eye on this, because we want the Dutch at home to notice something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u143	By adjusting periods, you can easily settle facts to what suits you best.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u144	But I'm sticking to the CPB; I'm just sticking to the CPB.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u145	I only note that the famous socialist institute de Rabobank said in a report a little over two years ago: we also see this labour income ratio falling slowly; that is a trend that we see worldwide, but also in the Netherlands. Then you can insist that all this has gone to the collective arrangements and yes, of course the government has also been given a share, but the company profits have also had a heyday. The distributions to shareholders, of which a large part lives abroad, fortunately we have a dividend tax on.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then you must note that some of the prosperity has gone there as well. Then you shouldn't get out of the conversation about whether we should have a shift in that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u146	This cabinet seems to have wanted to have a certain shift in this direction, because the burdens on businesses have been increased and those on households have been reduced. But I am sticking to the CPB for a moment and I would ask Mr Futselaar to study, like me, the long-term series of the CPB. This does not show a systematic decline in the AIQ, but we do share the concern, because households have to notice something about it. We agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u147	Also because we talk so little about the ability of the Netherlands to earn money, I will pick up the glove, also because the minister himself is talking about the CPB. Then I have to think again of a former CPB director and of the discussion on whether the choices made during the financial crisis have been sensible. Haven't we done extra violence to our growth potential, our earning ability? I mean, in the European Union, we have the only substantial economy with public debt below 50%. That's great, but we could have done something else. We might have had a bigger economy. In fact, that would certainly have been the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u148	Sure, but I'm not gonna be Mr Teuling's reviewer. I always read what he writes with great interest. I'm not gonna back down, comment on that. I'm just saying that we can see ahead now. Then I note that the very low public debt at least enables us to start with this period of low interest rates, in fact, something like an investment fund. Italy, I believe, has a 130% public debt. I can also mention other countries, but then it gets a little freestyling out of mind and sometimes you do someone short. But the Netherlands does indeed have one of the lowest public debt among the Western European countries. That also enables us to do a lot. Looking ahead, I think we should do something with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u149	I am not concerned that the Minister should review Mr Teulings here. Moreover, Mr Teulings is not alone at all. There's a whole school of economists who share that criticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u150	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u151	The Dutch State has unnecessarily driven the recession while at that time it should have invested a little more. Just look at the construction sector and the enormous problems we now have in the housing market thanks to the choices made at that time. But my point is actually this. This investment fund is, in fact, implicitly a recognition that was right at the time. This cabinet has opted for a far too conservative financial policy. Now a kind of correction is being applied in the aftermath of this cabinet with this investment fund, but this has also resulted in a selection of what you are going to invest in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u152	Sure, it always is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u153	If we had a larger economy, we could have invested more broadly in current expenditure. Now we're gonna be stuck with this vehicle. We are going to talk about what may or may not be financed out of it, but that hinders us in our freedom of choice in relation to another course during that recession. If we had invested more then, we would have had a bigger economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u154	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u155	Well, good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u156	Those are past reflections. If we are going to organise a debate on how we have done this in the past and what the various economists say about it, then I will also speak there. Now it's up to me to stand here. We have the blessings of low public debt. We now have very high growth, by the way, higher than many countries that have followed a different strategy. It's about how from now on we're gonna make sure that over the next 30 years, too, that the earning capacity is high enough to live up to the ambitions of all those Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u157	I share the Minister's analysis that the forecast is that the growth path will be at a structurally lower level than we have been used to in recent decades. But could you not increase the growth and earning capacity of our economy by increasing the level of education? Then there are two buttons that we can turn. Firstly, we can simply ensure that regular initial education is of a high level. Secondly, we can give access to training facilities to all those people who are locked up in poorly paid jobs and who have little access to training facilities, so that they can do more quality work with more added value for our economy. Does the Minister share that analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u158	In a debate like this, which is already about everything, it is always very complicated to talk one by one about everything and not about everything at the same time. So I wanted to try to take up the training questions half of the six points is about knowledge in my second block. In essence, I think my answer to Mr Moorlag's question would be yes at the highest level of abstraction, but let me run through the six points later. Then comes foundational education, but also a lifelong development. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u159	Yeah? We'll just wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u160	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u161	And then we don't count this as interrupting; don't worry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u162	And if I fail Mr Moorlag, he will point that out to me. I would like to go back one more time, and I will not do that too often, because then it will be extremely annoying to the coalition agreement. Because there is something at the heart of this coalition's conviction, but also its commitment. That is why the necessary sustainability of this economy, but also the necessary economic growth, must go hand in hand, that it is and-and-is. And it's not gonna happen by itself. The Climate Agreement also proves that it is not self-evident; there are a lot of measures in it. But it has to be both. That is a disappointment to those who only wanted to bet on one of those things, and at the same time it may be tough to those who think that it can't go together, but this is an explicit commitment. We don't escape the fact that it has to and-and. And that thought lives in the entire coalition. You hear that a bit in the debate, but you can also see it in the coalition agreement. In it are coalition parties who say all this in a different way but mean all the same by it. One calls it "the purchasing power of the working Dutchman" or "the incomes of the middle class." The other calls it "good life" and "to pass the earth on to future generations." Another one talks about "reform, innovation and courage." But we mean the same thing, namely that earning power is also needed, but another type of earning power is needed to make this a fantastic country for our later generations as well. There's a lot of work to be done on that and it's not going to happen on its own. Greening is not self-evident and economic growth is not self-evident. Bon. That is why we have a growth strategy. Mr Moorlag did not ask me, but he did say it to the interrupting microphone: well, I think this is more a matter for the beginning of a cabinet period. Yeah, that would've been possible, too. That would have been my preference too, the beginning of a cabinet period. Let me put it this way: the previous cabinet, of which I myself was a member, had not prepared it. That's what we're trying to fix now. But I have also heard from Mr Moorlag and his colleagues several times that the cabinet would have been ruled out, and now I am going to do something useful in half, and now it is not good again. I therefore ask him, with the positivism that I know of him, to look as closely as possible at what we can do in this cabinet period, but also what we can necessarily do only very well prepare and prepare for a next cabinet. Then we all do something useful and that is interesting for everyone, because of course everyone always has a certain chance to get into a next cabinet so we all do it for ourselves. Then there's the strategy. Look, that strategy we have, it didn't come about by stacking all nice ideas together. The number of themes underlying economic growth is effortlessly over 100. There is an extremely good argument that a well-organised legal system, data security, road safety and, on top of that, I come effortlessly above 100.... all are important for economic growth. Is that bullshit? No, that's all true, too. But it's not about what we're doing or what we're supposed to do. It is about the things that we are obviously not doing now and which are still quite complicated and also require some courage from this and subsequent cabinets. Here and there they also ask for funds that we have not yet provided. Those are the six themes. We have turned a lot of economic bookcases for that and we have also gained new insights on board. The new directions of economic knowledge say you should actually look at them that way. We've talked to leading experts in all kinds of areas, and they come up with images that you say I recognize the subject. This subject is not new. Many of you have asked: is that a new subject? No, it's not a new subject, but the direction is bigger than what we've done so far. All sorts of Cabinets have taken small steps in a number of areas, including this cabinet. I've got whole lists on me. So if you're asking for anything, I'm saying we did this and this. But research shows, as these people say, that the small steps are pretty much worked out. You also need to take a few bigger steps. They also say: do this not by terrain, but more holistic, more coordinated. Think of the economy as a chain: if you do not strengthen a link, you either lack knowledge or traffic crashes or your children are not well trained and so on. So it has to be a bit of everything. And it really has to be different. One thing I noticed myself. That is the only point on which I have left my mark more than I could have done on the basis of the economists' input. Five themes came out, but the transitions weren't in it. I don't know if economists are very busy with transitions. I have included them because, in the course of the Climate Agreement, I have come to the belief that the whole transition will be a cost, an uneven playing field and a burden, if we neglect this point. But if we do it right, we are in favour of the others and we are doing it smarter and, at the same time, we recognise that all these transitions are connected, we can win it and we will soon be the location for all kinds of sustainable industries and industries in the world. So I added this. Mr Van der Lee asked whether that would mean that they would be excluded from funds. No, there are three areas in the Millions Note that are now being prioritised. First of all, let me write down the criteria, the governance of this vehicle, together with the Minister of Finance. The review of different types of proposals follows. But I don't rule out anything a priori. Well, we do know the rough contours. It has to be visible about something extra that wouldn't happen otherwise. And it has to be something occasional and not something structural. I think Mr Van der Lee can imagine that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u163	First of all, I am pleased to hear that the Minister personally ensured that this sixth pillar was added. I must honestly say that I could not have imagined a good strategy without those transitions, but that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u164	Bon!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u165	But what matters now is precisely what is put on paper. I can remember the debate with Minister Hoekstra vividly, because I was there. Every word in the sense of the investment fund has been fought. Every word is there as it is intended, nothing more and nothing less. Those are the words of the Minister of Finance. Now I'm reading this letter. Then two pillars explicitly mention that these areas are eligible for what is understood in the Millions Note by the Investment Fund and the other four are not. The way in which the Minister of Finance deals with this raises my distrust. I'd like to believe this minister. He says he also means "a bit wider" to him. We have six pillars, so projects from all these pillars can actually be covered by the investment fund. That's what I hear him say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u166	No, I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u167	That's exactly what this is about. What's the deal here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u168	I'll try to answer that. If the letter states that there are only two areas in which an investment vehicle could be useful, it is either a mistake of mine in writing or a mistake of Mr Van der Lee reading. In the development of talent in basic education, investments with a major impact on economic development are conceivable, but they are of an occasional nature. This is in the field of innovation and basic research and the whole ecosystem of knowledge development, idem. This is also a point in terms of accessibility infrastructure, but also in terms of accessibility vehicles other than transport infrastructure. That has already been mentioned in the Millions Note. But that doesn't rule out other things. The only thing that can rule things out is those criteria that are now being developed. In the first quarter there will be a letter about this. It contains the criteria, as well as the governance and the way in which this should work. There, parties, other than governments, can examine their ideas and their proposals. That's how I want to do it, but that doesn't mean I'm gonna embrace things now. I am not going to rule things out either, other than that it cannot be structural and not a regular policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u169	I find this problematic because I read it very well. I've read it again three times. There is a literally identical sentence under the heading "What will the government do" in the fourth pillar and the fifth pillar. That sentence is not under the heading "what is the government going to do" in the other four pillars. Bearing in mind the words of the Minister of Finance, that he was trying very hard to make what could be covered by that investment fund, but above all what was not, because he is very concerned that everything we want here is going to be covered by that fund, that makes me not satisfied. I want clarity as to whether investment projects from those other four pillars can qualify for that investment fund, yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u170	They must all be assessed against the criteria. Some of these six points are more obvious than others. I'm not embracing proposals right now, and I'm not rejecting anything. We come up with the criteria and then Mr Van der Lee and I can, together with that paper in front of us, try to estimate what will or will not be covered. I do not rule out anything, other than that we already know, because that has already been communicated, that it cannot be about structural or regular expenditure. There was another lesson and it is also important, because there is in a way a small distance from how we have done it so far. We realise that a greater role of government is needed, including in the direction. When managing a transition across sectors alone, the main role of the parties going through this transition is the government. Technology is also becoming more important. Other countries, continents and power blocks are shielding their technology more. That also leads us to think differently about our technology. Spatial integration is becoming a major issue. There, too, more government direction is obvious. So there's more government in the soup we're about to eat, including in the field of investment. We have to recognize, fundamentally, that in the coming decades the government will have to do more to address a number of things that we have always found public interests, but with a smaller budget, such as knowledge building and the development of research. That could also be in all kinds of new types of infrastructure. The role of a government is necessarily increasing, not because we choose ideologically, but because we see that this is necessary. I will go over these six themes in a moment, but before I get to that, perhaps a few words about that investment fund. That is not part of this debate. In the first quarter, I will try to send a letter on this with the Minister of Finance, which makes it clear how projects and investment proposals are selected, how they are judged, who they are judged and what timelines they contain. It is also important that we are already trying to honour a number of important major proposals in this cabinet period, but only if they are very good proposals. Because in all honesty: the number of proposals that have been put forward here, which I quickly added to 80 billion, shows that there is a great deal of interest. The mailbox is filling up. This means that if something is being accepted, it must also be a very good proposal; not only a good idea, but also its effect must be good. We need to set up a standard setup. We shouldn't be FES. A question has been asked about it and I will answer it separately later, but we should not fall into traps from the past. Well, that means I'm not gonna honor any projects right now, but I'm not gonna reject them either. And, of course, what this is not really about, and that is why I will not be able to answer all the questions later either: the whole discussion about the growth strategy and the discussion about the fund are not intended for today's political questions. Today's political questions must be resolved by the government, in consultation with Parliament. You can all be satisfied or not satisfied with that, but we must do so now. That's regular policy. We are now working for the generation of the next 30 years. That's about these six things, but not about some things that are going on right now. And they are no less important, they must be done now, but that is not what this debate and this letter are about. A number of questions have been asked on the six points. With that, I got myself a rather administrative job, because I wanted to pass them by at a point, and then bring up the questions that have been asked. I designed a whole flap system for it while you were talking. Look, the basis of all prosperity is knowledge, and the basis of knowledge is foundational education. That's number one for a reason. Everything starts with that. And that is not only very important for prosperity, but it is also an extremely moving thing, in which we help the youngest Dutch people get on the road in the world and prepare them to also contribute to our existence. And the quality of education in the Netherlands is good, but it is no longer top. We're going down the ladders. We have to worry about this, because if we want to be more than average wealthy, more than average stable, enjoyable, clean and so on, then we must have more than average good education; then we must have top education. All these little Dutchmen deserve that. Mr Futselaar has other ideas about this. He says, "These ideas don't add up at all." Well, these are the ideas the Cabinet is putting on, but not exclusively. There are all kinds of things in the regular policy. There are all kinds of discussions, which I do not want to serve up at all, but which were not par excellence in the econometric inventory for the next 30 years, but are therefore no less important. But that's not what this letter is about. In any case, the further development of these ideas must be carried out by the Minister of State. But it is important that there is also more tailor-made work for children in a digital learning environment. Children are used to it at home, but even less at school, and that can change. To Mr Verhoeven's question whether we are dealing with delays: more tailor-made work is one of the ways to tackle backlogs. Moreover, I think Mr Verhoeven knows that the Netherlands can be proud that it is one of the countries where the delays are being dealt with relatively well. That's the piece of talent. We need to do something about that. Without that, without a strong upgrading of it, we will not be able to achieve a higher earning capacity. Developing talent is just as important. My plumber complains that he only works with people who can install resumes, while the heat pump is still a secret. I recognise that education budgets mainly flow to those who have the longest education and that it is all concentrated at the beginning of the career. We see this has to be better. That's what we've been seeing for over ten years. Every cabinet has done things about it, including this cabinet, but a bigger step is needed. We see that very large parts of the secondary education system need more regular training in order to meet all kinds of new challenges. It's necessary. That is an economic issue. We have to take care of that. I've heard the subject come along a lot. Many economists say: we have heard you, but here we need a bigger step. Period. The third theme concerns part-time work. Mr Bruins has spoken a few harsh words about this. But in his direction: no one is being put to work by the government. As long as you don't have social security, you're on your own. But working is an extremely valuable part of life. It takes care of the usual portion with back-up and setbacks. It's a contribution that makes you matter. You gain acquaintances and knowledge. But we're in a part-time culture. That would also be okay if we would all accept the consequences of that and be happy with that position, but research shows that this is not the case. Many people who work part-time do not choose to do so and would prefer to do so differently. Those people don't do that for all kinds of reasons. Many of these reasons also have to do with childcare. That is what we must do. But once again, in the end, that's up to everyone. No additional questions have been asked about this. Oh, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u171	"We're in a part-time culture." Mr Moorlag would call that a bit "frantious." That sounds so negative. We have created a tax system that leads to one-and-a-half earners. You're crazy if you don't earn one and a half times, because that's the way you can fully respond to all the benefits of this bizarre tax system we've built since 2001. The government has sent us where we are now. But that doesn't mean we're all gonna be happier when we're working our earballs till we fall down. I would say that we want to move towards a future where there is more freedom of choice to choose how you want to combine care and work. That also means thinking about what a fairer tax system is. What suits the people of this time? If the Minister takes away part-time culture as something negative, I think he is failing the people who are doing everything they can to combine work and care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u172	No, I'm not. I started by saying that everyone makes that choice. It is not up to the government to decide on that choice. It will only become a problem if many people say that they would have preferred to make that choice differently, but they do not feel facilitated by the government to develop and even experience blockades earlier. A lot of people say exactly that. And no, not everyone gets happy working. Not everyone is happy with more work either. It's up to people to decide. But we are talking about those very many people who actually say they want to work more, who want to expand and see what is inside them and what can come out. Those people don't all work as much as they'd like to work. That's partly due to the wedge. That depends on child care, which is complicated to regulate and to administer. I do not need to dwell on it, because recent history shows enough. I'm talking about those people. But there are also people who make other choices. That's perfectly legitimate. That's what I'm bowing to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u173	We're gonna find each other in this. Indeed, I think it is right to look at things in a much more collective way, such as childcare, so that there is more available for those who choose to do so. But I think we have also created the problem in the Netherlands that you simply cannot live on one normal salary, especially in the west of the Netherlands. You just can't live on it anymore. In a prosperous country like the Netherlands, that's actually crazy. Prosperity should ensure that those people also have the freedom to choose to combine work and care in the way they want it and in the way they perceive it as "the good life."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u174	But these are comments that are also largely related to the way the housing market works at the moment. That is what Mr Bruins will agree with. He will also agree that house prices are not the same everywhere in the country, but we agree that people who make other choices should also be able to lead an existence that is part of Dutch standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u175	I do not know whether the Minister is going to have a block on governance or whether we are going to do it now. After all, the Minister just indicated...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u176	Let's ask that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u177	The governance of the fund? That's what I come up with in the first quarter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u178	No, not just from the fund. I'm gonna ask my question anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u179	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u180	The Minister indicated that the government should take more control. He also talked about the transition across sectors. We're talking about re-schooling, sub-schooling, lifelong development. This also means: from one sector to another. What I want to ask is: how is the government going to take on this greater direction across the sectors?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u181	I'll get to that. That's my third block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u182	Yeah? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u183	We don't count this as interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u184	No? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u185	On accessibility, Mr Bruins expressed the desire to decouple the economy from mobility so that they do not grow up together. I'll just pass that on to the ruler who's talking about that. Mr Moorlag spoke in favour of an international rail network. That is an important contribution to my 80 billion, but I also pass that wish on to the govern ment. I am not going to comment on individual investments, but I understand his point very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u186	I am not talking about individual investments, but about recognising that infrastructure is an important prerequisite for location and is therefore also an important condition for economic growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u187	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u188	And if you're talking about getting rid of incremental... Our entire rail network is just at the limits of capacity. Shouldn't we go to a system jump? Look at what happened at Lille after the HSL was built. Look at what happened in Denmark and Sweden after the construction of the Sontbrug. My question to the Minister is then: does he fully agree that such a system leap contributes to broad prosperity and to fewer flight movements, but also to economic growth?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u189	I think I included the word 'growth leap' in the letter. That growth leap isn't just needed there. For example, there is a question that I would like to raise: shouldn't we also have something to do with the connection between town and country? I refer to the supply of work sites, which are often located in cities. In the morning peaks there are axes on which it grows by 40%. There is therefore a need for a scale leap in many areas. And if we forget one of the links, that economic growth doesn't end up at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u190	I would like to go one step further than the problem of congestion. We have to take this very seriously, but it is important to me that we link both international and national core areas. This is not only good for the economy, but also good for broad prosperity. If you look at the journey times within the Netherlands by train and what is potentially possible there, will the Minister have to agree that the rail network really requires a system jump? Then, to my liking, he cannot be satisfied with the remark: I will pass it on to my colleague from IenW. It has an MIRT that is poured in concrete all the way up to 2032.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u191	Now I am really going to try to make Mr Moorlag a little more enthusiastic. The letter says that a system jump is needed in accessibility, along all kinds of axes. The letter states that the current budgets are not going to lead to that system jump. The letter states that more investment is needed by the public authorities and the letter identifies this area as one of the areas in which that fund can play a role. I hear Mr Moorlag say: we are going to see it. It is difficult today to make Mr Moorlag a little more cheerful. But then the sequel. I do not think that many of the people present here in the Chamber would seriously have thought that there would be a letter in which this cabinet would prescribe, just before the next five cabinets, all the projects to be carried out, worth more than 50 billion. No one here seriously thought that. If I had written down all the projects that need to be carried out over the next 30 years, I would have been not only naive, but probably also dangerous. So this is the beginning of a journey. This is a provision that focuses on six topics, rather than on the 100 topics that were potentially there. This cabinet, the next cabinet and the next cabinet must do something about it over and over again. The insights are never finished. The insights I present today will be something else in five years' time. So it's a trajectory, but what does that trajectory look like? I think I need to shape that trajectory in four directions. How does it work in the cabinet? What do I think we should do in the direction of the Dutchman? How should companies be involved? How would I like to deal with Parliament? At the end of the day, all that matters is how the Parliament wants to deal with me, but I would like to make a proposal. The cabinet has, of course, embraced this cabinet policy. Each of the trade ministers is working on this. It is my humble task to monitor progress and coherence and to discuss it with colleagues all the time. This means that my colleagues will develop further strategies in all these areas. In some cases, these will be proposals that can still be accepted and funded during this cabinet period. In other cases these will be things that are presented in one, two or three variants and prepared for later governments. For example, some of these reactions and effects will take the form of a cabinet response, for example on the Borstlap report or on the ibo Deeltime. In many areas there are routes that have already gone in this direction. That is all being worked out; all this must be ready. In the first quarter, in this quarter, there will also be a sketch, or rather an impact, of the national growth fund, with the whole governance, the criteria, et cetera, et cetera. That's how the Cabinet works on this. So you can appeal to me about the progress, the coherence, the directions and the choices of the six areas, but at some point I also have to hand over the stick to colleagues, who are going to have to tell exactly how they deal with delays, the extended North/South line, or whatever. Aiming the Dutch is also necessary, because Dutch think about prosperity ambivalently. They associate prosperity with pollution, inequality, hassle and traffic jams, but at the same time they report to the Malieveld because they feel that there are some gaps or has suspended their income. On both points, they are to some extent right, but how do we reconcile that? It is important to have the dialogue with Dutch people on this. I'd like to understand, I'm thinking of possibilities like research, but also maybe focus groups like Dutch people think about this. For policy, it is important to understand that. What do Dutch people think about leisure versus work, work versus income, income versus side effects of economic activities? All these things we want to understand a little better, because otherwise we will end up in a cocoon too much. That's promising, because sometimes you really come to things you didn't really expect. The ING Economic Bureau says that half of the Dutch want to spend their growing prosperity on things that are good for everyone. We once invented that people were willing to work extra three hours a week if they got certain things back for that. All those things had to do with collective arrangements. That's what Dutch people like and they're willing to do more for that, as long as they see what they get in return. To make a small contribution to starting a dialogue, I do something innocent: a podcast. In addition, leave the radio. Anyone can click that and hear what you have to say. That's where we're gonna let kids talk. Children also explicitly come with all kinds of collective desires. Sometimes they also come up with individual things, but they weigh against how hard they have to work for them. It's important to get an insight into that. That's what I want to organize. I don't know exactly how yet, but I'll let the Chamber know. Thirdly, there are the companies. Many companies, especially industrial and larger companies and operators, must understand that we are at a crossroads. Is the transition gonna be something that's bothering you, or are you gonna be ahead of it, making you make more money than you're doing right now and hiring more people? We need to talk very carefully about this split, including with foreign shareholders, who may be in a different position. I thought that was a good step. Many did not think the industry would simply sign the Climate Agreement. They did. I think that's something. Foreign industries and foreign colleagues are looking at this with some surprise. It's a good first step, but we have to get on with it. Together with the Secretary of State, I focus on the fact that the companies are being equipped in a variety of ways to achieve this growth, including themselves. But then the role of this Chamber, the Parliament. If I may... Well, let me put it this way. I do not speak for you, but if I were sitting there, I would say that prosperity deserves a more prominent place on the parliamentary agenda. The highlight now of the discussion on economic growth is the event the State of the Economy and the House of Representatives is not there. That's what I do for the media. I'm really surprised about that. I think that's really weird. I believe that government and parliament should hold talks with each other, regularly, over and over again, about how we gain our prosperity, what we think of that prosperity, where it lands, what we have to do for it, what are the sacrifices we have to make and whether we want to make those sacrifices. That conversation matters, and it doesn't happen enough, I think. I find it strange that I am presenting the State of Economics to the media. I think that belongs here. I can imagine that something is being organized for this, perhaps in line with what is now the state of the economy, because it is ultimately an independent organization, the CBS, that comes up with those figures. Perhaps we should seize such a moment as it is in February to turn it into the day of growth or the day of earning or the state of our income, where we talk about earning power in the context of wider prosperity. That seems useful to me. I'm already forcing something by presenting the State of Economics in front of a lecture hall this time, so more into society. My invitation to this Chamber would be to articulate how you see this yourself. You control the government and I do not control the parliament, so I do not have the last word here, but I think this deserves a higher place. There are similarities between the various speakers and there are differences. They deserve to be discussed. I would like to make this an annual event: the day of growth. That's my suggestion. Mr. Chairman. I have certainly left a number of questions unanswered. I'm going over there now. I have heard Mr Wiersma ask whether we are also taking a test on earnability in new policies. He's not responding to that right now. Am I right? Ah, look. Sure. I see him nodding. We now have a test on new policies. I need to think about that; that is the Integrated Weighting Framework, the IAC. It identifies all kinds of aspects of this specific policy, as a kind of integrated framework. There are, however, aspects of this that are anti-economic and that affect them. But after his question, I took a look at that and I think that could actually be done better. I cannot agree to what the final product will be like, but I can promise that I will look at how this Integrated Weighting Framework can be brought more into line with the ambitions we have formulated here, so that this test on that policy can also be more specific. Then I come to Mr Futselaar's questions. An important question from Mr Futselaar was how we learn from what went right and, above all, from what went wrong. He calls it FES, the top sectors and the innovation platform. Not everything has become a success. By the way, the FES is mainly watered at the end and in the beginning has known its charms. The Minister of Finance and I have been instructed by ourselves and by the rest of our colleagues to find out exactly what went wrong when the fund was being drawn up and what we can learn from it: what went well and what went wrong? So there will also be a piece that will work that out. It is then up to the Chamber to see whether we have stayed sufficiently away from the mistakes and sufficiently embraced the good lessons.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u192	That's good. That saves another motion. I would like to tighten up my question. For the examples we have now mentioned, there has also usually been an external committee that has written a report on them. Sometimes it was pretty hard and sometimes it was milder. At the FES it was the Meijerink Commission, I believe, and the AWTI has said some ugly things about top sector policy. I would like that to be taken into account, so that the cabinet not only finds out what it is not so satisfied about afterwards, but also takes what the external parties have said about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u193	That seems useful to me. I am going to discuss this with the Minister of Finance, because we are doing this together. I think it's a very useful suggestion. What I also like is that Mr Futselaar has embraced the parliamentary style in order, if there is a clear commitment, not to table a motion on it. I find that a form of hygiene that appeals to me very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u194	Look!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u195	While I'm making a profit, one of the major criticisms of the FES was that part of the Netherlands looks back on it with extreme resentment. Let me put it this way. I have heard, among other things, Mr Marcouch quite rightly make a passionate or passionate plea that we should think about the regions and not forget them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u196	You said Marcouch, didn't you? It's Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u197	So I said Marcouch instead of Amhaouch. That's really outrageous. Apologies!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u198	Well, Marcouch is in the region. He's mayor of Arnhem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u199	He's in the region and was once a member of this Chamber, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u200	He's mayor of Arnhem now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u201	Apologies to Mr Amhaouch. I understand that the Minister says that he is still coming up with an effect, but I would be happy if we could get a little comfort in this area. I think some provinces like that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u202	Now, for the umpteenth time, I am asked to make a statement on what comes out of it, while the criteria have not yet appeared. I'm not. The wish is noted. My position, in my role now, without speaking directly about this fund, has been explicitly demonstrated outside the Randstad in recent years, that there are enormous growth opportunities. Let me give you an example. I was visiting Zwolle. May I call you the Eemsmond? They're impressive examples. I am going to organise these lessons as well as possible in the spirit of Mr Futselaar, in consultation with the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u203	That is a promise. Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u204	The last interruption, Mr. President, if it's all right with you. I'm not entirely satisfied with the latter. I understand that the Minister says: at this stage I am not going to grant these projects or embrace them or deny them, because we are not yet there. But I do like it if the Chamber can now have some influence on the criteria that are now being drawn up and will not be faced with a proposal along the lines of: we have consulted and this is the list of criteria that we want to draw up. This also applies, for example, to the extent to which the Chamber can be involved in the fund. Some statements have been made on this matter today. I'd like some confirmation... security is a big word... that it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u205	The motion burns Mr Futselaar in the pocket anyway. I'll make him a suggestion. There's another letter about that fund. There is, in my view, ample opportunity to express a wide range of opinions on this letter, on that governance and on the criteria. If a motion is needed, then I invite Mr Futselaar to do so at that time. But I don't think now is the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u206	Mr Futselaar, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u207	I'm in politics long enough to know that it's easier to change a letter before it appears than after it appears. So I think the moment is sooner for us now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u208	I don't think we're gonna get rid of it without a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u209	We're gonna see it in the second term. Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u210	I'm gonna go see if I can get rid of it without a motion. It's about the connection between what we do with growth, when we discuss it here in the Chamber and how we can do it better. The Minister said two things. He was talking about the day of growth. Okay, good idea, but I'll also mention the check on the contribution to growth and earning ability. Is that good enough in the bill, so you can discuss it well with each other in different debates? He says he's gonna check it out. I would like to see how that is going to take shape, so I ask him to inform the Chamber. I think a wallet check on what we earn as the Netherlands is important. I asked for two other things, namely whether we could show a kind of monitor of the state of growth every year, however we stand, and whether the Minister would agree to this, a promising growth productivity policy, the steps that we could actually take and suggestions for policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u211	Of course, CBS figures are coming out, which are recent. I'm playing with the thought of somehow getting an appreciation on the part of the government of how we feel we're doing it. This is, of course, about participation and productivity, but also about the state of play on the six topics chosen. Then it should have been given to this government and subsequent governments to take a self-critical look at how we are doing and discuss it with Parliament. I can therefore imagine that there will be an annual "state of growth" letter. Let me work on that. I take Mr Wiersma's suggestion that there should not only be figures, but that there should also be something to debate. That's how I understand him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u212	I am pleased that the Minister wants to enter into this search and now commits a number of concrete things to it. I referred to the fact that was going to lead a life of its own, to the fact that it should not be a political one-night stand. I would like the Minister to show the Chamber in the short term how he guarantees that, so that at various times the Chamber can make use of that discussion on growth. So in the case of legislative proposals and regulations, but also every year just to take stock. Then she will be able to reflect on this and also see suggestions from experts from the country on how to do it better. I think we are loading such a broad discussion about prosperity and growth and also the check on people's wallets better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u213	I'll give you my word on that before the summer. In that I take all these routes, including those towards the Dutchman, and also this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u214	Then Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In order to be able to understand what the Minister's intentions are, how will the investment fund work in practice? You're gonna get the criteria. There's gonna be a fund like that. Who's going to test which project meets the criteria? How is that to be held accountable? Is that completely separate from that day of growth? Is that connected? Is that the day on which the investment fund is held accountable, or are these entirely separate routes? Can the Minister give some coloring to that as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u216	These are questions that we will answer in the letter that comes in the first quarter. I do so together with the Minister of Finance, who also has an important responsibility in creating this fund. I will make sure that the answers to these questions are in there, but I am not going to make any statements about this before the decision is taken by the Cabinet now that the work is in progress, but not yet completed. That would also be a bit uncollegial.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u217	So you'll have to be patient, Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u218	That's not my strongest trait, I have to admit. At the same time, the Minister makes a specific suggestion to the Chamber: you might consider setting up a day of growth. But if I listen carefully to the Minister, he actually says: don't do that now, just wait until we have been worked out and then we can see how we can connect it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u219	No, no, no. Let me put it this way. Making a proposal on how that fund works is a government responsibility. That's what I'm doing with the Minister of Finance. A letter will be published this quarter. How the Chamber wishes to control growth or the use of a fund or the realisation of progress on those six points is also something it could express its opinion on. I am making a proposal now, but I think it would be useful as spokesmen who have ideas about it that also bring forward them. Then I can take it with me when working out the proposal. 'Cause if I don't, I'm gonna be deciding how the Chamber's gonna control me. I do that with love, but I think that could be a dialogue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u220	I would like to go back to where Mr Futselaar had left off when it came to the contributions of the regions. Our theory would also be: if we could lift all the regions, we could also lift the economic growth potential of the Netherlands. Has this also been part of the discussion during the round of the Minister's round of all those scientists and economists? Let me take an example. Brabant's contribution to the GNP has grown by 17%. Groningen's contribution decreased by 17%. I don't know how much money the government has invested in it, but where does it get money and growth? Is that what this is all about? And I'm going to go through: how do we give that a good place in this story?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u221	I should consider whether the regional component is present in all the various economic analyses, and in what way. I don't know about that. It is clear that if prosperity depends solely on the Randstad, we are not doing well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u222	I understand the Minister is not prepared to do so, but I think this is important. I would ask the Minister to give us some more information. We have mentioned six themes. The Minister does not hear us about this, because I think we are in agreement on the substance. But now there is a regional component. It is very important to us, and I hear more spokesmen talking about it. How are we gonna weigh that? It would indeed not be good if we were only dependent on the Randstad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u223	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u224	I would like to get a response to this issue through the Minister at an appropriate time, perhaps by letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u225	Clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u226	I now have to take the regional component of the fund to be put together in a letter. I find that complicated. Let me think about how I can take Mr Amhaouch's concern into account in what is to come. I don't have an answer to it yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u227	I don't really want to go to a higher level of abstraction, but I want to go to some more coherence. The Minister said that the fund is not for structural funding. It's really about project-like. The letter contains a number of recommendations or directions of policies that do require structural funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u228	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u229	And that still means that the Chamber must have an overall picture. What exactly are the investments needed to deal with non-structural, occasional financing in very specific areas? And what about the other one?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u230	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u231	The question is where we can find it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u232	All six trajectories are being worked out. Some of them will depend on more structural funding and others may, by their occasional nature, use fund formation. But all these trajectories are being worked out. Versions will also be available for all of them, or they will be able to continue in this cabinet period, with amounts corresponding to them and measures needed to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u233	This is not just about the minister, it is about the whole cabinet. Does the cabinet come and therefore come all responsible directors in the short term with a financial agenda for this? Do I understand the Minister that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u234	A first progress is planned for the summer. Then one route will be farther than the other, but the intention is to let us know about it before the summer. We'll see how far it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u235	Okay. Let me make it clear: are you still answering the individual questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u236	Yeah, yeah. I've got a few more. I was with Mr Moorlag's questions. I've already answered several of his questions. He's asking me if I think wages should be raised. When I say that I think that households should notice something about it, I naturally think that our prosperity should grow and that wages should grow. That answer from me to that question applies not only now, but also for the next 30 years. Mr Graus called on the cabinet to solve the problem of nitrogen. That's what I heard. One of the interesting points is that Mr Graus says that we must be independent from abroad. I want to be a little nuanced about that. Of course, we have always depended on abroad for oil, iron ore, grain and so on. We cannot achieve complete independence from abroad at all. I believe that Mr Graus has never been concerned about our dependence on foreign countries in the fields of oil, iron ore or grain. I do not know whether from now on he should be equally concerned about all these overseas dependencies. However, it is true that technology in the various power blocks may be increasingly protected by all kinds of parties and that technological developments will no longer automatically become available to the Netherlands. So, as Europe, we must think about what things we want to mark ourselves on. We simply have to do so because, unfortunately, trade is now less self-evident than in the past. So we're gonna have to think about that. But the Netherlands will never become a country that is not dependent on abroad. Nor will Europe become a continent that is not dependent on other continents.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u237	I'm a sane person. That is why I nuded it during an interruption debate with my colleague Amhaouch and said: as much as possible. I also confirmed that at Mr. Amhaouch's interruption. I mentioned the debate on 5G that we are going to have on Thursday as an example. They are welcome to report, but I suspect that no Member of Parliament who is here really appreciates that we can only choose from Chinese companies. I'm just saying that honestly. It's true. 'Cause we really don't have any other choice. We made a mistake in that. Even within the European Union, so to speak, and even within America they cannot deliver. We're just behind. We now depend on a country like China. Let me say the word "spionage" carefully. That has always played a role. We can't really do anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u238	What's your question, Mr. Graus?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u239	That's what I meant by my question to the Minister. I said: make sure that we are as independent as possible in essential respects from abroad. That's what I said: as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u240	Even if it's not a question, I think it's a useful addition. Thank you. I recognise that there are techniques that we would have liked to have had in Europe afterwards. Conversely, of course, it is. The rest of the world depends on our chip machines and would love them to have that technique in their house. But we have it in the house. So it plays in two directions. But I recognise that it would have been best if we had been further ahead in some technological areas and had been able to use more techniques, including our own.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u241	Mr Graus, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u242	It is also a question of this minister being responsible for billions of investment in climate hysteria and everything in the years to come, while, as long as China and other countries continue to pollute the place, there is no point at all in what we are doing here. That's the point. Could we not have invested better, and that was my question, because of this independence? 'Cause that makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u243	I think I answered Mr Graus' climate questions in the climate debate at the time. A very good comment from him is that he stresses that we should also, above all, improve purchasing power and help people to work. That also requires just earning power. That's exactly what this is about. This should lead people at home to notice that things are getting better, getting jobs and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u244	Mr. Moorlag, you have a question about something that has already been said?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u245	I will come back, Mr President, with your permission, to what the Minister said about the button you can turn on, as I have mentioned, namely wage increases. My question was more motivated by the consideration that if you raise wages in the Netherlands, you get a different allocation of labour. That's the way it works. A higher level of pay will make economic activity more competitive at high value added compared to low value added economic activity. My question to the Minister is whether he recognizes that mechanism. If he then looks back at the General Political Reviews, where several movements in this Chamber have said that the pay button needs to be turned more strongly, and as far as I am concerned not only so that people remain more in the wallet or that we can raise the level of collective provision, but also to get work in those places where the most added value is created.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u246	I think that during the General Political Reviews the Cabinet reacted to the fact that wage growth seems desirable in many areas, because, at least at that time, wage growth did not always keep pace with economic development. That was the Prime Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u247	Mr. Moorlag, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u248	The second thing I have argued for is that we need to move towards more selective growth. There are concerns in this country about the numbness of the landscape. Again the umpteenth logistics center that comes in, labour intensive, for which almost no employees can be found, which in turn triggers labour migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u249	A little shorter, Mr. Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u250	Does the Minister share my view that we simply need to be much more selective in the acquisition of investment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u251	I think that's automatic, too. Land is expensive and scarce in the Netherlands, so there will be fewer activities with very little added value that require a low wage level but a lot of space. Those activities will see less of you. But also in the Netherlands things have to be distributed and then you have a distribution center in the Netherlands. So there will be a box here and there, but the Netherlands is not par excellence... We also do not have livestock farms with a farmer with 1,000 cows. We don't have that here either. There are all kinds of things that don't fit in the Netherlands. In that sense, of course, that selectivity is already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u252	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u253	Mr Stoffer asks how I see the future. Well, let me not make myself bigger than I am. If I knew that on my own, I'd have another job here. But there is a passage in the letter about what at least are the contours of what the Netherlands looks like, in which statements are made about, for example, that the manufacturing industry still plays an important role here and that we can house prominently sustainable basic industry here, because the conditions are ideal, but that all transitions are still needed. But I don't have more Jomanda-like skills either. Directors who speak out about the country in 30 years will always get wrong, and that is entirely their own fault. I've just gone into his argument about the countryside. And his questions about that fund will be answered by the Minister of Finance and I in our letter in the first quarter. Mr President, I think I am through the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u254	You've come to the end of your first term. Mr Amhaouch has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u255	Yes, Mr President, the same question I wanted to ask first. The Minister indicated: the transition over sectors; the government needs to take a bigger direction. It's about holistic. It all has to do with each other, over the chain. Then I'll ask the Minister how he's gonna manage this. We do have professional departments. The ministries are all organised vertically. Does the Minister have any idea how he's going to handle this as programme management instead of project management?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u256	Well, let me put it this way: the government doesn't make economic growth. We do the economic growth project by pursuing policies in different areas and in coherence. My proposal, in response to a question from Mr Wiersma, was to make an annual report on the 'day of growth', so that the Court can express its opinion on it, based on the figures available at the time. But overall direction from the big economic control room of the Netherlands goes too far. There's no such thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u257	Let's have a case. I imagine there will be a request for funds from the investment fund for AI. We've talked about that a few times. The Minister is right to point out that we need to strengthen that chain, that we should not just take a project. Then I think: okay, SMEs, education and the university are involved, perhaps also the region. The question is, how are you going to manage that chain? 'Cause you're giving an X amount for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u258	We're not managing the chain. We're just gonna honor whole chains. There's gonna be a proposition. If that proposal is 'we're going to do fundamental research, but nothing else', then it won't win. That's not gonna work. Only those proposals can be accepted in which the participants themselves, the parties of society, together produce a proposal that puts down a whole chain and which you can objectively see is promising, that it leads to economic growth, which also often coincides with societal issues that need to be solved and which therefore have a social and economic potential. Well, then it's not like you're suddenly throwing a whole bunch of money at that. Then you're gonna have to have intermediate moments, too. You're gonna have to measure if the parties are gonna live up to that. But you want parties to come up with that chain themselves. The government cannot rank society from The Hague, but it can honour what is good and not honor what does not meet the conditions. That's the way it's gonna go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u259	Mr Amhaouch, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u260	What I want to tell you is that we are not going to honour something as a chain, which is very good as a cluster, but that we are all going to talk about loose projects here in the Chamber and not see the coherence anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u261	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u262	When will the first project be honored?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u263	This cabinet period we try to honour projects. They're being developed now. Again, they have to meet high standards. They have to be good. If it's bullshit, we're gonna ridicule ourselves and make the mistakes we may have made in the past. So we are now thinking about how we can generate extremely high-quality project proposals to honour this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u264	Okay, so the investigation phase that Mr Stoffer feared is already in the letter. If the letter provides clear, good frameworks, then there will also be strong chains that will automatically organise themselves and register on the possibilities that exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u265	The word "self" is too easy but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u266	Almost by itself. But there is already a very good basic cooperation infrastructure and many parties have already found each other. That's what I meant. However, it is absolutely the intention of this cabinet that we should not allow this fund to be tampered with any longer, but that we should really have effective, tangible and visible projects in this period of government. So there are going to be projects coming out of the fund. That's really the goal...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u267	That's the cabinet's commitment, yes. But let it simmer any longer? Let's put it this way: we've had the idea of starting something like this for 50 years, it's been tried sometimes, but we haven't always succeeded. Something hasn't been messing around for so long. The million-dollar note says we were gonna do this. It wasn't in the coalition agreement. It was a bold plan. It will soon come to the concrete contours of a fund, and yet this cabinet period we try to propose... It's not a long screw-up process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u268	Finally, Mr President. I know that, I see that, but I also see that in the House of Representatives, despite the fact that it has not been messing around for a very long time, there is support for taking this step together. I would regret that, if that support is available now and that low interest rate, that situation and that necessity, then we will allow it to last longer than necessary. In spite of all the positive signs, my group is concerned that it will take longer than necessary. So I am very happy that the intention is really there to actually start some projects. That is why I came to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u269	Okay. Then I say on behalf of the cabinet that we have no intention of messing around.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u270	Look, that's a commitment!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u271	Which of the six articles or pillars does the Minister intend to deal with most quickly in order to remove Mr Verhoeven's concern?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u272	The Millions note identifies three areas where the focus can first of all be focused. These are knowledge building and knowledge development. Then you have to think about everything about learning knowledge. That could be basic education, for example. Everything about research and development, and infrastructure. Those are examples where that might be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u273	Wherever that could be soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u274	Where that might still be possible for this cabinet period. But again, if there aren't any good proposals, it won't work. There's got to be some good proposals. We're gonna be very strict.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u275	No mediocrity, I've already said in my contribution. Will the Minister be in line with proven and proven methods and processes when it comes to quality assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u276	That is a question that is not necessarily about things that we want to do during this cabinet period. But I think Mr Bruins means that as a question about how the assessment of proposals will go over the next 30 years in that fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u277	No, this is also about the rush. Because if you're not going to reinvent the wheel, then everything that has been proven for the past 30, 40 years, for example in innovation policy, things can be started faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u278	Okay. I'd be happy to take that suggestion on board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u279	Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u280	Still a little while. In response to questions from Mr Verhoeven and Mr Bruins, the Minister has just said three pillars. Above all, I would ask for a forward-looking view on this infrastructure pillar. Are we really going to put the spa in the ground in this cabinet period and actually build it? Is that what the Minister is referring to? Or are we going to see where we can create new railway lines or additional infrastructure? I cannot imagine that we will actually build between now and March 2021. I wonder how the Minister will do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u281	I didn't call the word "building" literally. In the General Political Reviews I have spoken out, and the Minister of Finance has also spoken out, that we are trying to honour this cabinet period of investment proposals. I would add that this is what quality is for. We are going to be very strict, not to make it fail, but to make it work. So whether it comes will depend on the quality of the proposals. But that's the plan. It seems to me to be rather ambitious that it should be built.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u282	Look, now we've found each other a little bit. I think the Minister helped bring Mr Verhoeven and I together a little bit. 'Cause I mean, "kick in the ground" really means "just going to build." And with the Minister's explanation, I'm getting a little further. Thanks. We'll talk about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u283	In my view, Mr Verhoeven did not mean a kick in the ground but a kick in the ass.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u284	Look, a kickstart.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u285	Mr Verhoeven is no longer here, but I hope he does not want to do that to me. We'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u286	We are at the end of the debate and I noticed that I was getting a little restless. What's that all about? The Minister said at the beginning: small steps have been worked out, so we have to go for the big steps now. That's what he said in his introduction. He then said about this discussion that it was not intended for the political questions at this time, because they should actually be discussed in the regular consultations. In his growth letter he mentions all kinds of themes, for example developing a lifetime; that has been mentioned here a few times. That is what the trade ministers must do. I find that rather difficult, because for me this minister is a kind of union coach for growth. It must get us all, including the trade ministers, into that position. Then I wonder what we're going to hear from them when and if that can't be a bit sharper. Because I actually find it very unclear what I'm going to see before the summer of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u287	The union coach will first send a letter with the Minister of Finance about how such a fund works. For the summer, the state of play will be on the development of each of the six areas. I do not promise that they are all ready, but it will show how far it is and how the coherence is. Eventually, preferably during this cabinet period, this should lead to the award of concrete proposals or concrete policy options that are ready for further implementation by subsequent governments. That is what Mr Wiersma gets from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u288	I do not agree with the Minister that the small steps have, by definition, been worked out. I specifically asked him to make agreements with entrepreneurs in the coming weeks where tight rules could be removed and to see if we could make more of a distinction, so that those small entrepreneurs might see that burden on labour lower. I think it would be a shame if the Minister said here: then you should wait, because we might make an overview of promising options sometime in the summer, and we are waiting for a new cabinet. Next thing you know, those entrepreneurs will be three years away. The same applies if you want to work more hours. If you work 28 hours and want to work 4 hours more, then those 4 hours almost go all the way to day care. What can we do for these people in the short term? I really don't want to wait till the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u289	Clear, Mr. Wiersma, it's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u290	I want the Minister to direct this discussion, even in the short term. I know he doesn't have that in hand, but then he'll have to push it with those ministers. I'd like to see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u291	Look, on these themes I'll be the union coach, but there's also a lot of regular policy that doesn't have to wait for anything at all. The regular policy referred to by Mr Wiersma is the regular area of, for example, the Secretary of State for EZK and the Secretary of State for EZK. The Secretary of State for EZK is working on all kinds of things with regard to SMEs. This includes administrative burdens, at all burdens on business, funding opportunities, innovation in SMEs, the digitalisation agenda. Those are all things that are playing now, which are important now. They're also important for the next 30 years, but they're not waiting for anything. That's now. But I can't all be the director of that. I agree with him that some things shouldn't wait at all. It's not like we're gonna decide from now on never to do anything small again. All these things remain necessary, all of which is regular policy, and that is what government officials in the cabinet are doing now, including in my department. What I specifically offered myself as a director for is the six major pathways and their impact for the coming decades and the attempt to come up with several accepted investment proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u292	Mr. Wiersma, concluding, because I really want to go to the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u293	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I think there's a huge opportunity. This is also said: it is about productivity and the state of SMEs. Many SMEs, the broad platoon, can we just ask: what can we do for you? What rules are in the way? Maybe we can make a distinction. You don't employ 20,000 people, maybe only two or three, but that one extra person you can hire makes the difference to you. It is very nice that the Minister here refers to his colleague in the department, but frankly we do not see it. So I'd say we're gonna have to go with that in the next few weeks. I would like to ask the Minister if he would urge all those in his department who can do so, to make arrangements with entrepreneurs, to go to them to ask what they are looking for, to make arrangements about it, and I would say to the Chamber: to inform the House this spring about what has been achieved there and what has not been done there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u294	For me, the beginning of this debate was perhaps the most beautiful. That was when Mr Wiersma stood there and threw all the ambition and energy he had into this subject. That is the way to deal with this issue. That is the enthusiasm I have, and that is the conviction I have, because we must move forward in this country. Because if we don't do something now, they're gonna look at us in 10 years, 20 years and 30 years with a very angry face. I'm committed to that, but I can't take care of all the regular policies. I can encourage and address colleagues. I will. I will make this point, but I say in all honesty that I do not live up to being a coordinating ruler for all the matters of all my fellow Members who have anything to do with economic growth. I'm not making that happen. What I do live up to is that I convey the enthusiasm of Mr Wiersma, but also his appeal to my fellow Members. What I am going to do is to honour my commitments to this Chamber and to Mr Wiersma when I come back to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u295	I do feel a bit of the same unrest as Mr Wiersma. There's gonna be projects coming up on this fund. Something with hydrogen is well defined, but do we not end up in a situation where such a project as lifelong learning needs to be developed somewhere in the Ministry of Education and Science? How does the Minister retain ownership of this and how is this idea of lifelong learning simply well invested? And how will the funding be arranged for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u296	Again, I do not think it is very likely that a structural cost item can be covered from a fund. I think that this could be one of the routes that needs to be prepared in different variants for a subsequent cabinet. I have promised to report on the state of affairs before the summer. But I can't take over all the work of my colleagues. I can present it in conjunction. I can give it all a push. We have now put this on the agenda. We have made our cabinet-wide commitment to ensure that they are further developed on these major issues. But I can't put it all in motion right now. I think that the previous cabinet, in which Mr Moorlag's party had a large voice and in which also leaders of the Labour Party worked with great enthusiasm to develop a lifelong life, has shown that the issue is not so simple. There's a lot involved. That is a good reason to take us now to take firm steps and now prepare for a next cabinet. In all honesty, I say that the previous cabinet, which I was also in, may not have done enough. We do now, but I can't suddenly be witches. Developing a lifetime is one of my favorite topics. At the same time, it is perhaps one of my frustrations that we have been talking about this for ten years and that we have done all kinds of things, but that the great breakthrough has not yet been made. I think I share that feeling with Mr Moorlag, but then it is not weird to develop a real plan for once instead of just promising things that you don't live up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u297	I would like to keep the Minister from blaming this cabinet for not having done enough lifelong learning in this cabinet period. So my appeal is to make real work of this and also to show that the essence of my reproach at the beginning, namely that there is very little fish between head and tail, is unjustified.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u298	Things happen to develop for a lifetime. That is something that my rulers can talk about with enthusiasm. This is an extra-large step. To manage the expectations: it is not my expectation that a very big step in a lifetime will be taken in this cabinet period for the next 30 years. It is my expectation, however, that it can be worked out in such a way that a subsequent cabinet can immediately make a decision on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u299	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u300	Then I'm...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u301	Oh, excuse me. I thought you were already at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u302	...at the end of... Then I've come to the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u303	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u304	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u305	That's what I thought I heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u306	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u307	This is the end of the first term of office. I would now like to move quickly on to the second term of office. Mr Wiersma of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u308	Mr President, thank you and also thank you to the Minister. It is not an easy task for which we stand, which also came forward this evening, but there is a great deal of agreement that we must take those steps, dare to break the status quo and dare to make new proposals. I said this should not be a political one-night stand, but not a far-from-your-bed show. I think it is wise not only to put this on the long-term political agenda, but also to look at the short-term. I didn't call on the Minister for nothing to take a number of steps that he could already take here. Mr. Chairman. I welcome a number of commitments. I think the day of growth is beautiful. The state of growth on that too. I would like it if we could have the opportunities for that growth policy, or actually suggestions to us as a political one. I would really like to call on the Minister, precisely because the short term in this Chamber is often marked by very concrete legislative proposals, not to miss the opportunity to discuss growth in these specific legislative proposals. In this we must clearly show the contribution to the earning capacity. It's all nice and nice that apparently there are all kinds of vague things in it, like IAK, but I don't know all about it and I have no idea what it means to me, and I don't think the people at home either. We're gonna have to make that check on the wallet. And that's just about the Dutch wallet, about our prosperity and about people's incomes. How are we gonna do that? And is the Minister prepared to give this real shape and not come forward with a letter in six months' time? Because there is too much in the short term that we can make nicer and better here, and then we are already taking steps. Sometimes these are small steps, but the Netherlands also happens to be the country of often small steps. And we have to do and-and do it, so we have to do it in the short term. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u309	Thank you. Mr Futselaar, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u310	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A question came to my mind at the end of the debate. Look, I can go a long way with the Minister when he says that the Chamber has beautiful lists of wishes for the fund, which is largely about the fund, but no criteria have been laid down for that fund and I do not have a governance structure yet, so you are far too early; I cannot say anything about that at all. I understand that. I just don't understand how the Minister can say at the same time, when it comes to things that we still want to live up to this cabinet period: the first projects are under development. Surely that's not possible if we don't have any criteria to assess them with yet? So can the Minister clear that up for me? I am in great doubt about this at the end of the debate. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions that I am not making. So the Minister can see that as a profit. The first concerns the commitment made on lessons learned. The second concerns the SP implementation of the fund. I said something about green jobs and green prosperity. I agree with the answer that this is now a little early, but that is not true as far as I am concerned when it comes to criteria. They are being drawn up at the moment, and it seems that we will receive a letter on this within two months, and I would like to propose frameworks for that, as you can do so as a representative of the people. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in the past the Economic Structural Funds have led to a very uneven distribution of resources between regions in the Netherlands;]] [[noting, for example, that the northern provinces obtained only 1% of the investment;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that, when drawing up the announced investment fund, there is a somewhat balanced distribution between parts of the country,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29696-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u311	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u312	Mr Bruins, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u313	Mr. Chairman. It was a lot about money and trials today. For me it was about the question: what kind of country do we want to live in? Tomorrow evening, the plenary debate will be about what kind of country we want to work in. Today it was about what kind of country we want to live in. Because investing in the future has everything to do with morality, with the question of how to pass your country on to your children. What kind of future are you building together? When I was talking about a good life, I noticed something came up with the Minister. I don't know if anything good came out, but something came out of the term "a good life." The Greek philosopher Socrates for the first time thought about what a good life means. For him it is about achieving a peace of mind that comes from doing good and not by living by the moral codes of society. I have heard too many moral codes in this Chamber today, namely: the harder we work, the happier we get. The Christian Union wants to ensure that we go to such a society. The Christian Union wants to work towards a society in which we can have care, time and attention for each other. Innovation can and will play an important role in this process. Knowledge is inextricably linked to morality. I also end my second term with Socrates. Socrates said: there is only one highest good, namely knowledge, and one evil, namely ignorance. I wish the Minister knowledge and wisdom in the follow-up to the growth agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u314	Thank you. Mr Van der Lee has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u315	Thank you to Mr Bruins for his fine words. Socrates can actually be quoted in any debate. However, I have a question, also in view of Mr Bruins' little debate on the interruption in the first term. I agree with him that not everything should focus on growth and more hours of work. But there is something remarkable in the Netherlands. If you look at who works part-time, you can see that 76% of women work part-time and only 27% of men work part-time. Doesn't Mr Bruins think it's part of the good life that there's a better balance in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u316	In any case, I believe that there should be freedom within the family to choose for themselves. It is indeed a typical Dutch trait that the woman works less than the man. I'm really sorry about that, because it's also so wonderful to have fathers at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u317	Thank you. Mr Van der Lee, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u318	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In general, it is not difficult for me to be critical-constructive towards the government in debates. Today I'm struggling with that. There are a lot of good things in this play. I look forward to working out the six pillars. I still feel like I'm swimming in a trap and with me I'm swimming in the Room. That has to do with what was written in the Millions' Note and how exactly the Minister of Finance explained those words. Moreover, I see a very clear distinction in the letter. Four pillars are developed by trade ministers and are likely to be included in our election programmes and what we are all going to do in the next coalition. Two other pillars are linked to the investment fund. I don't like it. Now the Minister says, "I'm not ruling anything out, but I'm not saying anything either." That doesn't take away my suspicions. There's definitely one area where I see a lot of investment potential. That is why today I am trying to force the statement that projects in this area can also qualify for the investment fund. That's what my next motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, on the one hand, the government notes in its growth agenda that the infrastructure it intends to raise to a higher level is at the service of accessibility for people and goods, but, on the other hand, it is also about connecting to facilities for the exchange, storage and reuse of hydrogen, bioflows, nitrogen, etc.;]] [[whereas the government only has two pillars under the heading "What is the cabinet going to do?" In other words, pillar 4, strengthening research and innovation ecosystems, and 5, improving accessibility...... explicitly states that the Millions Note refers to this as an area eligible for the investment fund;]] [[calls on the Government to recognise that projects that strengthen future earning capacity in the field of energy infrastructure may also be eligible for the Investment Fund,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29696-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u319	Mr. Chairman. Investing in education and increasing the level of education in the longer term is important, but in the short term it is simply a waste of talent. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas good education is an important pillar of economic development;]] [[Whereas the shortage of educational professionals poses a serious threat to the quality of education;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures, including better wages and working conditions, to bring the attractiveness and quality of education to a higher level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29696-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u320	Mr. Chairman. The point made by Mr Van der Lee concerns me too. When it comes to lifelong learning, there is a chance that the financial coverage will not be found and that it will be transferred to the next cabinet. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas increasing the level of training of the workforce contributes to economic development, productivity growth and increased employability of workers;]] [[Whereas many workers, in particular those working at the bottom of the wage building, have poor access to training facilities;]] [[calls on the Government to make plans to give concrete expression to the principle of lifelong learning and to present it to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29696-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u321	And the final motion is about the system jump in the infrastructure. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Dutch rail network reaches the limits of its growth;]] [[Whereas a good connection between the Netherlands and the HSL network contributes to better connections between the Dutch regions and better connections with the economic core areas of North-West and Eastern Europe;]] [[Whereas this will also provide a better alternative to short and middle-distance air traffic;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up plans for HSL connections and present them to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29696-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u322	Finally, I should have started by thanking the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u323	Thank you, Mr Moorlag. I call Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u324	Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions, but I do have two sheets of paper to explain. Firstly, I welcome the fact that we have talked about economic growth in the future. I think it is right for the Minister to say that we in this house never talk about a collective and the state of the economy, that he should do that for the media, so something is not right. In my opinion, we should fix this between the cabinet and the chamber, also towards the future. We've talked about this before as CDA: what does the manufacturing industry look like in the future, 2.0? We have also said in the case of trade, in the case of Minister Kaag, what does the Africa strategy look like for economics and trade? That's also something that needs to be done. But the overall state of the economy, we have never really talked about that in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u325	This consensus on this point calls for an interruption. I do not remember a debate in the time when I was a spokesperson, when we did not talk about Dutch earning power, including in the context of climate policy. It is constantly about the ability of industry to earn; is it going to succeed, yes or no? I am talking to Mr Amhaouch in every debate I have had with him about the SMEs and the earning capacity of the Netherlands. The General Reviews, the Accountability Day, they are all about the state of the economy. I mean, an extra debate, that's what I'm always for, that's not what I'm about, but here pretending we never talk about it, I find it really strange.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u326	This confirms my image. It is right that we often talk about small and medium-sized enterprises, about innovation and about funding on a number of individual points. But the whole picture, I need it myself. And I think that's important. Indeed, the CDA stands for a competitive and sustainable debt-to-GDP ratio there is this tension that is on the economy, in order to achieve its growth potential towards the future. And we are indeed doing so for future generations and for our collective provision. In addition, SMEs are the norm; Mr Wiersma has also mentioned this. It is said that we have to do it big, small steps don't help. But SMEs have to make it happen. Then we need to see how that's going to happen. I do expect a serious response from the Minister on the regional scale. We are only confident that we will be able to lift the Netherlands to a higher level if we can raise the twelve provinces or regions. Mr Futselaar has also referred to this. I would therefore like a serious answer from the Minister. He says: I do not have a direct answer to it today. I would like to hear in the form of a letter or something else, immediately when discussing the investment fund, how it is taken on board. And last but not least, chairman, programme management. I am afraid that we are going to make a lot of money available here, that we are going to give the money to a cluster on the front, but that everything will then fall apart in trade ministers, and that at some point the union coach will no longer have a role to play. I would like to give this to Minister Wiebes, but also to the Minister of Finance, who will be with the investment fund for the moment. How do we manage the programme in the near future and not individual projects?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u327	Thank you. Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u328	Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of the first term, I was not so enthusiastic about this letter of growth, and at the end I was not so enthusiastic about the investment fund. And I have to say honestly that I haven't gotten very excited about either after the Minister's first term. I don't know if he can do much about that. It is also in the fact that, when I look for example at the motions of the Labour Party, I think: oh, then we have a fund right away; if you are not careful it goes into one's education, then of course I come with road safety, and so everyone has their own pet horses. Where's the grip on that? I still have the idea: can we not just organise that about the normal budget? Then we just have a grip on it as a room, and it's not gonna live our own lives. So yes, Mr President, it may sound a bit like I'm not in the mood for it yet. Well, that's right. But I'm always open to things that come from the cabinet. So if this Minister, supplemented by his colleague in the finance sector, comes up with some very good proposals, then I will take a good look at them. But right now, I have to be very honest, and I'm not really warm for it yet. But who knows what's gonna happen in the summer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u329	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u330	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, we have a growth letter and it's about the future. But I also had to bear in mind that although we get a ban on fireworks, some of them are still hidden in them, and some flares. It goes towards the future, but at the same time they produce so much fog, that we do not yet see exactly what is to come. So I would like to appeal to the Minister to try to make relations more concrete. I understand the distinction between structural and occasional in relation to the fund, but the aim of the fund will also be to provide occasional incentives for a structural flow of money. I thank the Minister for the answers I have received, but I have not received any answers either. The first thing I want to talk about is the story of care, of innovation. I have a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the high staff shortage in the care, with all possible problems for its care;]] [[Considering that structural commitment to innovative technology and support can contribute to the comprehensive approach to this problem;]] [[Considering the government's commitment to the investment fund to focus on investments with social added value;]] [[calls on the government to consider any way possible to mobilise more structural innovation in the healthcare sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29696-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u331	As you can see, there are structural and occasional side-effects here, but also in a context where occasional resources are used for a more structural approach. Mr. Chairman. And then finally. I understand the Minister's problem that he cannot say anything about all these other policy areas, but we are talking about a letter on economic growth. That is how we have looked at this story. We are now discussing a letter on how to achieve economic growth in the best way possible. This includes a number of structural adjustments to the economy. Hence the next motion, to gain more insight into what the cabinet is proposing. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the increase in labour productivity of all groups of workers can make a significant contribution to economic growth and prosperity;]] [[Whereas, inter alia, the commitment to sustainable employability and lifelong development can make an important contribution here;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify how it intends to increase (average) annual labour productivity growth;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29696-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u332	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u333	Mr. Chairman. I thought I'd answer some questions first and then go over the motions. Mr Wiersma is struggling with the fact that, in his view, we do not systematically demonstrate the importance of economic growth and prosperity in concrete legislative proposals. I have just tried to answer that in agreement with you before. I agree with him. There are tests of concrete proposals, but insufficient in terms of this earning capacity. I tried to tell him I'd come back to anchoring it. I repeat that here, so I too believe that we should institutionalise this test in the case of specific legislative proposals. I will send him a separate letter about this after the letter on the fund. I hope this worked out. Then I want to inform this Chamber of how I intend to anchor it. He has also asked me to once again enthuse the Secretary of State, to the extent necessary, with all kinds of proposals in the direction of SMEs, for example. I've just been briefed; there will be a financing letter from the Secretary of State in two weeks' time. That's one aspect of that. But I will ask her if she sees a chance to go a little wider into the things that are going on or are going to have to walk in the field of that part of business. Mr Futselaar asks the question: how can it be that the cabinet has no criteria yet, but is already working on the proposals? That is of course also because it is possible to develop things partly in parallel. Sometimes you have to adapt to the end, but Mr Futselaar can imagine something in that interactive process. In all honesty, he participated in the "we must hurry." Then I'll hurry up, and then I'll try to develop it in parallel. It may be that, if you change a criterion at the very last moment, you may have to amend the proposal as well. But I don't do that myself, because I don't write those proposals. It's not the cabinet that's putting forward its own proposals. But some parallelity does correspond to the sense of urgency that lives in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u334	I don't think I was one of the people who said it had to be quick. I think it's amazing that you say, "I can't say anything about the criteria that come up. I can't say anything about the details. I would also like to advise Members of Parliament who wish to send it, which I strongly advise against, because I do not want to say anything about it. But in the meantime, we are working on the details." I do not think that is compatible with one another, nor do I think it is fair to go to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u335	Yes, but this is exactly how policy preparation works. You're thinking about it for a while. I said I'm in an advanced state, but it's not ready yet. I'm not gonna talk about things that aren't ready and that I'm gonna do with a colleague, am I? There's always a time when you send something to the Chamber. And it's always the case that it's almost done a few days before, but not quite, and then you don't talk about it. This has been like this since 1814. I don't think that's crazy. I'll send something when it's done. Then I'll answer for it and then I'll answer all the questions about it, but not until it's done. But since I have a reasonable idea of where to go, I can in the meantime give some guidance to the parties that are developing proposals. But indeed, there must be a battle in everything. But we're trying to speed things up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u336	1814 was therefore not a highlight in parliamentary democracy. That is not the example I would like to go to. But imagine you're a company or a region or whatever. You have projects in the area of infrastructure or knowledge or on one of the other themes. Soon this fund will come, and it will appear that other regions or other companies have already had other things such as half-finished proposals or preliminary discussions. That's really weird, isn't it? That's a form of legal inequality, isn't it? You can't use such a huge fund, 50 billion, it seems you're already doing the first expenses? That's not fair in any way, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u337	But it's not about sharing favors. It's about focusing on economic growth. You already want to be able to do a number of things in this cabinet period, because you can give every Dutchman economic growth. However, it is not a competition between private parties in which matters are or are not honoured. It is about something that is in the public interest and from that public interest you assess whether proposals meet your criteria. And that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u338	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u339	...we haven't done it yet. You will. I shall come back to that later on in the debate on the motions. There is one point on which I am less gloomy than Mr Bruins. Because I haven't heard anyone but him say, the harder we work, the happier we get. He said that in the sense that he didn't mean it. I didn't hear anyone else say that. I think everyone has agreed that people will eventually go over there themselves; so does the government. I hope that's reassuring. Then I come to Mr Amhaouch's regional scale jump. The regionality, the extent to which it lands in criteria and the way in which it could be taken into account, seem to me to be matters that should be included in the letter on the fund. That is my commitment to this, so that this letter will allow the debate with Mr Amhaouch on the regional component. I think the same about programme management, because by this Mr Amhaouch clearly means the following: once the investment has been made, how do you ensure that it is carried out in such a way that it does not fall apart in all loose things and disappears in current budgets, after which we never see anything of it again? That's, I think, his fear. Mr Stoffer did not ask a question, but said that he would be open to doing it all within the normal budget. Mr Van Otterloo has tabled two motions. I'll go to the motions now. To that end, I would like to refer to a number of comments that I have made myself and to some of the answers that I have given. Firstly, I have made it clear that I am not currently prepared to discuss whether or not I am eligible for any kind of funding before I have written a letter with the Minister of Finance. Otherwise I get ahead of all things and there comes a kind of Kremlin watching on the basis of what I say about a certain motion. That's really not my intention. I said very clearly that I wanted to have that discussion on the basis of a letter. I should therefore like to refer to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 8, 9 and 12 dissuade, for equal reasons. I have also said that I am standing here to discuss future growth for the next 30 years on the basis of the six points, and that I feel like the union coach. However, two motions have also been tabled which are clearly separate from this initiative, which simply concern the fields of expertise of my colleagues and which do not specifically concern this growth strategy. Those are the motions on the items Nos. 10 and 13. I must also advise against this, or I must ask the proposers to table these motions in a debate with the govern ment in question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u340	However, I would like to return to the judgment on the motions for resolutions on the items Nos. 8, 9 and 12. I filed the motion to item 9 myself. I'm really having a hard time with this. I usually go along with this, but we are discussing a letter from the cabinet. It was discussed in the cabinet, including with the Minister of Finance. It explicitly links the investment fund on two points, in two pillars it does and in four it does not. You referred that to the Chamber. I want that to change. Then I do not think you can say that you should first write a letter with the Minister of Finance. You've already written it. That is the letter we are discussing here tonight. This is really not a good story. A substantive argument, I can do with that, but I cannot do with such a procedural remark, which is factually incorrect. For there is a letter before it, which has been co-created by the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u341	Yeah, but the spoken word counts. I have indicated that there are at least three areas, as they have been mentioned in the Millions' Note, which could qualify for funding from a fund, because it is conceivable that there is an irregular component that is not structural either. In the debate I did not rule that out either for the part of the motion on item No. 9 projects mentioned, but I am not yet ready to grant this recognition in this way. I didn't rule this out. I'm taking this with me in my talks with the Minister of Finance. We'll work that out. I have also made it clear that I am then prepared to speak about what lies ahead. But I'm not doing that now on the basis of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u342	However, I am not satisfied with that, because this ambiguity has created the cabinet itself. They have themselves included a text in the Millions Note. This note now includes texts in which, in the first half of the document, it is said that infrastructure can be explained in two ways. But when it comes to the link to the investment fund, it is only laid when it comes to the classical infrastructure and not the energy transition. You're creating that confusion. I want clarity on that. I also want it in black and white. To be honest, as I pointed out in my term, I feel like I'm swimming in a trap. I want this marked. You must clear up this confusion today. You must not say that you do not rule anything out or give any clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u343	That's true, because I'll clarify when something's finished. That's soon and not today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u344	So this letter wasn't finished?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u345	No, the implementation of the fund and what things exactly can meet it is a second phase. That has even played a role in the General Political Reviews. It's a two-stage missile for now. It first states where we see opportunities for greater growth and what are the main themes for high growth. Then there will be the development of a fund, including criteria and governance. This kind of thing can be answered. As soon as that clarity is available, Mr Van der Lee will be given that clarity. Then I'm willing to discuss it in all kinds of ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u346	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u347	Rounding up, indeed. But then it would be consistent to delete those two sentences that are on pillars 4 and 5, because then the Minister will have to clarify all areas when there is clarity. Why take an advance on two pillars...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u348	Where there's no clarity, I can't give it. But where there is clarity, I don't have to hold it back, do I? There is clarity in three areas. If that is not clearly stated in that letter, I explained it in the oral debate. In three areas, however, there is clarity, namely that it is conceivable that there will be investments and proposals which will be eligible for the occasional impetus from a fund. I can give you that clarity. Nor do I intend to withdraw that clarity; I am happy to give it, because it is already clear. This isn't clear yet. As soon as it's finished, I'll give you that clarity and we can discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u349	With his negative opinion, the Minister also points out the weakness of the debate we are having tonight, because it concerns the whole economy and society as a whole. This means that there may indeed be elements that belong to a fellow executive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u350	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u351	But it doesn't mean that there can't be any elements about the whole thing today. Here a number of suggestions are made and the government is asked to include them in the letter we can expect for the summer. That's what the motion is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u352	Sure, sure. But structural innovation in the healthcare sector is not a priori something that can be financed from an occasional fund. It may be a sector eligible for this, but that is not necessarily evident at the moment. Above all, it is a motion that calls on a colleague to do something in his own policy area which is not necessarily related to this letter of growth. I find that kind of motion complicated. I don't go over everything. I am coordinating on these six coherent growth themes, but if there are any motions that are not clearly linked to them, I think I am quite right to be reluctant to force colleagues to do something, sometime at 11:30 a.m., in a policy area that is not mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u353	Mr Van Otterloo, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u354	When I tabled the motion, I tried to point out that the word'structural' did not refer to the investment that should be made now, but to the effect it had to have in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u355	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u356	I think Mr Stoffer was right when he asked whether it would be better to pass through the budgets. Then you have a clear policy and budget manager. Now, in fact, the communication serves the Chamber: when it comes to the investment fund, there is shared responsibility. Then it turns out that no one is solely responsible. The other subjects in the motions should only go through the trade ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u357	But the motions on the items Nos. It is clear that 10 and 13 also run through the normal budget. At least it's just a regular policy, isn't it? It would be very strange if I were to get in the way of the Minister of Education and comment on his regular field of expertise in the context of a growth debate over the next 30 years. That would be strange.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u358	Mr. Moorlag, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u359	(NL) Mr President, we are receiving a letter with a very specific educational component. It is part of the government's economic investment agenda. Then may I assume that I am talking to a ruler who can talk back about the substance of motions that we are tabling here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u360	Certainly, and my substantive story is that it is not at the moment a question of doing something that is possibly just a regular policy in the context of a growth letter. What we are saying is that there will be an impact on these areas. Then the govern ment, in coordination with the rest of the cabinet, including myself, will make statements on what direction that might take and what kind of proposals could be accepted in it. But this is an appeal to the Minister of Trade to look in a certain direction. I don't want to do that to that colleague without consulting him. I would find that strange in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u361	There are two more motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u362	The Moorlag motion in part No. 11 and the Van Otterloo motion in part No. 14 overlap with commitments I've already made. The motion in part No. 11 calls on the government to draw up concrete plans for lifelong learning. That's one of six areas. In this debate, I undertook to give this further effect before the summer as an interim report and to have it ready at the end of this cabinet period. That's the cabinet's commitment. What the motion in part No. 14 on the further implementation of the increase in labour productivity: that is what the whole growth letter is about, with all the details. I have already made that commitment, partly in writing. I believe that the motion is superfluous and therefore I should like to discourage it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u363	So both the motion in part no. 11 as the motion in part No. 14 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u364	Yes, these run in parallel with the commitments I made. I do not think that this need to be confirmed separately by motion. I think a lot of these things can come back in one form or another in the discussion about the organisation of the fund, and then in the operationalisation of the fund. After that, proposals will be accepted every year. I can imagine that triggers debates again. That too seems to me to be a time to talk about all these things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u365	Mr Moorlag, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u366	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I believe I understand that the Minister for Lifelong Learning said that this would be something that should be further developed by the next government in the forthcoming cabinet formation. Can I now understand from him that this motion is superfluous because what it says, namely that this government is making plans, is superfluous and that this government is going to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u367	I thought I said clearly what we're gonna try, but I apologize. We're going to look at all the themes and as far as next Cabinets that need to pick up, policy options are set up and developed so that a next Cabinet can make a flying start with them. That means this cabinet has a job to do. It needs to develop variants to see how that could be done, maybe one, maybe two, maybe three variants where subsequent Cabinets can make choices so that they can make a flying start on these kinds of themes. This is actually a long way to say yes to Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u368	That concludes this debate. Mr. Moorlag, it's slowly becoming a repeat of moves. Even an outsider like me hears the arguments come along in a different way every time. So unless you really have a completely different addition... You disagree. That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u369	I think I have one, Mr. Chairman. I'm asking for plans, and the Minister's talking about variants. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u370	Well, that's the bouncer of the evening. Does the Minister still want to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u371	Well, we're going into words now. No, I don't think this is gonna work any further. I think it's clear what I'm up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u372	We'll be in touch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-36.u373	Thank you very much to the Minister for coming to the Chamber and to my colleagues.
