ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now turn to Mr Koopmans on behalf of the VVD. I see the Foreign Minister has also arrived. I'd like to welcome him. Mr Koopmans' question concerns the trial of foreign IS'ers by Kurds. Mr. Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's about the trial of ISIS fighters, of horrible terrorists in Syria. We all know about these horrible beheading videos, but the ISIS fighters are responsible for many more horrible things. Genocide, mass murder, torture, gang rape, it's horrible. Then it is unbelievable that there are Dutch people who have volunteered to join them, even more so, who have travelled there to participate in these horrible crimes. Fortunately that has stopped now and we can be very proud that the Netherlands has fought against ISIS with many other countries and that our F-16s have also bombed along; the people who did so are heroes. Now the ISIS fighters need to be tried locally, says the VVD. That's good for the next of kin, because then they can see that justice is being done. It's also good because there's the evidence. So it's much better to try the people there. It's also a good thing they're in jail there. Then they can't spread their poison in Dutch prisons. The Syrian Kurds, who have a degree of autonomy, have now said that we want to try them locally. That is legally complicated, but that kind of problem needs to be solved. What can the cabinet do to help the Syrian Kurds practically to bring the ISIS fighters to justice locally?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I very much agree with Mr Koopmans that the crimes committed by IS deserve all the persecution and the use of all the instruments we can use to do so. This is also the reason why the cabinet has a number of trails with a whole number of other European countries in order to allow this persecution and trial. Our great preference has trial in the region. Mr Koopmans rightly points out that there are witnesses and victims there as far as they are alive. They can bear witness to what has been done to them. In this way we can also do justice to the suffering that has taken place there. The great preference is for an international tribunal in the region, as it has been possible in the past, but unfortunately the UN Security Council, which should take the initiative, does not support it. In addition, the Netherlands, in consultation with other countries, has explored the option that rail is still running that is being tried by the government, the Iraqi authority, setting a number of conditions on which no agreement has yet been reached. Last week we received the message that the leadership of the Kurds in Syria, the Syrian Democratic Forces, would now proceed to trial. That's a new signal. In any case, it is very worthwhile in contact with the Kurds but also in contact with the other countries with which the Netherlands cooperates and who also run into these questions of trial, to see what this communication of last week means in practice. I would therefore like to contact the other European countries. The Syrian Democratic Forces have a representation in Europe. It is not a sovereign state, so there is no diplomatic relationship. But of course we can ask them for an explanation of the offer made. So that's the trail we'll use. Once we have collected that information, Mr Koopmans' question can be answered, namely whether there can be practical support. As Mr Koopmans knows, last summer I received an opinion from the international advisor, who outlined a number of possibilities for trial, including the legal dilemmas or questions to be answered. This scenario is also one of the options outlined in that report. He also points out that there are a number of legal questions. It is not an internationally recognised state and there is no existing legal system with judges and a code of conduct. So there are certainly a lot of questions to answer. But at the same time it is very worthwhile to establish that contact. So that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-4.u5	I am pleased that the Minister is actively pursuing, if I understand him correctly, what he can do with the European partners and, in my view, with the Americans to bring that local trial. I would like to ask whether the Minister could also talk to, for example, his colleague in the Ministry of Justice and Security about whether we could possibly share the legal files of those Syrians, those ISIS terrorists, and whether we might be able to support NGOs who may be active on the ground to help with that local trial. So the question is whether we can do as much as we can to find practical ways, despite the legal problems, of ultimately bringing those people to justice where they committed their horrible, horrible crimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-4.u6	In such a trial, making evidence available is, of course, crucial. This may consist of witnesses who are likely to be able to organise themselves by the Kurdish authorities, but other evidence may also be available. The Netherlands plays an active role in the evidence collection organisations set up internationally for both Iraq and Syria. One of the questions that will be raised in the reconnaissance I have just announced is: can the evidence gathered there play a role in such a trial by the Kurdish authorities? That will be a long list of points to be discussed. I understand the great desire, including the government, to move forward, but since we only have an early report from last week, I cannot yet give a concrete answer to the question of what evidence we can provide. But it is certainly the case that the Netherlands plays a major role in gathering sufficient evidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-4.u7	I would also like to ask the Minister if he can take with him what we can do in any way possible, including with local NGOs. Could we perhaps release money from the development budget to build the Kurds' rule of law so that they can bring those people to justice there? I would ask him to look for solutions in every possible way, including the legal problems he mentions. Because we have to solve legal problems so that we can finally see that justice is being done there. Could the Minister send a letter to the Chamber in a few weeks' time to inform us of everything he has done and of what solutions he sees so that the victims of these horrible terrorists can see that we are doing everything we can to do justice and to punish the criminals?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-4.u8	As I have indicated, the trial of those who committed these terrible crimes is a route that we must take with all our might. That is why, following last week's signal on the proposal for trial by the Syrian Democratic Forces, I indicated that we will contact them and other countries concerned to see what exactly the proposal means and how to meet a number of legal issues that are known to the Chamber. Then the question can also be answered as to whether we can provide support, financially or in practice. I can't answer that question right now. There is no doubt that I will know more in the short term, because these talks then took place. I myself will meet a number of colleagues from European countries who face the same question in Munich next weekend. This is a subject that I will specifically address. I am therefore prepared to send a letter within a few weeks in which I will indicate what we have learned about the Kurdish offer and what that means in practice for the persecution of the ISIS terrorists that everyone wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you for your questions, Mr. Koopmans. There is an interruption by Mr Van Helvert to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-4.u10	The CDA has long argued in favour of contacting the regional and local authorities in Syria to discuss trial. Terrorists can only be tried once for the same crime, so if they are tried, it must be done properly. That is why contact and sharing of our knowledge and skills are also necessary. I had tabled a motion asking you to contact me. The Minister asked me to hold that motion because he wanted to investigate things. Now is the time, and now the Minister says: I am going to contact my colleagues in Europe. In my view, that was precisely the reason for holding the motion, so I thought that was already going to happen. Does the Minister see the urgency? We must ensure that the Kurds bring these people to justice properly, because we cannot bring them to justice again, nowhere anymore, at any international tribunal, not even in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mr Van Helvert seems to suggest that there was no contact with European colleagues after his motion had been tabled. That's incorrect. The contact about the trial is frequent. The conclusion so far was that the option of trial by the SDF in Syria was not obvious, because other European countries saw the same legal objections as the international advisor. Mr Van Helvert has often asked for the advice of the international advisor in the past, so he knows them. There is no reason why, now that this new signal is being sent, we should not table with like-minded countries again and find out with each other: there is now a new fact; let us jointly see if this still offers a perspective. Mr Van Helvert is right when he says that we must ensure that the trial takes place eventually, and rightly so. That is also my full commitment to the discussions that we are about to start, both with the SDF and with the like-minded European countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-4.u12	Everyone understands that this is legally a road full of bumps, holes, pitfalls, foot-angles, clamps and you name it all. On the one hand, the Minister is right to say that he wants to consult with European colleagues. On the other hand, the trial should not take too long. He's got a lot of urgency. That is why I am asking the Minister with what intention he is going to discuss with his colleagues: is it his intention to support, where possible, the route envisaged by the Kurds, or is he still looking for other ways of bringing them to justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-4.u13	The intention is trial. I indicated the order of priorities. It still stands in front of me. The main route runs through the International Tribunal. In addition, there is still the possibility of trial by Iraq. And this is a new opportunity. I am going to explore them very seriously, because justice is ultimately the goal, and any method that can provide for this in a way that can pass the test of criticism.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Mr Bishop rightly points out that there are a number of legal questions here. It is not an independent country, there is no existing legislation and there is no existing judiciary. So it's a complicated route. That is also outlined in the external international legal advice. But that does not lead me to the conclusion: leave it alone. That leads me to conclude: recently, we are seriously entering into this discussion, and with the Kurds and other countries, to see if we can find a way forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-4.u14	It is good that at least the Minister has the ambition and the commitment to see if we can find a legal goat path to allow that trial to take place in the region. I would just like to say to the Minister that it is still a question of whether these women can be tried. I am referring to the female ISIS fighters, because they are apparently excluded by the Kurds. I really hope that the Minister will come out with his colleagues and with the SDF here in Europe. Is the Minister, at the same time, perhaps already able or willing to see if we could provide practical help? The Kurds have been holding them in those camps for a number of years now. There's a lack of everything. What could this minister and his colleague Kaag do for the Kurds at the moment in humanitarian terms? And I'm referring to the future, perhaps, of building prisons.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-4.u15	The answer to the question of what we can do for the Kurds in a practical sense is really linked to the discussions we are having about this trial. The interpretation of that judgment and the legal questions behind it also answer the question of whether we can provide financial support for that trial. I have had extensive debates with the Chamber on support for non-state actors and the legal questions that this raises. And it was the Chamber that kept asking me to ask for external legal advice and to keep an eye on international law. Mr Voordewind recognizes that. So those questions play here, too. That is no reason not to take any steps, but it does outline how complicated the Chamber has always found these questions and how complicated they are at the moment. So we agree. So we're going to explore that very carefully to see if we can find a solution. There is no difference of opinion about the ambition to ensure that these men and women, as far as I am concerned, are tried for their misdeeds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-4.u16	Thank you.
