ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the Law 34986, Supplementing and amending the Environmental Law, repealing some laws on the physical environment, amending other laws and regulating transitional law for the introduction of the Environmental Law, i.e. the Environment Act, as well as the draft Decision 34986, letter D, draft Introduction Decision Environment Law. I would like to welcome the Minister for the Environment and Living again to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Rietkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. People like to live safe and happy and enjoy the quality of space around them and the dynamics of the cities. They want to enjoy the space, the green and the peace. They want to undertake. That requires quality of living environment. Social challenges, such as enough homes to live, companies to work, agricultural and horticultural companies for our food, space for energy transitions and recreational areas with nature, call for consideration in our living environment. The National Environment Vision, abbreviated the NOVI, aims to provide a sustainable perspective for our living environment. This will enable us to respond to the major challenges and societal challenges ahead. Combining all these challenges requires a new way of working, not imposed from above, but in good cooperation between governments, companies, knowledge institutions, civil society organisations and citizens. I quote: not imposed from above, as stated in the NOVI. Can the Minister explain the Government's response: "Some directives, such as the Habitats Directive and the Air Quality Directive, contain mandatory balancing frameworks that the Netherlands cannot deviate from. The rules within the system of the Environment Act specify where national policy freedom is restricted by European standards and rules." And the other answer: 'NOVI states that national interests are in principle all of equal importance'. What's that supposed to mean? Moreover, the NOVI provides a framework, gives direction and should make national choices where necessary. On parts that is really necessary as far as we are concerned. I have already mentioned the theme of "living." With the NOVI and the Environment Act, we are launching a process that allows us to make choices for our living environment faster and better. Together we build a more beautiful and stronger Netherlands. For the spatial design of the Netherlands we need a reliable government. The municipal interests get a place in the municipal environmental visions, the provincial interests get a place in provincial environmental visions and the national interests get a place in the National Environment Vision. For example, building a more beautiful Netherlands requires strong connections between municipalities, provinces, water boards and the government to organize as a government in connection with citizens, residents, entrepreneurs and civil society organisations. Crucial for Christian democracy is the way in which the government creates order, organizes, in which people and organisations give as much substance as possible to social ownership. A combination of these shared responsibilities and the decentralised unitary state come together in the spatial design of the Netherlands. Then we think that we are based in the Christian democracy on trust in people, people and social relationships, where the government is based on 'decentralised what can' and 'centrally what must'. For people and entrepreneurs, it is particularly important that there is decisiveness and clarity. That is also at the heart of this legislation. Through these Christian Democrat glasses our group looks at the spatial design of the Netherlands, the National Environment Vision, and the intention of the instrument case, which is necessary for this, the Introduction Act Environment Act. The CDA supports the intention of the Environment Act and its four objectives. First of all: from a mess of rules to a clear and predictable system that is easy to use. Two: from a sectoral to a coherent approach to the environment in policy, decision-making and regulation. Three: more space for area-oriented customization and making own considerations. Four: faster and better decision-making on projects in the physical environment. These objectives are requested by Mr Otten in an interruption and are also supported by all groups in both the Second and First Chambers when it comes to the Environment Act, with the exception, at that time, of GroenLinks and the Party for Animals. When it comes to the Setting-up Act Environment Act, in which these objectives are also central, those goals in the Lower House are supported by all political groups The SP has started to move around and is now opposed to that law in the Lower House and we are now in charge of the treatment in the First Chamber. The CDA is looking not only at the current practice of the organisation, but also at the legislation and at the adage that you need to be reliable when it comes to taking positions in a pathway that does not last for one or two years, but decades. Mr. Chairman. A very good example in the spatial design of the Netherlands is the Gezondschappij IJsseldelta-Zuid. The IJsselmonding is a beautiful area in the area Zwolle and Kampen. This is a national example project in terms of participation, the involvement of residents and the strengthening of the quality of the environment. That started in 2007, so about thirteen years ago. It is now in full construction, with the Hanselijn, with the broadening of the N50, with more than 300 hectares of new nature, with 40 hectares of Natura 2000 and also the first climate dike in the Netherlands and twice 600 houses, with a connection to water sports, with bike paths, with hiking trails. In 2007, 2008, 2009 and beyond, 18 main licences were required and 160 execution permits were needed with decisions. That is the practice of the past and also of today in part. This is also covered by the Environmental Law. The inhabitants suffered a lot from these many sectoral permits. They want more clarity. They had no overview, a mess of rules, which are also difficult to fathom. But also for municipal and provincial directors as well as for the government and the Lower House it was a long and complex trajectory and project. In this project, too, environmental legislation has become a patchwork of substantive and procedural rules, which is fragmented across the three levels of government in many laws, AMvBs, ministerial regulations, regulations and further decisions. It is really difficult for citizens, but also for entrepreneurs, politicians and administrators, to find a way in the current regulatory complex to achieve a coherent policy. Can the government, I ask through the chairman, indicate that such a project will be implemented more clearly, more clearly and more quickly in the future by the Environment Act? As an experienced expert in this project, as a resident and former director in the IJsseldelta, I would also like to contribute to this debate. Mr. Chairman. Before I address various issues on behalf of the CDA Group, our group needs to raise a persistent misunderstanding. In the run-up to this debate, various groups and also in the media have suggested that there would be decentralisation under the Environmental Act. The second point is that the Environment Act is mentioned in one breath with the decentralisations of youth care, the Youth Act, and long-term care, the Wmo. And third, there's going to be some kind of wild west in spatial planning. I quote one of our colleagues. The CDA Group strongly distances itself from this. The tasks and powers of the physical environment are already largely in the hands of the local authorities. The system of spatial planning is at its core a municipal issue. Traditionally, municipalities have provided guidance, for example through building regulations, street plans and expansion plans. A decentralised approach has always been the starting point for the important legal instruments in spatial planning. For many years this has been based primarily on municipalities. However, due to social challenges, spatial planning is now a task for three levels of government, because the province and the Empire also have an emphasis on responsibility and there will be harmonious cooperation. Unlike decentralisation in the social domain, the revision of environmental law is not about shifting tasks and powers to local authorities. The Advisory Section of the Council of State also notes this in its opinion on the proposed legislative proposal. In the reply, the government explained this. That's what I'm referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u4	In replying to the questions, the Minister indicated two ways of decentralising. One concerns decentralisation of tasks and the other concerns decentralisation of tasks. Within the tasks of local authorities, i.e. managing the spatial domain at local level, they are given much more responsibility for a lot of rules that now lie with the Empire. Then it is possible that local authorities will be burdened with this Environmental Act much more heavily?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u5	The core of decentralisation is the shift of tasks and powers from the Empire to municipalities and provinces. This shift of tasks and powers does not take place through the Environment Act, also in the view of the said section of the Council of State. That has happened for the past 15 years. The local government can offer more scope within the legal framework or provincial instruction rules appropriate to the population. That's a fact, but that's what we all want. The citizens want to be heard and also want to participate. There must be room for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u6	Again, in response to the CDA's response: can it be that local authorities are burdened much more heavily with this Environmental Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u7	Not at the core. The intention of the Environment Act is to make it more transparent, more insightful and also to support digitally. This means that the municipalities, which have traditionally already had these tasks, can take this up in cooperation with provinces and the Empire.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u8	Mrs Kluit in the third instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u9	Mr Rietkerk now mentions a number of conditions that we heard a lot about last night and will hear a lot about today. There are still a lot of hooks and eyes on the digital system that have not been removed in the response. The question is, is this how it's gonna work? I have the following question for Mr Rietkerk. If it doesn't work properly, if it's not the ideal scenario, but the middle scenario or the worst case scenario, then those local authorities will indeed be heavily burdened. We do not know what the cost is. We can indeed burden these local authorities with a lot of costs and a lot of extra work. We can't see that right now, can we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u10	This change in the instrument case of the Environment Act requires a cultural change and quality of local authorities, on which we agree. I'll be back at the DSO later, because I have a few concerns about that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u11	It is true that, as is said on the part of the CDA, environmental law, the building permit, was always with the municipality. We talked yesterday about something new. Mrs Klip said that again. We are now getting an integral balance. There will be environmental rules in the environmental plan, in the environmental permit and so on. The instrument of authorisation still lies with B and W, but it is intended to become much more integral. There are questions that the municipality doesn't have to deal with at the moment, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u12	I mentioned the example of the IJsseldelta. The Municipality of Kampen has in fact had to consider, with the province, 18 main licences and 160 partial licences at that time, in 2007. So that was already the case at the time. The Environment Act is designed precisely to bring coherence. In particular, citizens want to know where they stand and not go through the procedure, which takes a very long time, by sector legislation and by sector licence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u13	So I hear Mr Rietkerk say: we are happy as CDA that it now comes into one permit. But that one permit comes from the county, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u14	When it comes to municipal policy and interests, but in a case that is above-municipality, you also have to deal with the province and the waterboard and the environmental service, wherever there are qualities, will provide the permit on behalf of the municipality. That is the interplay in spatial planning that I have been talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u15	Mr Nicolaï for the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u16	So I understand that the environmental service is now suddenly being pushed forward as the decisive body. That is quite amazing, but we are going to talk about that, because that is precisely the technocracy. But the responsibility is still with mayor and aldermen. I already did. Now we have a permit with a completely different content. I do not hear Mr Rietkerk talking about this. That was actually Mrs Kluit's question. It is a pity that people are closing their eyes to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u17	You continue your argument, Mr. Rietkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u18	The argument that the policy goes to the environmental services, I distance myself from that. The policy for spatial planning remains with the city council when it comes to the environmental vision. It is also a task of the First Chamber if it is up to the CDA Group to look closely, because it must be effective and effective. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she can respond to the thoughts and misunderstandings I have appointed. Can she confirm the CDA group in her mind? One of the improvements, as has just been said, is the administrative balancing area at the decentralised level. Based on the improvement of the quality of the environment, the CDA Group does have concerns about the improvement of the environment component. In dealing with the Natural Adaptation Act, we will have the debate on this with the government. That's what we're gonna let go of now. As far as we are concerned, the question will be raised as to whether the current Nature Protection Act, and in consequence the Nature Adaptation Act, is in line with the Environmental Law and its improvements. This is particularly true of the area at municipal and provincial level. Mr. Chairman. Now back to the Introduction Act Environment Act. On the basis of a number of themes, our group will work out how the intention of the Environmental Act is to be implemented and what its effects are. It is important to keep in mind the current situation and developments in practice in the field of spatial planning in recent decades. The first theme: involvement of people at the front and participation. The CDA Group, like other groups that have mentioned this theme, is committed to ensuring that participation is accessible to all. It is important for citizens to be able to contribute to the decision-making process on initiatives that affect or threaten to affect them. It is up to the competent authority to implement participation in its notification, in a process of participation or through a vision of participation. This provides a local basis for the citizens. Fortunately, the current participatory regulation of local authorities already offers scope to pursue a broad participatory policy. That's already happening, though not everywhere. In view of the debate with Mrs Nooren, the CDA Group has a supplementary question to the Minister. Can the Minister indicate the future added value of a participation regulation in relation to a public participation regulation and the possibilities already available to the city council, for example, by setting autonomous conditions for participation, coupled with an environmental vision? Can the Minister indicate the difference between these two, so the practice of today and the desired future? In terms of purpose, we agree, but the question is whether you need legislation to do so. By the way, we are in favour of participation and creative thinking about solutions. That is also what I indicated in the debate with the PVV Group. At present, regular participation is also taking place. The government states that the meaning of the Environment Act is that participation is given a more solid legal basis, which will make it commonplace. Can the Minister explain how this will benefit residents and entrepreneurs? The CDA Group recognizes, with the government, that good shaping of the participation process is not always easy. That depends on a theme, a subject, a project and a plan. For this reason, the Minister announced that he would hold consultations with the National Ombudsman. The CDA Group is curious about the outcome of that consultation. Furthermore, the House of Representatives has adopted two amendments to put citizens in a better position when it comes to participation. We think that this is a good improvement that the House of Representatives has made. The government, with the CDA Group, believes that citizens and civil society organisations should also be best involved in implementation guidance. That is why this year the government will offer a toolkit, it is written, that helps the competent authority to communicate about the Environment Act towards its residents and organisations. Can the Minister indicate what she means by the said communication toolkit? In the absence of specific procedural requirements for participation, the court relies on general principles of law, such as, for example, the requirement of careful preparation, the principle of due diligence; the requirement of a proper balance of interests and proportionality, the principle of proportionality, and the requirement of a robust statement of reasons, the principle of motivation. Does the administrative judge assess this on the basis of Articles 3.2, 3.4 of the General Administrative Law Act? Is there any case law on this? That is what the CDA Group would like to see answered by the Minister. Then the Digital System Environment Act. First of all, I would like to point out that we will be joining a number of questions that have been asked before, especially those that still come from Mr Verkerk. Furthermore, in addition to the quarterly demonstrations on the operation of the DSO and the experiences of users, the programme Getting started with the Environment Act also organises quarterly inter-administrative sessions for public authorities. We understand that's spread all over the country. Those sessions got a name, namely the batting sessions. That sounds very firm and action-oriented. So, how's the batting sessions going? Can the Minister say a little more about that? The national provision of the digital system will then be phased out in 2020. That's a process that goes step by step. Most of the remaining data from the basic level will be achieved in the first half of 2020, such as the archival function and the automatic submission of a paper application. In the progress letter of 29 November and the annex that you sent to the First Chamber, we were again informed about the steps taken with the DSO in 2020 and about the minimum criteria for implementation required for entry into force. In two quarters in 2020 it will be examined whether the developed software actually works. This is crucial for the CDA Group. For citizens, entrepreneurs and those who want to make use of environmental legislation, it is crucial that the developed software works in the ICT system, in the DSO. The CDA Group wants a commitment from the Minister that there is more clarity about this in the last progress letter prior to the discussion of the Royal Decree. And now for the permit check. A citizen who acts in good faith and completes the correct data may generally assume that the outcome of the permit check is accepted by the competent authority. Can the Minister indicate how that works? After the entry into force, it is no different than it actually is now, in the case of a facility such as the Environment Window online and the Activity Decision Internet Module, or a paper application. Absolute and irrevocable security shall, of course, be obtained only after the submission of an application and the decision received from the competent authority. If the CDA sees this correctly, I ask the Minister. Moreover, the Administrative Court Department of the Council of State has repeatedly expressed its views on the legal status of the outcome of an authorisation check in the Environment Window online. In this connection, the section considered that the rules in force determine the requirement for authorisation and that a citizen cannot rely solely on a permit check, partly because the outcome depends on the data supplied by the citizen himself. What does this statement mean for the DSO, according to the Minister? The finances of the DSO. Financially, the redevelopment is covered by the task-setting annual management budget of 25.9 million plus indexation jointly brought up by the State and local authorities. Upgrading means adding substantial new functionality and/or content that is not yet in the base level. In the meantime, the agenda has been formulated inter-administratively and we understand that 50 million is available for a multiannual period. Is that right? I thought that the SP Group also asked a question about this, namely whether there is a 50 million hole. I understand that it is now covered on a multiannual basis, but I would like to hear a reply from the Minister. Can the Minister further indicate that by January 2011, when it should come into force, there will no longer be any financial problems for the DSO in relation to that basic level? The role of the government. The Empire and the administrative domes have jointly made financial agreements on the introduction of the new policy. These agreements apply to all municipalities, provinces and water boards. In financial terms, the entry into force of the scheme on 1 January 2021 is important, so that the benefits of the new system can be reaped from that point on. I would ask the Minister if there are any financial problems with the implementation of the agreement. And if so, where does the Minister see it and how does the Minister intend to resolve it? The provinces want to be able to publish their draft regulation in line with the new standards in the second quarter of 2020 and by the end of 2020 they want to do so in line with the final vision. That fits the planning as the government sees it and as we see it. According to the Minister, is this gonna work? I ask this because the content of an environmental regulation will largely result from the content of the provincial environmental visions and regulations under the Environment Act and in particular from the instructions contained in the Quality of Living Environment Decision. Mr. Chairman. The municipalities will have to work out a number of tasks and have to be ready by January 2021. That has to do with the environmental plan. By the way, they have the time for this at the actualization until 2029, so: rather tomorrow, but fortunately there is also time for those municipalities that have some problems with it. We can see that too, because a number of municipalities do not manage to do so in time. But you don't have to, because you have until 2029 as a municipality. This has to do with the digital applications and the further processing of applications for the environmental permit. Furthermore, the municipalities also have their own permits, the smaller permits. They will also have to have them in order in terms of authorisation and reporting. The criteria set out by the government in the written replies, the minimum criteria and the legal obligations apply to all municipalities in the Netherlands and provide an adequate guarantee to ensure that all municipalities can participate sufficiently. What is the Minister going to do with those municipalities that can't live up to this ambition they want? The environmental services. The CDA Group considers the proper functioning of robust environmental services to be crucial for the implementation of the enforcement of laws and regulations. Environmental services carry out many tasks in licensing, enforcement and supervision. The CDA Group has asked questions to the government about the growing deficit in the Municipal Fund due to the stair-on-strap-afsystematiek and insufficient spending according to the state budget in 2019. In our view, there is a financial risk here. This has to do with the deficits of municipalities in the social domain, for example, because if, as in 2019, government spending is also lagging behind in 2020, because of the Gemeentefonds, there is a threat of a larger financial deficit among the municipalities. And that could be just like that, given the PAS discussion and the nitrogen discussion. Can the Minister address that risk and how it deals with it in relation to municipal investment, including for robust environmental services? Can the Minister further indicate how she deals with these threatening problems and the quality of the 5,500 employees of these robust environmental services? There will be a need to invest in professionalism and cultural change. Municipalities and initiators of activities should be able to use the knowledge and expertise of the environmental services in policy weighing as part of the planning process. Have agreements been made with the municipalities and the environmental services on advice and on their financing? Can the Minister further indicate whether opportunities have been created to obtain relevant environmental data from those environmental services for all? Legal protection. During the round of questions a lot of questions have already been asked about legal protection. The CDA Group has a few more questions. A new benchmark herein is the final verdict of the Administrative Law Division of the Council of State of May 2019. It appears that a new line has been introduced, in which a legitimate trust can be derived from statements and behaviours of officials rather than before. It is necessary to await what that means for the permit check and the case law that has been established in that regard. The Government considers it conceivable that, if in good faith is acted on the basis of a clear outcome of a concrete and detailed permit check, but the competent administrative body nevertheless finds an infringement of applicable rules, a successful recourse to the principle of trust will be considered. The question then needs to be answered as to the significance of the confidence generated in the exercise of enforcement powers. This raises the question of the extent to which the successful application of the principle of trust, including in the light of the interests of third parties, may lead to the infringement being tolerated, whether or not it is wholly or partly indemnifying the persons concerned in the event of the infringement being reversed. We have a question about this, because the answers say that it is sometimes necessary to ask for a permit for an activity requested in order not to get into trouble as a resident or entrepreneur. What does this mean for an SME entrepreneur and for a resident? And now, for all things, does a veil have to be answered by the competent authority before a permit is needed? Can the Minister clarify that? The workload. The Court of Justice indicates that the workload will increase. I agree with a number of observations made by colleagues. If the workload is the question of whether it is, but it will certainly increase more in the beginning than previously estimated, then the Ministry of the Interior, in consultation with other ministries and policy departments, will agree on the distribution of costs. Can the Minister confirm that the Minister for Spatial Planning, as coordinating minister, is taking the lead in answering questions that will arise about this possible situation? Furthermore, the CDA Group would like to see this development reflected in an annual evaluation report prepared by an independent committee. I shall come back to that at the end of my speech. Monitoring. The CDA Group notes that half-yearly reports are being carried out and with some kind of implementation monitor to be established. In fact, I agree with Mrs Klip's questions about the need for an integrated monitor to identify progress in time. I do have a supplementary question. Today, we are living in a digital age and can the Minister therefore also comment on the possibility of making such a monitor available digitally more quickly? When a monitor enters the Chamber, it is often out of date. We can then say: that is good, because that means that there is progress in it. But it is very difficult for a controlling body to have the proper debate. After all, we still live in the past. We want to live in the present and look to the future! As far as the evaluation is concerned, the CDA Group also asks, on behalf of the political groups of VVD, 50PLUS, D66, GroenLinks, Forum for Democracy and the Christian Union, and in line with the PvdA Group, why there are no guarantees in the law for an independent evaluation, while the government is pursuing it. The government supports the importance of an independent review of the law in the further report following the opinion of the Council of State. The government has not seen any reason to further define the independence of the evaluation in the law itself. The government has it in the middle, even after three rounds of questions, and the CDA Group has been asking for it every time. Why doesn't the government like this? And why does the government always give a procedural answer, without going into the substance of the need for this independent evaluation? Instead, we get a process answer in the sense that we first need to gain experience with laws, AMvBs, regulations and that kind of thing, and that we can then possibly look at it. We will not settle for that. The CDA Group is committed to setting up an independent evaluation committee to present the annual evaluation of the Environmental Law cum suis, also in view of the monitoring figures. On this point, the CDA Group is asking for a commitment from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Before I finish two more points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u19	Mr. Chairman. Could Mr Rietkerk comment on whether, as part of that monitoring and evaluation, environmental impact assessments should also be included in the new instruments of the Environment Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u20	Yes, I think the monitor is integral and then it is not just about the plan EIAs, but also about the project EIAs and the development. We assume that there will be more integrated planning, which will reduce the need for sectoral impact assessments. That is an opinion, but the answer to the question is yes. Mr. Chairman. I was working on two points before I came to a conclusion. First of all, the disadvantage compensation component. Mr Moonen of D66 asked a question about this. For the sake of clarity, we agree with these questions. We would like a clarification on this. And the second comment is: appreciation and thanks to the Minister and thus to all her advisers for the written information, all the questions that have been answered, the technical briefings. I would like to make the point that some of the questions are too procedurally answered, but they come back in the debate. But a lot of work has been done, so thank you for that. Mr President, I am really coming to a conclusion. In addition to a number of commitments I have asked for, we have four points, which I can briefly point out. Before we reach a judgment on the Environment Act, which we are basically opposed to, because we see the glass as more than half full, we need a response to a number of questions and a number of commitments on points on which we want clarity. On a number of issues, we would like to ask the Minister to come up with a good and clear basis in the final progress letter before we deal with the proposal for the entry into force of the KB. That has to do with the DSO, we have talked about this before. We want a realistic picture of the situation by the end of 2020 in that progress letter, and we want to give citizens access a place in it. Other colleagues have also mentioned or discussed this. We also think that the robustness of the environmental services is crucial, and we also support the troubleshooters team or support team Mr Dessing mentioned, as well as, of course, the independent evaluation committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u21	I have a similar question for Mr Rietkerk. Is part of the progress letter as far as you are concerned also insight into the costs of implementation practice, the reporting that is now planned for autumn 2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u22	Yes, we also want a financial overview of the investments that are needed for multiannual management and maintenance. This means that we have asked the Minister what is the responsibility of the Empire and what is laid down by local authorities. I have expressed my concern about the municipalities. So we also want a financial insight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u23	And wider than just the DSO, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u24	I do not know how wider, but on the issues we have identified, we want financial insight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u25	Mrs. Kluit, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u26	The report is also about how much extra work there is, for example, due to this additional regulation and what it requires from municipalities. I expect this at least from the cost of implementation practice in municipalities. If I explain it that way, will you go along with it? Does Mr. Rietkerk go along with that? Sorry, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u27	Not only for municipalities, but also for those robust environmental services, because they are about licensing, enforcement and supervision when it comes to more complex licensing. Look, that hairdressing permit, the city can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u28	The question of timing. Does Mr Rietkerk share the view of the Labour Party that it makes sense to talk about the introduction of the KB here when there is an image of it? It is now said that the introduction of the KB should come before the summer, but if that information is not available until later, does that mean that we can only talk about the introduction of the KB here later?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u29	I would like to have the Minister's answer that we will receive informed information on the five points I mentioned and some of the points that colleagues have raised in good time for the discussion of the CF. Then we can start the treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u30	Timeliness is a theme, but it is also about the content and quality of that progress report. Such reporting shall be such that it makes sense to have the introduction KB in place. Now it says 'before the summer the introduction of the KB', but I think Mr Rietkerk shares my party's view that it makes sense to talk about this only if there is an adequate answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u31	On behalf of the CDA Group, I have referred to this as 'a substantiated and realistic answer', and then we can also show our strength, especially to Mr Otten, because he was already looking for why we are doing it here. Deadweight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u32	Thank you, Mr. Rietkerk. I shall now turn to Mr Van Dijk, who will speak on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We can now look back on a number of very beautiful and substantive contributions in the first term. One of the nicest, at least in terms of form and opening, was my colleague Janssen, who opened with the famous French novelist Marcel Proust, on the basis of a few works by him. I liked that very much in this connection, because as my colleague probably knows, Proust was extremely sensitive to his environment. He was hyperallergic to dust, he was severely asthmatic, he couldn't stand sound either. He slept in a soundproofed room. Very nice, because Proust had certainly found something of this Environment Act. Anyway, I didn't want to start with Proust, I wanted to start with Goethe. I'm quoting him. "If you had to study all the laws, you wouldn't have time to violate them." I think those are very true words. Can the Minister assure the Chamber that this was not her intention in the major legislative operation that we are now negotiating? Mr. Chairman. First some fundamental notions and questions of the SGP. The Council of State included critical notes in framework laws in its annual report for 2018. There is less legal certainty for citizens in relation to administrative room for manoeuvre. The council warned against the transfer of legislative power from parliament to government. I quote: "This role concept of the legislator puts pressure on the legal framework..... the foundation for legislation................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Council states that it is too easy to ignore the fundamental question of whether the choice of framework legislation is justified in any case, given the social issue to be settled. I quote: 'The Environment Act is the clearest and most far-reaching example of this'. The advisory body notes that a simple calculation shows that 95% of the regulation is not created by the legislator, but by the government, with unprecedentedly large administrative policy space. Are you sure you're getting enough support? I would like to hear the Minister's response to this fundamental criticism one more time. The SGP has advocated looking at the inclusion of important standards in the Environmental Act itself in the run-up to the Introduction Act. That didn't really happen. I would also like a reflection from the Minister on this. Mr. Chairman. The Environment Act encourages inter-administrative cooperation on the basis of beautiful future plans. Mr Rietkerk used the beautiful word "competence" many times. That's true. In this context, Minister Ollongren has previously spoken about liquid public administration, and absolutely, there is indeed a great deal of cooperation needed to tackle the major challenges. It should not, however, be the case that this should remove responsibilities and administrative liability and undermine the democratic legitimacy of decisions. Minister Ollongren mentioned in her recent Van Poeljelecture the regional energy strategies that are being drawn up. They have a clear environmental component, but no legal status with associated safeguards. The intention is that such an energy strategy will be reflected in environmental regulations and environmental plans. In the National Environment Vision (NOVI), the instruments are referred to as environmental agendas and NOVI areas. It's meant to stimulate cooperation, but they're not in the Environment Act. I would like to hear from the Minister how it is going to be avoided that directors are going to hide behind higher agendas and strategies and that democratic legitimacy is also liquidating as a result of increasing intergovernmental cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u34	May I ask the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats how it points this out. You mention a number of examples. I mentioned them, too. How do you yourself indicate this movement?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u35	It's a very fair question, but it's also a difficult one for me. I'm not asking the Minister that question for nothing. I fully recognise the need for intergovernmental cooperation, which rightly encourages the Environment Act. My question is how we keep the balance so that it does not undermine democratic legitimacy. Frankly, this is also a genuine question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u36	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u37	Then there are a number of questions about parts of the legislation. I'll start the preparation procedure. The Second Chamber adopted an amendment allowing the competent authority to apply the extended preparation procedure instead of the shorter regular procedure. This possibility is limited to activities which may have significant effects or which are subject to concerns by different stakeholders. Of course, these conditions can be explained in a number of ways and may also become a political toy. Does the Minister share the SGP's view that these should be exceptional cases? The Environmental Law and the Environmental Regulations determine after amendment by the Dutch Parliament that when applying for an environmental permit, it is necessary to indicate whether and, if so, how consultation with the environment has been conducted. The idea behind it is very sympathetic, but there is also a risk of unclearness and unnecessary noise in the application procedures. Let me give you a concrete example of how to get it right. Take the placement of a rooftop chapel. Surely it is not the case that this should always be discussed with the neighbours, let alone that consent is needed? I would like to make a further comment on this point. The SGP questions the way in which the cabinet deals with shadow damage and indirect planning damage. The cabinet shifts the moment of determination of the loss of value and associated compensation from the planning stage to the moment of authorisation or action. On top of that, it is not a conservative estimate of the normal social risk, a flat rate of 2%, but an increase in the standard rate of 4%. The Council of State was pretty critical about this. An environment vision can cast all its shadow and influence the value of homes and the possibilities for business development and an environmental plan even more. I note the following and the question is whether we want to do so. In practice, therefore, citizens and businesses are going to get more shadow damage and indirect planning damage without compensation. The Minister states in the written response that the impact of the environmental plan on interim value fluctuations will be limited. Indeed, in general this will be the case, but in particular cases this may be different. I'm worried about that. We have 355 municipalities and millions of buildings. This number of special cases may still be high. The Minister indicated that it would be desirable for environmental plans to be completed globally and that compensation for damage to plans would hinder this. Indeed, but the point is that, even if an environmental plan on parts is specifically completed, you still have no right to compensation. Is there not a middle way between the current situation with compensation for indirect planning damage and a minimum margin of 2% and the rather firm line of the Minister of no compensation for indirect planning damage and a flat rate of 4%, apart from the shadow damage of environmental vision? Can the Minister investigate this in some way? In particular, I would like to stress the following. Let us not forget that the prospect of reasonable compensation, compensation, can improve the cooperation of the parties in spatial development, with all the acceleration that this can entail. I have some questions about the introduction. There is a discussion between lawyers about whether the provincial environmental regulation can be prepared and adopted even before the Environment Act enters into force. One says that it happens more often in this way and the other says that in this particular case the extended preparation procedure applies, but it does not yet have a legal basis. There was an exchange of views on this subject in the written round. To make it equally clear to myself, how can the Minister guarantee that environmental regulations adopted before 1 January 2021 will not be destroyed? From 2021 old zoning plans will be frozen and as such transferred to the environmental plan. Piece by piece, the old rules are replaced by the new environmental rules. Experts wonder whether municipalities can cope with this step-by-step approach to always keep the desired integrality in mind. There is a chance that the choice will be made to start all kinds of changes of plans before 2021 and to work with derogations after 2021. Would it not be conceivable and feasible to give municipalities the space to tackle the environmental plan thoroughly and in the meantime keep the possibility to adapt the old zoning plan? Mr President, finally, the DSO. Mr Verkerk will be speaking on behalf of the SGP in a somewhat more detailed manner. I'll make a few key remarks. An important question, of course: is implementation feasible as of 1 January 2021? An important pillar of the new system is the DSO. During the last round table it was indicated that the DSO is still at a laboratory stage. Much has been done, but there is also a delay and a lot of work to be done, especially if you want to go to the ideal scenario in which all spatial information is insightful for initiators at the push of a button. Stakeholders indicate that more budget is needed to bring it to a successful conclusion. It also takes practice time for municipalities. To put it on edge: is the desire to start on 1 January 2021 not too much the father of the thought? Why does the Minister think it is justified when there is still so much work to be done? Is there gonna be an extra budget? Good intentions are not a guarantee of good results. Drivers and managers like to put on too sunny glasses. It should also be possible for civil servants on the work floor and for licence applicants to get away with it. Please be careful over speed. I look forward to the answer, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u38	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I call Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Janssen has started with Proust. We have just received Goethe in this room. I wish I could still read it all, but since I've been a member of this Chamber, I have to confine myself to the newspaper. Mr. Cliteur will understand that. We both come from science and love reading, but literature is no longer there. In the paper I saw something I want to quote. There was a very large piece above in the Volkskrant: "Designed by clowns led by monkeys." Now you might think I noticed that title because there were monkeys in it. Many in this house know which piece that head stood above, namely a big article about the Boeing 737 MAX. It was a quote from someone from the production process of that flying monster. Mr. Chairman. A clown is kidding us. He tries to make us believe in the impossible, but then, smash, there in the slopes of the circus it splashes apart and it turns out to be a figment with dramatic results. That will be the reason that Boeing's employees put the designers of the crash aircraft as clowns, because the safety of the plane turned out to be an air castle. Mr. Chairman. Whether you are building an aircraft or putting together a new large-scale legislative system, there is a similar dynamic in both projects; a dynamic of shoulders underneath, wasteners are not desirable. Designers want you to believe that the project is going to succeed; air castles, and flaws that are being covered up. As more people get involved, everyone has an increasing interest in making the long march to the end. Mr. Chairman. Let's look at the trajectory of the Environment Act. This has been given the allure of launching a new product by a large company, in which websites, advertising campaigns and support acquisition among alleged customers play an important role. Everything was and is aimed at cutting off any possible criticism that would lead to delay or even delay. Organising meetings in which IPO, VNG and the Union of Water Councils swear that no one should make it in his mind to delay the process, evokes the image of the large airfield in which it is announced with cheers that the Boeing 737 MAX should be in the air, "because we all do?" Get to work with the Environment Act! When it comes to security, a civilised society is fortunately provided with an external review body. That was for the Boeing 737 MAX the American FAA. But what happened there? Research by journalists has shown that this control agency was packed by Boeing, fooled, cheated and edited, perhaps with gifts here and there. Then it's gonna go wrong. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to us, the senators here, who are now in charge of deciding whether the air castle may ascend from the Environment Act. Are we, unlike the FAA, seriously going to do our checking and checking task? Are we able to withstand the pressure that is being exerted on us from all sides in order not to be obstructed now that we have already reached this stage? During the preparation of this plenary session and throughout the legislative process, many of my fellow senators were very critical, but now that the time of the decision is approaching, I sense discomfort, unrest, flight behaviour. Do we have to go into the wind with the warnings? Mr Janssen has already cited other legislative processes in which warnings have indeed been launched. These warnings can be found in the opinions of the Council of State and in the opinions of the Council of Justice. The National Ombudsman spoke about it, as did experts. Eventually there was also the article in the Dutch Juristenblad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u40	A very striking comparison between Mr Nicolaï and the Boeing 737 MAX, which indeed proved to contain all kinds of fatal construction errors and was still pressed through. My question, Mr President, to Mr Nicolaï is: what are in your observations as an expert - you are Professor of Administrative Law - the biggest structural errors in this Environment Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u41	If Mr Otten is okay with me continuing my speech, then I will be able to come up with all these structural errors. Perhaps the Jengators will fall with me, just like you, but not with Mr Dessing. If it happens, who's gonna be looking at it? We, and we need to keep a close eye on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u42	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u43	Mr. Chairman. This is not just one of the laws for which our consent is required. It is a very complex of laws that are merged, a legislative operation that you can compare with the creation of the new Civil Code or the General Administrative Law. These two legislative processes have taken decades. Work has been carried out with the greatest care: with preliminary drafts, committees of external lawyers, a build-up in instalments; with due caution. How different has it been with the system of the Environment Act? We've been hunted. It was just missing that on the parliamentary documents from the Ministry, there was a sticker with the text "to work with the Environment Act!" We were told that this was all about a policy-neutral transposition, but when we asked for it to be worked out in a schedule, there appeared to be a lot of cross-sections in headings other than those of 'policy-poor'. After this exciting trip, we are now about to say yes or no. Mr. Chairman. I see discomfort in many of my fellow senators. Deep down in their hearts, they feel that the chance of accidents is not negligible. The amount of questions that have been put to the Minister speaks volumes. Mr Verkerk spoke to me some time ago with the words 'you know, Peter, sometimes you just have to start'. That's exactly what the leaders at Boeing said along with the processed FAA controllers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u44	In comparison with Boeing, the phrase "direction" was just used. I find it very unfortunate to apply it to the Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u45	If questions aren't answered, I feel like they're being fooled. I can go into detail and show a number of questions to which a demonstrably incorrect answer has been given. That could be a mistake. I'm not saying we were fooled. I didn't tell Mr. Rietkerk that there were wrong games. In this comparison I wanted to point out that in this house we must carry out our crucial task in a very secure manner. I am glad that many questions have been asked by the fellow senators. This indicates that there is also unrest, because it is not entirely certain that it is all true. When are you not quite sure it's all true? If you don't feel like you've been given the right and complete information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u46	Some laws are so complex that you can never have the complete information. Behind the words "direction" lies an evil intention. I distance myself from that intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u47	It's not supposed to be like that. Let me say that on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u48	Excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u49	I think I was just talking about the clown who was running things around, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u50	Take the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u51	In all the groups I see a great concern about the position of the municipalities. That concern is justified. This concern is also shared in the opinions of the Council of State. Our group, like other groups, notes the following. The municipalities are facing a huge challenge. In all the zoning plans currently in force, more than 400 articles will be automatically inserted. That's the dowry. The municipalities themselves must for nine years receive that period for them to process those articles. They need to see what they're gonna take over, what they're not gonna take over, what they're gonna change and so on. That is a huge task. What struck me in the answer to the questions was that the government expressly acknowledges that in those nine years the municipality itself was responsible for the quality of the articles that it did not put in the environmental plan itself, but that it ended up in it from The Hague. Furthermore, smaller municipalities are likely to be played out against each other by major initiators. That's what we talked about yesterday. The law of the strongest has already been mentioned. Where does that right of the strongest come from? From a lack of legal standards. That is also exactly what the Council of State has put forward. Who's gonna take the fall for that? The smaller municipalities that are played out. I also note that because of the complexity and complexity the municipalities are actually handed over to technocrats. I heard Mr Rietkerk just say 'be happy, they have the environmental service', but that is not the point of course. An environmental service can give technical advice and provide technical solutions, but in the end we will talk about the democratic legitimacy and legitimacy that Mr Van Dijk also expressed his concern about. In the future, an alderman in a city council should be able to explain exactly what is the basis for all kinds of legal phrases given to him or her by the technocrats. That's where it's gonna go wrong in our eyes. Finally, there is insufficient technical knowledge and insufficient budget to meet this challenge. Several parties, including Mr Rietkerk, have already pointed this out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u52	Can Mr Nicolaï tell us how it has been at municipal level over the past ten years with regard to the legitimacy of planning plans, because that is what the council is for, and later the environmental plans, the environmental vision, in relation to the image he sketches that this Environment Act gives?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u53	I think that Mr Rietkerk and I will agree that if you now take a small zoning plan from any municipality, that is fairly clear, and that even as a layman you can understand quite well what is arranged there. In the end, it is only about the aspect of spatial planning. The environmental plan is going to regulate a lot more topics. I hope I'm not wrong about that, but I think that's what the Environment Act is all about, isn't it? All kinds of rules relating to the environment and law will also be included in the environmental plan and will be included in environmental permits, which will in many cases become customised. This means that the municipal board sits around the table with an initiator and then makes a planological and environmental assessment and then translates into an environmental permit. That is a very complex matter. I'm talking about this complex case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u54	Is Mr Nicolaï aware of the situation in a number of municipalities and provinces which have been pursuing integrated policies for many years, in the sense that spatial policy is linked to environmental policy and also to health and air quality? In implementation, it is indeed complicated when it comes to licences. But I am more concerned with the question of identity that you rightly ask, that now a municipality is not only looking at the spatial design of a zoning plan, but also at environmental issues and also at nature. Happy, I'd say. Is that what you think of me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u55	I'm very happy that local authorities are watching that, too. They have to look at that, so I don't even have to be happy, that's just an obligation. But what Mr Rietkerk overlooks is that this is now regulated by sector. If an initiator comes into a municipality and it is not extensively covered and regulated in the environmental plan, then there is actually an ad hoc environmental plan for that initiative. Everything's gonna be in there. That is where the questions of spatial planning come in, and that is where the questions of environmental law come in. That is such a complex whole that I say, as I have actually heard Mr Rietkerk say in his own speech, that it is in the hands of the environmental service or another paid agency specializing in this area. This is going to be a very technical development. In this technical way, my fear is that the conversation between the municipal council and the municipal council members will not end because an alderman will say: yes, that is beyond me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u56	Then I'll go to Mrs. Kluit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u57	Could Mr Nicolaï perhaps also say whether his concern relates to the issue of the complex environmental permit for outdoor activities, which you are talking about? That's a mini-environment plan, as you say. After five years, this should be mandatory in the environmental plan. People will then not be able to appeal or object because it is assumed that this has already been dealt with within the authorisation process. Is there a concern of yours there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u58	That is the concern that moves more in the field of legal protection. Of course there is a concern there, but that is also a concern expressed by the Council of State. Much more concerns have been expressed in the field of legal protection by the Council of State. It is precisely from a party such as D66, to which the minister belongs, that I would think this is an excellent subject that the party should keep a close eye on. I am very much afraid that there will be a development in this area where legal protection will actually be put in the fucking corner. I shall come back to that in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u59	I'm hearing some kind of negativity about that integral environmental vision. In my speech, I said that it is very important and that it is ultimately about how we are going to work it out. My question to Mr Nicolaï is: how?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u60	Mr Nicolaï, I would like a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u61	Yeah, short. I'd almost say otherwise we might have to switch with the minister. How? The way things are going now, because, if I may believe Mr Rietkerk, it is going very well in many cases, because we are actually already working in full. My big question is also why this whole castle was needed. That's the very first question you have to ask. It was also the first question I asked Mr Dessing: why do you start with those Jengasteenjes? If you say the procedures need to be speeded up, then you can just change the Law on Spatial Planning; then you can just change the Wabo. If you say more integral needs to be done, then you can arrange all of that. A structure has now been put together that looks very well on its own, on the drawing table, but we are now talking about the feasibility of that building. And we're talking about legal protection. We are perhaps talking about the holes that Mr Dessing also mentioned, the things that you pulled out. We must respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u62	I'm going to interrupt you. This is too long. Mrs. Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u63	I think there are two options. Whether we have a spatial planning system that is too narrow and we want to broaden it. That's the Environment Act, an integral vision, taking more perspectives. Or we're okay with it now, and then you say, "I'm not interested in this broadening." But it can't be that Mr Nicolaï says "Spatial Planning is too narrow"...................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Environment Act obliges parties to approach it widely. So I'd like to know the position of the Party for Animals in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u64	Mr. Nicolaï, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u65	You have not heard me say that I am against an integral consideration. I didn't say that. It's about the instrumentaries you design for that. With the instrument that has now been designed, we as the Party for Animals have very serious doubts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u66	This is a bit in line with Mr Nicolaï's little debate with Mr Rietkerk, but also with Mrs Nooren's questions. I heard Mr Nicolaï put it clearly 'now that we have regulated this sectorally and that works very well'. Then you say: 'I am not against an integrated approach'. We also had a little debate together last night about how you see that legislation is always a little behind developments in society. We see what comes to us, regardless of the fact that if you put what down, that has spatial implications and affects your subsurface, your water management, possibly your air quality, etc. Climate adaptation, improvement of biodiversity, the energy transition anyway all topics that certainly should appeal to you as a member of the Party for Animals are all topics that have spatial implications. Does Mr Nicolaï agree with us that if you look at the sector, you will be first years ahead, but you will not be able to reconcile all these developments? An integral consideration of course means that you have to make choices, because not everything you might wish for in one location. Then I understand. I see Mr Nicolaï nodding when I say this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u67	Would you like to finish, Mrs. Klip?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u68	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Then my question is: how can you say that it is well arranged now that the sector is regulated?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u69	Mr Nicolaï, I would like a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u70	Mr President, I refer again to the article in the Dutch Lawyers' Magazine, in which the people who work with that legislation say: we have no problem with that. That's one. The story that's been hung around the Environment Act is: it's all too complicated and we have to put it all together and we have to put it together. That has happened and that has created a very complicated system. That's my point. The second is the trade-off. You can use different instruments for that. You can also start by looking at how to make changes from the existing regulations. Then you're going to examine that step-by-step and maybe you're going to do an experiment. What we have now received is that a huge building has been built, and everyone shouts: "Get to work, get to work!" While we still have to judge that in the First Chamber, I have been hearing for seven years "the work of the Environment Act!" I don't like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u71	Mrs Klip (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u72	Mr President, I am doing my best. I still do not hear whether Mr Nicolaï is in favour of an integrated or sectoral approach. You say that we have now constructed a huge structure. Of course it's a complicated journey, no one's going to deny it, but why do we have it now? Why are we trying to organize that integral structure? Because over the years there has been increasing pressure on spatial development and space in our country, because we have always stacked regulation on legislation after regulation and it has gradually become so unclear that people and businesses no longer see the forest because of the trees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u73	Then Mrs. Moonen has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u74	I have a very specific question for Mr Nicolaï. Has Mr Nicolaï taken note of the final opinion of the Integrated Advisory Committee on Environment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u75	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u76	The follow-up question is: is Mr Nicolaï aware of the members of this full consultative committee, whose members are in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u77	I didn't quite understand what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u78	The question to Mr Nicolaï is whether he is aware of the members of the Integrated Advisory Committee on Environment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u79	I don't think I've looked at that specifically.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u80	I'm sure Mrs. Moonen knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u81	What might be good to know is that this is at least a part of it: Professor Bastmeijer, Professor of Nature Management Tilburg University, Professors Bregman and Van der Veen, but also a lot of people from practice, including a dike count, Hetty Klavers, and other people who have just come from public administration, worked in municipalities, have worked in provinces. They conclude in a final opinion that the legal structure of the Environmental Act is in itself firmly established.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u82	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u83	My question was whether Mr Nicolaï had taken note of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u84	That they say it's solid, yeah, I read that too. But that doesn't mean it's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u85	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u86	Mr. Chairman. I noticed that the monitoring data showed that almost half of the small municipalities could not indicate according to the survey, to be ready to start the Environment Act from 1 January 2021. As more than a hundred municipalities had not responded to the survey at all, I could not escape the impression that the percentage of unready smaller municipalities might be around 80% or 90%. At that time, I myself wrote about 30 municipalities. It was striking that even after I had written a second time, few reactions came. Apparently because the majority of those registered municipalities do not know what to do with their position. They are expected to implement a democratically adopted law, so how painful is it to publicly tell them that they are not really capable of doing so? The municipalities which did respond to my questions indicated that they were in agreement with the objectives, but their reactions in the majority were not very encouraging, pointing out the impact of this major legislative operation on these municipalities. Mr. Chairman. Allow me to quote a few quotes. I start with a quote from a small municipality in North Holland. "However, we are deeply concerned about the technical, legal and financial feasibility. The big problem is that we are expected to implement the biggest legislative change without additional resources. A new decentralisation, which requires high investment by the municipalities, while at the very least it is certain that this will lead to savings in the future." I say immediately to Mr Rietkerk: this municipality also uses the word 'decentralisation', because that is how it is felt. If you get a lot of tasks from above, it's called decentralisation. And if you already had tasks on your hands, I agree with Mr Rietkerk that the legal competence was already there, but the interpretation, as Mrs Kluit has also indicated, has become so much more extensive. I come to a quote from a small town in Friesland. It is a pity that Mr Gerbrandy is absent because of illness, because it was closed with a few Frisian words and I have to tell you quite frankly: I could not give the translation of that. But this reaction states the following, and I think it is also very important for the Labour Party to listen carefully to this. "For the residents of our municipality, this means a record-high increase in municipal burdens and substantial cuts in, for example, care, welfare, social services and civic participation by 2020. An extremely undesirable situation, which is caused by the decisions taken in The Hague, which we as a municipality have no or minimal control over." Finally, a small municipality in North Brabant. "As a small town, we never wanted this law. It costs a lot of energy and results relatively little. The main benefits, including shorter procedures, could also be achieved by adapting the current legislation. It is indeed a canal belt law, surrounded by a lot of propaganda. Take participation, for example. We've been doing that in a lot of ways for years. The Environment Act doesn't change that at all, even for cultural change you don't need that law, it certainly doesn't get any easier. The legal texts are very complicated and difficult to handle, and the legal profession gets a lot of work." Mr. Chairman. Groups that are committed to local democracy and local government must be behind the ears. A little money is not releasing these communities from the unbearable burden. In 9 years they will have to dispose of more than 400 dowry articles, from 1 January 2021 they will have to deal with applications for environmental permits, which are much larger than ever before, and put together environmental plans, which can only be formulated with the help of expensive agencies, and they will have to tell their city council members that they are out of their league and instruct officials at the counter to refer them to the county or ministry if the questions are too difficult for citizens to ask, because they are already completely lost. We here in The Hague are saddled with a huge job. Does the Minister actually have a proper idea of how these municipalities are involved, and I am thinking in particular of the smaller ones? What does it actually say when the VNG soothing claims that it will be okay? Does the VNG make this law? Shouldn't the Minister and the Chamber be convinced that the law is enforceable? Should we not first have sufficient insight into the impact of the law on municipal services, decision-making and its democratic functioning? We still have to give the green light later. For that, such information is indispensable. I would like to ask the Minister again whether the government is prepared to ask all the municipalities in writing in the short term whether they will be willing and able to achieve the major transition, in which they will be informed in detail in the letter about the tasks they are expected to carry out in this area in the coming years. I think that is an essential question. I do not think that we should let that depend on what a UNG reports on it. I can tell from all the groups how involved we are in what we are going to do to the municipalities. There may be a good reason for that, but we really need to get a good idea of what's going on. Mr Janssen said from his practical experience: well, such a note from the IPO, oh such a note from the VNG, we know it. I would like us, as a Chamber, to have a precise understanding of how municipalities are in it, whether they can handle it and what their concerns are. What's going on so they feel like we're shoving it down their throats? Mr. Chairman. I'd like that question answered. I have to tell you honestly that I already asked that question, but I was shocked by the answer I received. The answer was: however, the government considers that it is not appropriate at this stage to actively inform all municipalities in detail about what is expected of them after the entry into force of the Environmental Act and to ask them for progress in addition to the implementation monitor. Hello? This leads unnecessarily away from what municipalities still have to achieve in the year 2020 to ensure that the Environmental Act can enter into force. What kind of legislation is this, Mr. Chairman? That scares the shit out of me. I always have to use the right words from the CHU, so I'll leave it at that. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the law of the strongest. The National Ombudsman has already warned that this law allows for the participation elite and that ordinary citizens and those who are less able to come along are on the sidelines and are even more lagging behind. Several groups have also raised this issue. In fact, the Council of State's criticism of the loss of legal certainty and legal protection is also based on a warning that our rule of law is off balance. Laws normalize legal certainty. What is happening in this law, which has been established by the Council of State, and we all know that there is a great deal of free space for negotiation. In that respect, a field for cowboys has already been mentioned. If the balance of interests is in danger of going out of balance, and you can do so if you give free space, then the judge must be able to intervene. We're here as the FAA to judge this plane. We need to look at what instruments we can come up with at the moment or ask the Minister to reduce the loss of legal certainty, the loss of standards. We all feel uncomfortable about this, but sometimes it may be necessary. The issue of judicial review has been discussed. Mr Rietkerk has even made that very clear. You know that there is a provision on the principle of proportionality in the General Administrative Law, Article 3:4 second paragraph. This consolidated the proportionality of the balance of interests. The administrative judge himself has taken the view that, if there is freedom of policy, if there is freedom of assessment, he does not fully assess proportionality, although that is in the law. That wasn't supposed to happen. I remember that Hirsch Ballin, one of the creators, was in favour of direct proportionality testing. That has been a choice of the administrative judge to use a reluctant review. Mr. Chairman. If you look at the opinions of the Council of State, if you look at the opinion of the Council of Justice, if you look at the meeting of legal experts, they all say: if that is the starting point, then legal protection will water down. The initiator has nothing to do with the judge if his plan is rejected. A neighbor or a resident has nothing to do with the judge when a plan is approved. As soon as it comes to policy freedom, the judge will step down. He will say: I can only see if it is really incomprehensible to reasonable judgmental people what happened here and I leave the board alone. Mr. Chairman. On behalf of a lot of other groups, too, I have asked whether it is not wise for us as legislators to deal with this issue. If it is necessary to give that space, something must also be done on the other side in terms of legal certainty and the importance of our citizens. The judge must be given a better technique to provide protection. My question to the Minister is whether she would like to reconsider whether there should be a provision in this law for a comprehensive review of the proportionality laid down in Article 3:4 of the General Administrative Law Act. The government's answer is that the judge himself is man or woman enough to indicate how far he or she is restricted in the review. I think that's a weak answer, if I may put it that way from the CHR. I also think it is a weak answer that we are referring to a very important issue which concerns many groups, namely that the citizen will check with the DSO whether he is allowed to do something, then goes on to the answer he gets from it, but can still be dealt with legally later. I'm not going to discuss the principle of trust with you here. I'm not teaching. I don't think it's right what's in the government's response. The only thing that's true is that people say we have to wait and see. Here too, we say that we are the legislator. The primate is supposed to be here, right? If we want to protect citizens who have gone after it, it does not give us a pass to say that the judge will solve it. It also doesn't give a pass to say: let the judge show if he's got balls or if he's going to intervene. Then it'll be in the paper again that the minister has been whistled back by the judge. The judge's done politics again. No, let's not run away from our responsibility. Should we not just give the courts a stronger position in the law in relation to Article 3:4 and the proportionality test at all as legislators? Should we not, as legislators, regulate the principle of trust for the citizen who has relied on the DSO or on other information? Should we not find a solution ourselves? That's my question. It has to do with regaining legal certainty. There is another aspect relating to the recovery of legal certainty. If you open it all up, if you say that there are free powers, then there can be policy making, there can be considerations and the governing bodies themselves will develop criteria. The General Administrative Law does not contain an obligation to lay it down and publish it in a policy regime if you make policies. My question, on behalf of our group and perhaps also on behalf of others, is to the Minister: why is it not added in this law that the administrative body is obliged to lay it down and publish it in a policy regime when it develops policy criteria and lays down rules? Then we'll win back some of that legal uncertainty. Finally, Mr President, there is also the question of legal uncertainty. The Council of State has said that you will have major problems if you open the possibility that there are permit-free areas in terms of building. Take the example where someone wants to build something on his house and go to the mortgage bank to get a mortgage for that. The mortgage bank says, "Let's see the permit first." The mortgage applicant can't show such a permit if it's licensed. I have had a lot of discussion on this in detail in the round of questions. I'm not going to repeat that legal discussion here. If it's true, it's not true, or at least legally, it's questionable that there are possibilities to submit an application, even if you can't apply for a permit at all, and it can be done along that path... I note that the Council of State itself says: something is missing here; you have to deal with something, namely a declaration of conformity. A power to do so must be provided for in the law. This means that if you cannot apply for a permit, you can at least ask the municipality if you are in danger of acting in violation of the legal rules if you are going to perform something. Well, there's an answer to that. If that is settled in the law now it is not regulated in the law then that is a decision within the meaning of the general law of administrative law and on that basis one can at least go to court. That's what the Council of State asked. I think it is a little unusual for the government to state in its replies that the Council of State is wrong and does not see it properly because there is already a possibility to ask for a permit. The Council of State doesn't see it right? They're breaking up with me, I'd say, but okay. Mr. Chairman. A law which is not sufficiently thought out, which is too complicated even for specialists, which puts citizens who cannot come along even further behind, which undermines legal certainty and legal protection, which rewards technocrats and puts local democracy at risk. Whoever is going to vote next week, the citizens and the local authorities who are going to suffer from this, what lawyers have called, monstrum, that with the sticker "get started with the Environment Act!" Fired at us, looking straight into our eyes. Straight into the eyes, so with the nose up. That would have been better for the Boeing 737 MAX, the nose up... Let us hold our noses up for the citizens here in this House in a majority, because we want to be able to look them in the eye with a 'no'. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u87	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. Then I give the floor to Mr Verkerk for his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u88	Mr. Chairman. I was born in Nieuwer Ter Aa, a village in the polder between Amsterdam and Utrecht. My passport says I was born in Ruwiel. Here's the thing. Our village was six blocks away. Two streets belonged to the municipality of Loenen, two to the municipality of Loenersloot and two to the municipality of Ruwiel. You understand, that was before the municipal reclassifications of the sixties and seventies of the last century. My father was a carpenter. He went to primary school and then he went to night school. Later he started working as a structural supervisor in the famous King Willem III barracks in Nieuwersluis, a penal facility for military personnel. Around December 5th there was always a Sinterklaas party for the children. As a child, I was deeply impressed by all those soldiers in their beautiful uniforms. They were all bigger and wider than my father. My father was a member of the then ARP. My mom only went to elementary school. She was supposedly a wise woman. The Christian values of peace, justice and justice have been brought in with the dolphin. My parents showed me what these values meant in such a small village. The village and all the lands within a five kilometer radius were our playground. My environment consisted of meadows, bits of swamp, huts, locks and, when it froze, the ice on which we skated. Many farms were family property. They switched from father to son. In our village, the unwritten rule was that you dealt well with nature and animals. You understand, I have a lot with the Environment Act. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the Introduction Act of the Environment Act. Herman Tjeenk Willink gives in his booklet Greater thinking, smaller doing an interesting description of the changes in our society. He writes that in the time of the columning the connections were strong, within the columns and between the columns, between institutions and the government and between politics and government. These connections have been hard hit since the 1980s. He therefore raises the question of which links the society still holds together. The French philosopher Latour makes it much sharper. He says that in postmodern society people are no longer connected. He added that the elites went for their own interests and no longer felt responsibility for society as a whole. Mr. Chairman. I believe that these analyses, which are still necessary, show that the challenges we face under the Environmental Act are great. My main question is therefore: does this law contribute to maintaining and improving connections? The first is the links between citizens and the public authorities, the second is the links between citizens and the third is the links between civil servants and public authorities. In our group's view, good legal protection, strong democratic control, fruitful participation processes, a smoothly functioning DSO and an appropriate government culture are a must. I would therefore like to raise these five issues. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the new system. We go, as the minister put it in one of her speeches, from 26 laws to 1 law, from 60 general measures from government to 4, and from 75 ministerial regulations to 1 Environment regime. It's a giant operation. The Group of the Christian Union expressed its appreciation for the great efforts of the Minister, the Ministry and the other authorities in the handling of the Environment Act to achieve a clear, accessible and simpler system. A system in which confidence, space for initiative and protection of creation are fundamental principles. We would like to express this appreciation again, as well as the appreciation for all officials who have made a great effort to answer the many pages of our questions. That not everything went perfectly is all in the game, I think. Mr President, I come to the issue of legal protection. Legal protection is mainly concerned with the connection between the citizen and the government. The Remkes Committee argues in its report Low thresholds, high dikes for strengthening the rule of law. Among other things, she advocates a constitutional test of legislation ex post by the judge. The Committee writes on page 200/201: "Furthermore, constitutional review is a means of compensating for the decreasing focus on legislative quality in the legislative process. It is also a remedy against the changing nature of legislation (from the law as a guarantee and standard to the policy instrument and the backdrop of the legislator)." There is another note on this last sentence. I quote: 'As an example of this, the Environment Act can be mentioned, which is to a large extent going to take shape in the content of the related AMvBs'. This note refers to an article by Groothuijse and others, which bears the title; Constitutional landslides in environmental law? A salient detail is that Prof. Remco Nehmelman was one of the authors. The conclusion of this article is that "by not paying sufficient attention to the constitutional consequences of such developments, these important notions may, in the long term, be affected." The authors refer here to the legal notions of the separation of powers and the principle of democracy. Mr. Chairman. The above conclusion is from renowned scientists. A similar conclusion was reached by the Council of State. Now the Remkes Committee joins in this line. Therefore, it is important that there is an extremely good evaluation of the Environment Act to investigate whether that care is justified in practice. Can the Minister promise that I will also refer to Mr Rietkerk's contribution to an independent evaluation of the Environment Act? And that this evaluation should give explicit consideration to the possible deterioration of the above-mentioned state-law notions? Mr. Chairman. Democratic control is about the connection of power and counterpower. In the explanatory memorandum to the Environment Act, it is stated that the proposed system change has four improvements. The third and fourth are respectively increasing the administrative discretion and speeding up and improving decision-making. The Christian Union Group endorses the importance of these objectives. We also understand that more executive power is needed. The aforementioned article by Groothuijse and others states that the shift from democratically legitimized government to executive power calls for a "culture change in the general administration, more than before, in order to give a serious counterweight to executive power." Can the Minister reflect on this thesis? In what way does the Minister promote this cultural change? What programs are there to achieve "strong" councils and states in the new Environment Act? Does the Ministry invest in this, in terms of content and financial, also for the following periods of council and state? Mr. Chairman. Our concern is that the combination of more executive power from the various governments, the lack of the cultural change mentioned in the administration and the presence of powerful lobby networks, all the ingredients are present for the transfer of the balance from "protecting and exploiting" to "used." Our group stands for strong governance and wants to promote it in every way. The Christian Union Group welcomes the fact that participation in the Environment Act has an important role to play and that this is enshrined in a separate law. Participation leads to the laying and strengthening of connections. I'll be brief about this. I would also like to refer to the contribution of Mr Nooren of the PvdA. Our group would like to make a further link with the report of the Remkes Committee. In this report we read that social democracy is the broad basis of parliamentary democracy. Now: that social democracy takes concrete shape in the Environment Act. This also increases the importance of good practice of participation over and above the importance of the Environmental Act itself. The concern of the Christian Union lies in the vulnerability. We mention two points. First, involving all relevant citizens. It must be avoided that persistent differences in society are translated into persistent differences in participation. The second point is the quality of the participatory process. This is a process in which citizens can exercise real influence. Can the Minister promise me again to refer to the Norwegian contribution that until the law on participation is in place, in order to establish in the Implementing Decision the obligation of municipalities, provinces and water authorities to have a participation regulation? Mr. Chairman. There has been a lot of discussion about the DSO. The Christian Union Group has read all the progress reports and evaluations. We are convinced that the various governments are making great efforts and that this project is well managed. I have also lit my light in my own province and in my own congregation. We are also pleased with the progress made. At least two questions remain for our group at the moment. I also ask these questions on behalf of colleagues Dessing, Van Dijk, Klip, Kluit, Moonen, Baay, Rietkerk and Nooren. First up are the regional teams. In the note following the report, on page 64, the Minister states that special regional teams are being set up to assist the competent authority in the implementation. The Christian Union Group welcomes this decision. We ask the Minister when these regional teams will start, whether the capacity of these teams is sufficiently large, and above all how long they will continue to function. We also ask the Minister whether the reports of these regional teams, which will give a good insight into the quality of the implementation, can be shared with the Upper Chamber. Can the first report be sent before the debate on the royal decision to be put forward on the introduction? Can the Minister undertake to do so? I come to the point of supporting the citizens. On the website digitaleoverheid.nl we can read that there are 2.5 million citizens who have difficulty communicating digitally with the government and that there are 1.2 million Dutch people who have never used the internet. The General Court states that there are 2.5 million Dutch people who have difficulty with language and/or arithmetic. The Christian Union Group calls for attention to be paid to these citizens. The question is: How well will the government support these citizens in using the DSO? Can the citizen also simply come to a physical window of the municipality, the province or the water authority in order to put it this way? In the note following the report, the Minister writes: "Most governments already offer their citizens the opportunity to come to the window for assistance in making an application. In all municipalities it is possible to have personal contact with the municipality. The Environment Act is not expected to provide any reason to change this." Mr. Chairman. Words like "most governments" and "expected" offer too little certainty. Does the Minister share the belief that the government should be easily accessible to all citizens? Does the Minister think that where there is now talk of "most governments" this should actually be "all governments" and that "as expected" should actually be "sure"? What does the Minister do to promote this? Does the Minister intend to include this in the administrative agreement? Will the Minister promise that the presence and accessibility of a physical point of contact will be taken into account in the evaluation of the law? Our group is considering a motion on these points. Mr. Chairman. One of the key success factors of the implementation of the Environment Act is culture within the government. This concerns the links between civil servants and between the various authorities. In the reply of the Supplementary Act sound, the Minister describes the pillar "Other works." Our group stresses the importance of this pillar and asks the Minister to continue this programme with energy, and as long as it takes. The research "National Benchmark Verwachtschap 2018," which can be found at binnenbeheer.nl, shows that the government is also growing in change power, but also that the government is not yet the best scorer, and also that the top generally overestimates the change power of its own organisation. I understand that; I have often been a change manager myself, but the question of the Christian Union Group is: could the Minister reflect on this request in relation to the said pillar? Could it be that the minister and the various authorities overestimate the ability of the government to change? In other words, where is Morpheus from The Matrix to speak to the "splinter in your mind"? That undecided and gnawing feeling that keeps coming back, that maybe something isn't right yet. In any case, the "splinter in the mind" of the Christian Union has to do with this benchmark. Perhaps we should also be realistic and realise that cultural change is going to take much longer than we hope and think. The question of the group is therefore: how does the Minister keep his finger on the pulse of public culture? Mr. Chairman. The Group does not bring this point into line with objectives or to interfere with planning, at least not at the moment, but to emphasise the importance of the Minister following and facilitating cultural change. That is why the group agrees with Mr Klip van de VVD's contribution and what she said about implementing lessons learned and not shooting into the wrong reflex. Our group also supports the VVD's call for a national information campaign and for a communication toolkit for local authorities. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna lock up. I'll come back to my hometown one more time. Newer Ter Aa was a Christian village. One half was Dutch-reformed and the other half was a member of the reformed municipality. And some went to a Roman Catholic church or a reformed church. There was a deep religious realization that the environment in which they lived was given by the Creator of heaven and earth, and that they had to pass it on well to their children and grandchildren. where the meaning of the earth can no longer be found in the depths but on the surface. Mr. Chairman. The village of my youth no longer exists. The deep religious awareness of a Creator is no longer shared by the majority of our population. In the view of the Italian writer Alessandro Baricco I refer to his book The barbarians... there is a mutation: a transition from an old to a new culture. A transition where the meaning of the earth can no longer be found in depth but on the surface. In the political debate on the Environment Act, it is ultimately a question of whether, as a people, government and politics, we want to come to a common meaning, in conjunction with each other. Maybe I can put it this way: do we want to commit to the next generation? With this I come to a question of conscience to the Minister: does the new system of the Environment Act allow us to pass on a better environment to our children and grandchildren? I look forward to the Minister's answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u89	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. At the University of Utrecht you studied chemistry and theoretical physics. After graduation, you started working as a junior researcher at the Technical University of Twente, where you obtained your PhD in technical sciences in 1982. Then you became a senior researcher in the NatLab, or Physics Laboratory, of the Philips Glow lamps Factories in Eindhoven. From 1986 to 2002, you were Philip's factory manager in the Netherlands, Taiwan and Germany. In 2004 you obtained your doctorate a second time: this time in business administration at Maastricht University. Where you obtained your PhD in 1982 on an entirely beta subject in the field of conductive materials, in 2004 you chose a topic on trust, power and responsible behaviour in industrial organizations. Former Senator Egbert Schuurman, for many years group chairman of the Christian Union in this Chamber and professor of reformatorical philosophy, accompanied you in writing it. In the same year you became a professor of Christian philosophy at Eindhoven University of Technology and from 2008 you held the same chair at Maastricht University. Last October, in connection with your retirement, you said goodbye to both chairs. Your farewell speech, which you called a "pray for the saint," was about the climate crisis. You looked at this crisis from the point of view of religion, sustainability and inclusion. That "holy" is about connections with the fellow man and with nature, you argued. Just because you're retired doesn't mean you're sitting still. Since 2018 you have been active as an independent consultant in the field of innovation, sustainability and meaning. In your work, you combine your expertise in the fields of technology, philosophy and religion. For example, you wrote several articles in specialist journals on these topics. You were also in the Advisory Committee on Completed Life in 2015 and 2016. In an interview, you said about your work as a philosopher at a technical university, and I quote: "As a philosopher, I ask the question: which electricity systems are good and which are bad? "Good" could mean functional. But also: accessible to everyone, rich and poor." The same questions you continue to ask as a Member of Parliament, as you did today with this bill. We look forward to your further input. Once again, welcome. Mr. Verkerk, you're the one-after-last speaker this morning. I propose that after the last speaker we suspend for a moment of congratulations. I now give the floor to Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u90	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Verkerk on his maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has studied the proposed Environment Act in detail. The question kept coming back to us: what is the solution to this problem? With sounding slogans about simplification and efficiency, the Rutte cabinet gives Dutch citizens yet another bureaucratic ear with this proposed Environment Act. 26 existing laws are integrated into one environmental law, if it is up to the Rutte cabinet. Now in Dutch we have been debating the failing integration endlessly for decades. We will soon be able to add this Environment Act, if this First Chamber doesn't stop it now. Because everything points out that this integration project is also going to fail. We have already seen similar levels of efficiency and simplification from the Rutte cabinet, including youth services and the WMO, where the reality of the promised results often resulted in little and the effects in practice have often been dubious. I refer, among other things, to the problems of youth care. Mr. Chairman. I do not want to quote American sayings too often in this Chamber, but in the Anglo-Saxon world, people are often very good at formulating a particular situation. When you go into this proposed Environmental Law, I immediately involuntarily think of the saying "if it ain't broken, don't fix it." If there's nothing wrong with it, don't mess with it. I also agree with what Mr Nicolaï has said about this for me. Or to mention another important principle from the medical world............................................................................................................... Doctors even have to take an oath on this: I will not harm the patient. Isn't it time we took such an oath here in the First Chamber? "I will not accept or facilitate bad legislation." None of these principles seem to have been used in the design of the Environmental Act. A true administrative mirage has been rigged, a mirage of a legal oasis where it is good, by the water, in the shadow of waving palm trees. But in practice a mirage does not exist and the various government agencies become disoriented and lost in this administrative desert. Running and exhausted one crawls towards the mirage, which does not want to come any closer. Mr. Chairman. The Environment Act brings with it great risks and creates a system that makes it uncertain whether citizens, government and the courts are given sufficient guidance and whether legal protection will ultimately be equivalent to the current level. In addition, this Environmental Law does not provide sufficient clarity about everyone's role within the public administration. Where under current legislation, including for many years of case law, it is clear who should do what in the administrative Netherlands and what is everyone's role in administrative law, the responsibilities are now divided into several governments and levels of government in the Environment Act. The Accountability Accountability, with a Dutch word "D" disappears. No one will be responsible anymore and the citizen will be sent from the cabinet to the wall.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u91	A question to Mr Otten. The suggestion that the Environment Act ensures that there are several competent bodies in the spatial design, I would like to lay down next to the current practice. What is the current practice of Mr Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u92	It has, of course, been crystallised in years of case law who is competent for what. I refer to the example mentioned by Van der Grinten and Kortmann in the NJB, if I am not mistaken that article 5.12 of the Environment Act was. That is a very good, comprehensive example of how to look for which body is competent for a particular decision. So as a citizen, you've actually lost a lot of time trying to figure out which window you should report to at all. That is a lot clearer in the current setting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u93	This means that you agree with our group that the municipality, the province, the waterboard and the Empire are already competent for a number of matters, regardless of what Kortmann says in that article. Then the question to Mr Otten is the following. A number of entrepreneurs indicate that we must now apply for 16 different licences, which gives us no clarity, no clarity and no decisiveness. Can Mr Otten reflect on that statement, which has actually been mentioned over the last eight years in the mess of the complexity of the regulation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u94	Mr. Otten, I'd like a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u95	You keep talking about action, but well, jumping in the wrong direction on the ditch is also decisive, but that doesn't mean you're getting along with it. I'd like to reflect on that. Compare it to a hospital. There's a jaw surgeon, a heart surgeon, you name it, all kinds of specialties. I think that if you have a heart condition, you would like a sectoral approach and would like to be treated by the cardiologist and not by the jaw surgeon. At least that would be my preference. You can also say: we are going to do an integral approach and we are going to see a surgeon who is a man-of-all; one day he does heart surgery, the next day lungs and then a broken leg. Yeah, we'll be back from home, Mr. Rietkerk. That's not my ideal setting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u96	Mr Rietkerk, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u97	I had asked the question not about a hospital and the specialists, but about the entrepreneur that Mr Otten also often talks about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u98	No, you're talking about an integral approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u99	This entrepreneur wants clarity, visible in a factory building he wants to expand. Now it is true that he and the municipality are involved, as well as with a lot of sectoral rules. Such an entrepreneur, who says: I would like one permit, I want clarity and insight. It must be digitally well-founded. My question to Mr Otten is: what does he think of those entrepreneurs who say that and who also say 'go to work'?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u100	Brief answer, and then I suggest that we let Mr Otten finish his input, given the time, and save the interruptions until the end of Mr Otten's input, with your permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u101	I'll tell that entrepreneur that he knows where he is now and how to do it. You can also read all this in the piece by Van der Grinten and Kortmann, who also assist entrepreneurs daily. There you can also read that this entrepreneur will not even know if he needs a permit at all. He doesn't know what he's up to. Was I supposed to have a license? This leads to uncertainty, which makes this entrepreneur think: well, if I don't know where I am, then I'll let it go. So this doesn't help your entrepreneur. Read Van der Grinten's piece, which refers to this, as an advisor to such entrepreneurs. Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech. Soon no one will know what is going on in the administrative Netherlands and this Environment Act will lead to even more endless polder, as if we haven't had enough of that. Inter-administrative fictions, the Council of State calls this in its opinion, a euphemism for administrative chaos. Many municipalities, especially the smaller municipalities of the city of Toulouse, have also shown that the research carried out by Mr Nicolaï will face enormous implementation problems. Many smaller municipalities are not yet ready for this and a true advisory orgy has emerged. I was Google after the first term last night. Google on "Environmental Law Advice" for once. Then there will be hundreds of desks with courses and technical expertise and I know what. They all have flashy websites, it has become a true industry. Our prediction is therefore that, if this Environmental Law is introduced, there will be years of conflict of competence between each other and there will first have to be case law and case law, which should clarify this. Hours of work to reinvent the wheel. Mr. Chairman. Then we come to the ICT aspects of the Environment Act. The introduction law provides for the establishment of an electronic database, the DSO, the Digital System Environment Act, which has already been a major issue today and yesterday. Initially, the system catalogue of the DSO would contain no less than 80,000 concepts, but after the ICT Examination Bureau, the BIT, indicated that this was a bit too much of a good and over-ambitious and unfeasible, it was reduced to a more limited set. Nevertheless, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is deeply concerned about the feasibility of this far too ambitious ICT programme. The track record of the Dutch government with this kind of megalomaniac ICT projects also gives us every reason to be very concerned about this. Take, for example, the failed automation project in the judiciary, the KEI project, which stood for quality and innovation, a project that would cost 7 million, but eventually, after 220 million had been spent, was considered to have failed and stopped. At the Department of Defense, it is from the same sheet a suit with the GIT project, which has already cost a lot of money and still doesn't work. You can read it all in detail in the reports of the BIT. I can mention several other examples: the Dutch Food and Veterinary Authority, the GBA system et cetera, et cetera. Mr. Chairman. We regularly wonder in this Chamber how things like the crumbling PAS legislation on nitrogen could have been approved in this Chamber. For example, the total out of the claws supplement system passed through this Upper Chamber quietly. In November 2019, only two months ago, this Chamber willingly approved the licence for Wouter Bos to do whatever it feels like with Invest-NL's 1.7 billion euros of tax money. Last week, VVD and CDA started screaming that it is scandalous that Bos is not going to do anything for SMEs and that applications under EUR 5 million are not even going to be dealt with. It was a great shame, according to these parties. This is exactly what GO Prime Minister Rutte and Minister Wiebes warned on 12 November 2019 during the debate on Invest-NL. But again it was directed to deaf ears. Now many groups are running like headsless chickens behind the latest legislative monstrosity, asleep by the cabinet with nice stories about simplification and simplification. But it's not. Politics is apparently incapable of putting this kind of bad law into this Chamber. Stupidity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result, is the saying that applies to this. Mr. Chairman. When I ask the VVD Group to indicate in three sentences what problem this VVD legislative project is the solution, I do not get a clasp-and-ready answer. Apparently in Dutch politics and in the administrative system there is an inexhaustible urge for megalomaniac administrative projects that often contain all the ingredients for a future fiasco. The political mind goes on infinite and no one is able to stop this anymore. The Dutch citizen is the victim. For the responsible performers there is always a glass floor. No matter how furry you make it, you'll never fail. There is always another nice job available. We also saw it at the Supplements Service. Therefore, GO continues to raise these issues. The Dutch electorate really wants change and wants better governance, and is entitled to it. Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. Mr Dessing spoke yesterday about the Environment Act as a shaky jengators who could collapse at any moment. Nevertheless, the FvD Group, like the PVV, had itself wrapped up by the minister to help this law get a majority, but that aside. This Environment Act is not a jengator but a shaky tower of Babel that will lead to Babylonian bureaucratic activity therapy. The appeal of GO to the cabinet is therefore: stop this hopeless project now, while it is still possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u102	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I shall give the floor first to Mrs Klip, who had signed up first, to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u103	Without going into your powers and your knowledge, I would nevertheless like to respond to Mr Otten's metaphor of medical science. I think Mr Otten is very happy when the anesthesiologist and the pulmonary doctor are watching when his heart is crafted. This is good for an optimal result. That's how you should look at the Environment Act. If you choose such a metaphor, perhaps you should work it out a little better. My question is another one. I have heard you clearly say that in the end no one is responsible for this new Environment Act. That's why I was standing right here. I'd like you to explain that. In the one-two with Mr Rietkerk, you indicated that several parties were responsible. I can't rhyme with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u104	I refer you to the opinion of the Council of State. It makes this very clear. I have it on my table. I can show you later. It clearly states that a system of shared responsibility is being changed. Multiple organs must come to a decision together. That leads to all kinds of legal uncertainty. Soon you won't know if you need to be with the county or the county. Where do you have to be for your objection? That gives a very opaque situation that is not accountable. We are not in favour of that. We think you should invest the tasks. It must be clear who is responsible for what.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u105	Then can you explain what you derive from that is not clear which government you should be with. The essence of this law is precisely that governments work together and that it is very clear who is responsible for what. It is now and it still is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u106	I would like to refer Mrs Klip to Van der Grinten's piece, which I just mentioned to Mr Rietkerk. I'd read it to you, but it's very small print I can't read so quickly. This is Article 5.12 which contains a comprehensive description. It says that one has to go to this body first, but if that is not the right thing, one has to go to the other, unless Article 2 (3) (5) (6) applies, because then one has to go to the body that is thought to be the most applicable. Take a look at the piece by Van der Grinten. That's where it's perfectly explained. He says he can list dozens of other examples. I'd be happy to provide you with that. I can also give you the advice of the Council of State, because that is right there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u107	It sounds medical with all these organs. Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u108	The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, sees itself as the group for action, for entrepreneurship. Like all of us, you have received a very compelling almost moving call from VNO-NCW, SMEs-Netherlands: please do not delay but continue, this helps us. Such an appeal must also cast some doubt on Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u109	No, no, not at all. I agree with what Mr Nicolaï just said about the new Civil Code and the General Administrative Law Act. When I was in law school, I happened to experience myself that you still had to do BW and nBW for a while. I have had a lot of administrative law from Professor Michiel Scheltema of D66 who has worked on the General Administrative Law for twenty years. He has also been a State Secretary, a law lawyer and a professor. That law was introduced very carefully and phasedly, just as Nicolaï said before. This is an ill-thought monstrum of a law that's being rushed through for a while. We have a well-developed administrative system in the Netherlands with years of case law of the Council of State, you name it. It has also been discussed between the Supreme Court and the Council of State, both in terms of civil law and administrative law. We put a lot of things at risk to replace an existing system that works fine because we had to come up with something new. That's why I say if it ain't broke, don't fix it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u110	Clear. In conclusion, I note that Mr Otten is quite easily rejecting such an appeal from VNO-NCW, the SME Netherlands, which the SGP has a little more than confidence in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u111	They were for the abolition of the dividend tax, and I thought that was insanely bad advice. I am not blind to the view that everything that SME-Netherlands and VNO-NCW advise is good for the Dutch economy or our general interest. No, we form our own judgment, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u112	My question to Mr Otten is how he looks at the design of the Digital System Environment Act? As an applicant for a permit, you will be automatically redirected to the appropriate competent authority via the permit check. For example, if you want to cut a tree on a dike, you will automatically arrive at the competent water authority. If you want to cut down a tree in your own garden, you will automatically arrive at the competent municipal authority. Because the governments are working together, Mrs Klip said that also the citizen is automatically redirected to the appropriate competent authority. You have to sound like music to the ears, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u113	Undoubtedly, you were told the same stories about the KEI project in the judiciary that stopped after 220 million or the GrIT project that would organise all the logistics of Defence but still doesn't work. I can go on like this for a while. Of course, it needs to be implemented for a while and it needs to work. I was reading a piece in one of the previous speakers that says that government ICT projects that have been budgeted for 2.5 billion are already more than a billion over the budget, while they simply are not being delivered. It's all nice on paper, on the drawing board and in a powerpoint presentation where the citizen is somewhere in a booth, but in reality it has to be done. The government has a very bad track record on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u114	A brief reaction. The good news is we're on the buttons ourselves. We had a technical briefing in which we could see for ourselves how an application ended up with the appropriate competent authority. I'm hopeful about that. It may well be that an ICT project succeeds sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u115	Yeah, I could, but if we're gonna manage ICT projects here in the First Chamber, they're probably not gonna succeed. I don't think it's such a good idea to be on the buttons myself. But who knows, it could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u116	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-3.u117	Before suspending the sitting, I would ask Mr Verkerk to stand in for the rostrum so that all other colleagues can congratulate him. Mr. Verkerk, as chairman, I would like to congratulate you first. I'm suspending the meeting for lunch until 1:30 p.m.
