ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u1	As usual, we shall begin with oral Question Time. Today we begin with Mrs Ouwehand's question, on behalf of the Animal Party, to the Minister for the Environment and Living, whom I would also like to welcome, about the turn of the year. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Happy New Year, on the first day of the New Year, and welcome to the defining decade, because the next decade is the key. We've seen the Prime Minister give his first press conference. Also in his direction the very best wishes for the new year. That was good news and bad news. The bad news is that the cabinet is not yet very decisive, in this decade when it comes to deciding. But the good news is that the taboo is now quite finished, with the fireworks habit we know in the Netherlands, that citizens can buy their own ammunition and put it off with old and new. The cabinet has announced that it will look at a containment of fireworks and there is every reason to do so. 1,300 victims, half of them bystanders, people who were just going to wish their neighbors happy New Year and ended up in the emergency room. 55% of these victims came from decorative fireworks, 81% of the wounded fell from legal fireworks. So the question to the cabinet is: why so hesitant? What's waiting for? Where's the final blow to the flare? Ornamental fireworks are also dangerous. Emergency workers, police officers, firemen, mayors, ophthalmologists, hospitals, lung patients, they are begging the cabinet to make the choice now for a complete ban on consumer fireworks. What's the Cabinet waiting for?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me also begin by wishing you all a happy New Year. It is an honour to be here in your Chamber at the first oral question of a new decade. I hope it's all gonna be a great year for you. Mrs Ouwehand says: good that the taboo is off. We have also all noted that there is no downward trend, which we would have liked to see with each other, in the injury rates around old and new and in the incidents against aid workers. We find all this unacceptable and it is very good that we look together to see what else is needed. That has always been the line of the cabinet. It must be a safe and pleasant year-end for everyone and, if necessary, we will take more steps to do so. That's why we're going to look again now. Mrs Ouwehand mentions a number of figures. They also show that it is not very clear one kind of fireworks that causes the injury and the nuisance. It indicates that 81% is due to legal fireworks. This means that 20% is due to illegal fireworks, which is actually only a very small proportion of the total use of fireworks. Only 1% provides 20% of the injury. So that means we have to do some things. We need to strengthen enforcement, including on the illegal fireworks, because that still causes disproportionate damage. That's really dangerous, let me say that again. In addition, of course, we have to look very closely at what has to be done within that decorative fireworks, within that other fireworks. That's what we're gonna discuss as a cabinet. We're gonna get a letter soon. February has been mentioned for that. It must also be enforceable and enforceable. We want to discuss this with the police and with municipalities. The OVV is an important guide to this. So absolutely, you will also see the strength that Mrs Ouwehand is asking for between the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u5	Thank you to the Minister for her first answers to my questions. The call is not new, of course. I am glad that the cabinet finally recognises that the risk posed by aid workers on the New Year's Eve is irresponsible. Last year the police rang the bell and said: we can't actually handle all these enforcement tasks, including those of old and new. The cabinet said: yes, well, people are allowed to buy ammunition, but then they just shouldn't throw it at the police. But that's what's gonna happen. So protection of our aid workers should be one priority and there should also be more budget for the police to maintain. The concerns that live with the Party for Animals are about the fact that the Cabinet is looking very widely for all kinds of exceptions. I do not hear this Minister talking about the natural and environmental effects. I don't hear her talking about the lung patients. These are 600,000 people every New Year's Eve, unable to go out to wish their families or their neighbours a happy New Year, because of the large amounts of nitrogen that are the result of firing fireworks. That's not just fireworks or a flare. Why is the cabinet keeping it so limited at the moment? Is there a difference in the health and environmental impacts between blasting and decorative fireworks? If there is no such difference, why doesn't this minister say: we're going to look very strongly at that? Why doesn't she say: we're also talking to nature organisations, we're talking to eye doctors who rightly say: safe fireworks don't exist at all; we're talking to the Long Fund to see how we can protect these people, and we're talking to animal protectors and the Bird Protection, because animals are also suffering from that out of control habit of getting so much fireworks thrown off every year by civilians?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mrs Ouwehand rightly says: that call is not new. This cabinet has also taken steps in recent years to secure a safer and happy year for everyone, because that is what I do not hear contradicting Mrs Ouwehand either. It must be really safe for all those paramedics on New Year's Eve. She's right to ask for enforcement. Is that gonna get extra attention? Yeah, we really need to bet on that. That enforcement is incredibly important. We really need to strengthen that part. In addition, she asks: is there wide talk with all kinds of different parties about defining what should be the next step? We are talking to all kinds of parties, including the fireworks industry itself, by the way. All these conversations are going on, and that is why we are taking the time to finalize those talks until the crocus recess in February in order to arrive at a good definition. What we want to limit further must also be enforceable and enforceable. By the way, JenV's minister is working on a task force of violence against aid workers, because whether it's from fireworks or something else: violence against aid workers is simply unacceptable. In addition to fireworks, we need to look at that violence against aid workers in the broadest sense. Those people need to be able to do their jobs safely, what they're doing for all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u7	Sure, I agree very much, but of course it saves people from buying ammunition, because that's what fireworks are. The Minister says that there is broad talk with parties. But she does not explicitly say that the parties we have already heard from the Prime Minister about which we hear from her again today are being extended to include nature organisations, with the Long Fund, with the ophthalmologists, with hospitals, with firefighters, who all say: the very best idea is a total ban on consumer fireworks. That is actually already forbidden, only we make an exception three days a year. That would also be so easy for enforcement. So can the Minister promise that she will also have talks with these organisations on behalf of the cabinet? The Party for Animals will make a proposal, together with GroenLinks, to allow the Chamber to be properly informed through a hearing. As far as we are concerned, opt for clarity, clear enforcement, a ban on all consumer fireworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u8	I think it is very important that we consider all aspects well, so we will certainly have broad discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mrs Den Boer on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u10	The course of events at the turn of the year was, of course, unacceptable. D66 likes to join those words. There are parties here that want a total ban, such as GroenLinks and the Party for Animals, and there are also parties that do not want to move, such as the VVD. D66 is on the line: let us break the deadlock. That's important. The time has come for a majority of the House to endorse the recommendation on the ban on fireworks and flares from the Security Research Council. There is broad support for this in society. I'd say cabinet, what are you waiting for? I hereby call on you to simply arrange for the next new year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u11	I hear two aspects of this call. Take the advice of the OVV as a guide. I think the Prime Minister literally said that in his press conference. In addition, there is a call to see whether measures can be taken that will have an impact on the coming year. That is certainly the way in which the cabinet looks at this problem, on both points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u12	I hear the Minister saying that we are now looking at what steps are being taken. I think I can help her by pointing out to her that a motion by Bishop/Van der Staaij/Wassenberg was adopted for the ceremony to take steps to at least ban fireworks up to and including the category F2. This can help the Minister to make rapid progress. That is quite in line with what Mr Den Boer has just said about the advice of the security institution. Does the Minister agree with me that steps can be taken quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u13	I'm really looking at steps that can be taken quickly. We fully understand the wish that measures should be able to have effect by the end of next year. On one step, it's easier than on the other. That could be a factor in the demarcation. A motion by Mr Van Dam has also been adopted to look at the fireworks which, due to the gravity, cause additional injuries. Through all this, we must ensure that we make a package that is also enforceable and enforceable. In addition, we will, of course, include both motions adopted in the letter that comes to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u14	When I hear the Minister's reaction, it looks like we're dealing with some sort of drawing table reality. I went with the police this New Year's Eve. You'll see what aid workers are dealing with, the fireworks they're getting thrown at them. They can hardly do their job. Yet they continue to keep our society safe. Reference is made to an OVV report from 2017. It indicates how difficult it is. We've known for years what kind of misery happens to old and new. Can the cabinet here today promise that there will be a firework ban at the next turn of the year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u15	On the contrary, the OVV has looked very strongly at this problem, precisely because it has been going on for years and precisely because it has been unacceptable for years. An opinion has been drawn up on a number of recommendations, some of which have already been implemented by the cabinet. The cabinet is going to look seriously at the demand for a ban on fireworks and flares. We're really taking that O.V.V. report as a guideline. That call was heard very well, including the call from the police. We must ensure that it becomes a package that is also enforceable and enforceable for the police. I share the urgency outlined by Mr Klaver. I think a lot of people in the Netherlands have felt them. That is also why the cabinet has said that more is needed. That's what we're gonna look at. A letter has been promised for February. Mrs. Ouwehand asked if we're going to have a conversation with all these parties. That's why that doesn't happen today, but we'll come up with a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u16	I'd say skip the conversation. Go talk to the police. Go ask them what they need. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. We want to see force now. We need to take action now. Finally, one question for the Minister. I've spoken to the police, the people who are going to have to enforce. Does the Minister agree with me that the more exceptions we make to a ban on fireworks, the more difficult enforcement is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u17	Mr Klaver says on the one hand: skip the conversation. On the other hand, he says, "Get in touch with the police." That's a little hard to unite. I share with him the importance of the conversation with the police. They stand there in the line of fire at night. They must indicate what is enforceable for them. They have sent out clear signals. They are a real guideline for the cabinet on the measures to be taken. They are standing there, and they know what they are most helped with. That is why their advice is extremely important for the cabinet when making decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u18	The Christian Union is very pleased that after this year's event, in which there have been more incidents, the cabinet has said more violence against aid workers, in which workers have been crowned with fireworks and even people have died, that it is no longer possible to do so. We need to take further steps. Last year the government was not ready to take the recommendations of the OVV, but fortunately this seems to be happening this year. That's what the Christian Union loves to embrace. In the letter to the Chamber, the cabinet wrote that it wanted to consider how the fireworks tradition or year-change tradition can be preserved for the longer term, while remaining a festive event. I ask the Minister if she is prepared to take with the cabinet the suggestion of the Christian Union and think about including in that tradition of bonding, of connecting to one another in the neighborhood and the neighborhood, a total ban on fireworks for consumers, in which district associations and neighbourhood associations or fireworks clubs to be established...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u19	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u20	... could still set off fireworks to experience a festive year change with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u21	Mrs Van der Graaf: a new year, I thought perhaps a new way of interrupting, but that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u22	It must be a nice and safe party. That is the starting point. I hear Mrs Van der Graaf clearly say that security must be strengthened, and the cabinet also thinks so, and I would like to take the Christian Union's suggestion with me. That's what we'll come back to in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u23	I have not yet heard the Minister answer the question as to whether there would be any difference between blasting and decorative fireworks in terms of health and environmental impacts. Is it prepared to acknowledge that there is no such difference? The cabinet wants to focus on security. That's a legitimate reason. Is she therefore prepared to acknowledge that the whole F2 category, which includes both blast and decorative fireworks, exists because the safety risks of all those fireworks in that category are the same and you cannot therefore make any exceptions to them when it comes to safety?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u24	Safety is, of course, determined on the one hand by the intrinsic quality of fireworks, the amount of gunpowder contained in them, but on the other hand by how that fireworks is used or can be abused. These are all elements that ultimately determine safety; there are several aspects to safety. That you have to look closely at the injuries of the different species and that it is sometimes quite difficult to distinguish, Mrs Ouwehand is right. But safety for the aid workers in that night is also determined by the way that fireworks are used. That's what the police are sending out very clear signals about. In the end, we will all consider that in the packages.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u25	That's what the police are telling us, but it wasn't the first time, as long as you keep selling ammo to civilians. I would point out that the entire F2 category, which includes decorative fireworks, is also dangerous. If you send people with ammo in their pockets into New Year's Eve, you can wait for people to get kicked. So if the cabinet means it, and I sincerely hope that security is paramount, then I also hope that they are thinking about lung patients, and then I hope that for the coming New Year there will be a full ban on fireworks from this cabinet, and otherwise we will come up with our own bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u26	I'll take note of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u27	Agents, firefighters, paramedics: we ask these people to protect us, but then we also have to protect our aid workers. I think the time for talking is over, and there has to be a law. I think there is great agreement in this Chamber that dangerous fireworks should be banned. The investigators think that, the police think that, even the industry thinks that. What does the Minister care to come up with a law? Because there is often talk of fireworks after New Year's Eve, but I would like to see that settled now for the new New Year. So the minister says there's gonna be a letter. That's fine, but will there be a law and there will be a law in time, so that the Lower House and the Upper House can accept it and we can try to provide our New Year's aid workers with the safety they deserve?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u28	In my view, Mr Van Raak and I agree on what we need to do, namely to really improve safety. As aid workers, he is right to mention the fire department and the paramedics as well as the police. All these people are there for us, they are doing extremely important work and they must be able to do it safely. It is also up to us to ensure that we take another important step in this year. Is there going to be a law? There's already a law. The easiest and fastest thing is, of course, to make adjustments within the existing legal frameworks, because then you have the best chance of seeing the effect at the next year's turn of events. So if it is not necessary to make a separate law and we can arrange it within the legal frameworks that we already have, then it is preferable because of the speed. But legal security will, of course, be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u29	We discussed this extensively in the group this morning. We will look with interest at the proposals put forward by the cabinet. If these proposals mean that there will be a ban on fireworks and we will not oppose them. But we hope to find more than that in that letter, because if we only implement that ban, no blow will change at the turn of the year. Then we'll be back here next year. In the Netherlands, we must have a different way of celebrating in public space. It's just pure assholeness that's expressed here. The anarchy in that night and the apparent inhibition of a lot of people who think everything can do: that is the deeper problem. We expect the cabinet to deal with this problem in the proposals. And the second problem...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u30	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u31	Then I'll finish, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u32	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u33	The second problem is enforcement. That will also be the case in that letter, and we have concrete images which I shall be sharing at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u34	I would very much like to confirm to Mr Van Dam that these are extremely important elements. I was just trying to point that out to Mrs Ouwehand. Apart from the amount of gunpowder in a piece of fireworks, the real question is how it is handled. What is being done with it in practice? This ultimately determines how dangerous the fireworks are for the aid workers. Enforcement needs to be improved. Again, the Minister of JenV is also working on a task force on violence against aid workers. We will also be happy to return to the aspects raised by Mr Van Dam in the letter, because it will have to be a global approach with which we have people with each other there, of course, a very important role in making the change of the year safer for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u35	Mr Van Dam, a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u36	In my group's view, it is not so much about the arrows, it is much more about the pills and the alcohol and at all what people afford. This is not just the case with old and new. That is also the case with football and at other times with demonstrations. It happens that when people just demonstrate, all kinds of others join in. That's the deeper problem. That is what we need to do, and that is why we attach great importance to this understandable measure being taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u37	Yeah, it's got to be a broader package.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u38	In conclusion, I would like to ask a very specific question to make it very precise. The Minister admits that there will be a letter in February. It wants to change the law because a number of things really need to be banned, as the CDA now points out when it comes to fireworks and ornamental arrows. I would like to know how we are informed about what the various aid workers think of what is or is not enforceable, so that it is also transparent. In the end, I do not want a political judgment; I want a substantive judgment, because that is the only way we can actually make sure that old and new next year is a celebration for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u39	I very much agree with Mrs Kuik and I would also like to thank her for the way in which she has put this into practice. It is precisely the aiding agencies, those in the line of fire, that can very well tell us what they really need and where they experience the most risks. We will go into this in the letter, so that the Court is also transparent as to how these different opinions have been taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-2.u40	Thank you.
