ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u1	The issue now is the examination of the legislative proposal 35505, Amendment of the budget statement of the Ministry of Finance for 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. The Group of the Forum for Democracy is in favour of the granting of state aid to the KLM. This position is based not only on economic reasons, but also on emotion, because we are proud of the KLM. We are proud that the Netherlands has a national airline. But that emotion is involved in our decision-making does not mean that we believe that tax money should be transferred blindly. It's a big amount of money. Although it is less than the money the government wants to use to help companies in other European countries, something that we think is a bad plan and which we are going to talk about later today, the 3.4 billion that the KLM needs is, if I pass on 7 million tax-paying households in the Netherlands, almost €500 per household. Mr. Chairman. The Minister asks the average Dutch family to give the KLM a voucher of almost €500. He assures us that voucher will be refunded within six years. We agree with the first part of this proposition, but we are concerned about the second part. In order to survive, but also to repay aid, the KLM must win the competition in an undoubtedly much more difficult aviation market than before. That's gonna be a tough job. A company that faces such a difficult task should not impose any additional burdens. At the KLM, the Minister does. That's unwise. This is not only bad for the KLM, it is also bad for the taxpayer, for whom the minister is sitting here, because it runs an extra risk of his voucher becoming worthless. Three stones tie the KLM around the neck. First of all, money is lent to the KLM at a high interest rate. This must be done by Brussels, as we understood it, because that is what we think we are doing to prevent market distortions. That's weird thinking. After all, we want to disrupt the market. We want to help KLM survive. However, the government loves the European Union and is prepared to follow all the rules imposed from Brussels, including the dumb one. So be it. What we cannot understand is that, on top of the additional burdens imposed by the governors in Brussels, the Minister wants to impose additional conditions on the KLM himself. The proposal is that the government should use taxpayers' money to help a company that makes Brussels extra expensive and that the minister would then impose extra high costs on a company that is in a tight spot. The task of this Chamber is to assess the quality of legislative proposals. This approach is not right. The Group of the Forum for Democracy believes that two conditions in particular in the support package are working in the wrong direction. Everyone wants less noise and less air pollution, but this is not the time to force the KLM to make an extra effort. The point now is that the KLM survives. What are we doing? We're throwing the drone a lifeboat. There shouldn't be any weights attached to that. An airport and an airline cannot work within office hours, even within 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m. which are defined as a day at Schiphol Airport. The State states as a condition that the KLM cooperates in reducing the number of night flights, first from 32,000 to 29,000 per year and then further to 25,000. In our view, the second, extra twist on the screw is not justified. This will result in the hub and ghost function of Schiphol being affected, as the KLM will then be able to land fewer flights from the US in the early morning, thus reducing the number of passengers from the US by the KLM, thus reducing the competitiveness of the KLM. That condition is therefore contrary to the objective of the aid. Also, if there are fewer night flights, daughter Transavia will not be able to fly back and forth to the sun and beach destinations three times a day but at most twice a day. That is a serious attack on Transavia's earning model and it is not wise to impose such a heavy burden on a company in distress. Mr. Chairman. The third burden imposed on KLM is CO emissions. Planes consume fuel. Even before the corona virus broke loose, KLM made agreements on sustainability. KLM already participates in a biofuel plant and has a purchase obligation for the biokerosin that will be made there from 2022 onwards. That plant does not supply enough; KLM also has to buy elsewhere, and that biofuel is expensive. We estimate that biokerosin is three times more expensive than regular kerosene. Fuel amounts to about one third of KLM's cost. Mixing biofuels means that the total cost will increase more by one percent or ten, while mixing it does not make a noticeable contribution to countering global warming. As the Minister increases costs, he also asks the KLM to draw up a plan to reduce costs by 15%. That's not right. Biokerosin requirements are symbolic politics. I believe that all political parties are now convinced that biofuel for power plants was an expensive mistake, more expensive than any form of support for KLM. That was a waste of money. Then now, from a company that fights to survive, we should not demand that it incurs additional costs to use biofuel. That is irresponsible; that is bad legislation. That's the kind of law this Chamber shouldn't let pass. At the same time, we must hurry. The KLM needs money to survive. I would therefore like to ask the Minister the following two questions. Does the Minister agree with us that it is unwise, economically, to impose additional burdens on KLM at the most difficult moment in the company's rich history? On my second question, I believe that the Minister has already made a commitment to the House of Representatives: can the Minister indicate how much additional costs the conditions for the KLM are going to be? We would prefer to see this broken down into the additional costs imposed by Brussels, the costs due to sustainability requirements and the costs lost by night flight requirements. I also have a solution to the problem outlined, and two more questions. Mr. Chairman. Last year, the Minister spent more than 700 million taxpayers' money just to gain control of Air France-KLM. Those millions did not go to the KLM, but to the shareholders who sold their pieces to the State of the Netherlands in time and who will now rub their hands in the hands. This has proved to be a waste of money, because the Netherlands has not been given any additional control in the holding company. Only the French state will decide what happens there. But now the minister has agreed that a government state agent will be appointed to KLM. That's a bit of a strange English name, a government agent. Can't we come up with a Dutch word for that, maybe "state superintendent"? Anyway, that state agent has to make sure KLM complies with the terms. I think that we can find a solution to this, because according to the Forum for Democracy, we must think the opposite. It is not a question of whether the KLM complies with the conditions. It is much more important for the government to monitor whether the conditions set by KLM are not reversed. That is in the interests of the company and that is in the interests of the Dutch taxpayer. Over the next six years, the interests of the national airline and of the Dutch citizen will be parallel. The government state agent is here for us and for the KLM. That is why the following question to the Minister, assuming that he is not prepared to abolish the disputed conditions in the granting of aid at this stage. Would the Minister promise us that the tasks of the government state agent will be extended in the sense that he will also monitor whether the conditions do not harm the competitive position of the KLM? And then there's a second and last question. If we think that this will happen, if the conditions are intolerable to the KLM, is the Minister still prepared to reduce the conditions relating to biofuel and night flights to an acceptable level for the company? Mr. Chairman. We at the Forum for Democracy believe that at this crucial moment KLM's survival should be a priority over sustainability concerns. Those wishes will not be addressed again until the KLM has been saved and after the aid has been repaid. That seems to us to be a sensible policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Frentrop. I call Mr Crone of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have my phone in flight mode now, because yesterday I was called twice during the debate with Mr Wiebes and the President was not allowed to do so. So I don't have it in flight mode because of KLM, because we keep it in the air. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for their intensive work, thorough work. Much has been done and hard work has been done, also by the official bars....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is, of course, also special what must have happened to workers and many other stakeholders in the sector in terms of uncertainty from one day to the next. I happen to know something about it, because I once negotiated the collective agreements when I was still working at the Transport Association FNV. That is so long ago that it will no longer be valid, but I know what kind of sector it is, what kind of Stuyvesant feeling there used to be and still is, and so on. There are also major public interests at stake. I am therefore pleased with the extended guarantee, that the notice period of any functions and such is longer. However, we still see very serious imbalances in the package, so we are not simply convinced that we can support the package as it stands. I will go along a number of points. That is first of all what Mr Frentrop said: the company is already overflowing with debts. Then why do we need more debts? I have already referred to this yesterday, and I would now like to refer to the new 16 advisory points of the General Court in support of large companies. He warns about all these kinds of points. These are points that I raised in the written procedure last month, in various documents, but I am not satisfied with the answers given by the cabinet. 'Cause what's the main line? Any more debts? While you should say, as the Court of Auditors does, that shareholders need to come to terms, because they have the greatest interest in continuity. My second main point is that no realistic scenarios have been made for the future. Both ministers are not too optimistic. Didn't they paint themselves right in the corner by shouting straight away: whatever it takes? Is this KLM's Draghi? How harsh are the conditions that are imposed? My first point is, therefore, Mr Frentrop said it also: why do we need more debts? Why a subordinated loan and not a preferential loan or capitalisation of shares? Because just now that the company is in debt, 3.5 billion is added with state guarantee and subordinated. The solvency therefore deteriorates further and KLM has been overcrediting for years. So even more debt and as an extra candy of the week is also disadvantaged. But there is no relapse option either, because what happens if this is not enough? There's no plan B. The Court of Auditors also put that forward last week: always make a plan B. In these circumstances, therefore, the Minister can do almost nothing more than draw the company more towards him, with guarantees or own funds, and then let the company fly out again when it's back on its own feet. Of course, shares don't have to be in our hands forever, as was shown by KLM's original sale to Air France. That cost about 700 million for the whole company. And now a year ago, we bought back $700 million of 14%. It goes up and down, but at this stage this seems almost inevitable to us. Mr. Chairman. A bail-in. This is, of course, also an important opinion and this has also been discussed in detail in the House of Representatives. The Minister of Finance said very quickly: whatever it takes, and immediately mentioned large amounts of public money. Yeah, well, of course the others will sit back. The Court of Auditors also warns against this. So now the Minister has organized the ride down. For a debt, even if it is subordinated, is of course as uncertain in an overcredited company as shares or whatever. So why didn't the minister choose a preferred share here? I get that he's saying, "I don't want to get in full." But the alternative is that he's now on the back mem, because he's the last one to claim debts. Now the chance of a bail-in is over, so I ask. 'Cause it's obvious that the others do think that's the way it is, isn't it? I have asked for this on several occasions, and in the written reply the Minister simply admits it. He says: it is clear that the other parties, such as leasing companies and fuel suppliers, have so far made no contribution, but they are going to pay for new contracts, because there will soon be a lower operation, less fuel, and fewer aircraft. Yeah, you'll get the cuckoo! Do we have to pay them when there is no growth or no continuity in growth? The Minister thus confirms that they have not paid anything to the support package so far or to get KLM back on its feet. That's crazy, isn't it? Why hasn't a haircut been considered? Why hasn't it been said: the government sits on preferential shares or buys shares, but we don't do that until everyone turns in 15%, for example? That's similar to the discount the government has to make. But now the negotiating position of the Minister is no longer strong, because the package is already there, including its disadvantaged character. However, the factor of labour had to be turned in immediately. They either got paid by the government, or they got fired, or... contracts have not been renewed. The company is of course one of the first to be granted an exception to the rule of dismissal. And of course the flex workers have had little say in staying. So I will come back to that phrase 'whatever it takes'. I would like to know: wouldn't it have been smarter to pick a harder line, so that the opponents, if necessary with the fear of suspension, would think: we should move now and we should also pay for it? That's what happened at the HEMA. That is where it worked, because at the end of the day we are not needed there. That was Mr Wiebes' argument yesterday. He said: good thing I didn't move too fast and I didn't get on the sidewalk at HEMA right away, because now the parties have solved it themselves and they're in line to solve it together. I do not want to say that it is comparable, but I would like to ask the Minister: why was it possible there, and why did the government become the asking party here, and not the mediator, the helper or last resort? The Court also stressed that this would be a good strategy. But does the Minister still have a leverage? For example, before the second instalment is paid out, can he make it conditional that... (NL) Mr President, I am, of course, perfectly happy that the Minister is constantly watching his phone, but I get the feeling that he is tapping in everything I am asking, or...? Anyway... I shouldn't have said it, because I see now that he has heard this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u6	Oh, yeah. I can almost reproduce it word for word. Mr Wiebes also enjoyed the debate yesterday, I understand. The HEMA case and the KLM case are quite different, but I will deal with this in my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u7	Yeah, yeah, totally good. I shouldn't have said this, Mr. Chairman. But perhaps something else can happen on parole before the second instalment is paid out, and there are other sticks behind the door. I do not read anything about this in the papers, but I want to hear this convincingly. I am glad that the Minister has embraced the Nijboer motion in the House of Representatives, because he also sees that extra pressure needs to be put on a bail-in. The Minister has already embraced this, but I'm curious how he's going to fill it out. Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that the cabinet has indeed given the trade unions and the employer a perspective on how it intends to complete the claim of 15% reduction in costs. I understand that you have given an indication: the strongest shoulders carry the heaviest loads. I sat at the table myself once, and I know there are eight unions. For example, I know how strong the position of the categoryal unions is. They can gag the rest. That is why I think it is right that you should balance that, so that not the strongest unions, and that is usually the pilots, take good care of themselves again and the others do not. I read somewhere that this is the private company with relatively most people above the Balkenende norm, so I wholeheartedly support that social approach of the cabinet. But I am also pleased that you have said: of course there is also freedom of negotiation in this case. So it is not a dictation, but I think it is right from the taxpayer's point of view that the strongest shoulders should bear the heavy burden. So I'm not gonna interfere with the details, because then I'm gonna interfere with the freedom of negotiation. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the burden-sharing on the future. It's a bridge credit, no matter how we fill it out. But if you have a bridge credit, of course, you have to know what it looks like on the other side of the bridge. The cabinet here is extremely optimistic by saying that 2023 will again show full recovery to the level of 2019. Aren't you the only one in the entire aviation sector who thinks so? Because we all know that there are two strong influences on the growth of the aviation sector. First of all, of course, this is the economic contraction, combined with the fact that people will meet more at home and not so much more purely for economic reasons. And there is also the climate problem. We all know that aviation targets are very low compared to other sectors. Like all other financial institutions, such as insurers, currently book climate risks, it is highly conceivable that action will be taken here too, it is not for 2023, then certainly soon afterwards, that the sector should reduce its emissions more quickly. I am therefore asking for a plan B in this respect. Because if there is structuralally less growth, both economically driven and climate driven, these two can be combined, the question is not only whether you will achieve this growth path by 2023, but also afterwards. Those risks should at least be priced in other scenarios. I asked in the written round whether fair pricing scenarios could be explored: excise duty would be normal, the CO tax would be normal, and so would other environmental objectives. I thank you for the answer, but you say that you do not have to make those scenarios, because we already know that the sector is currently making up for only 20% to 50% of its social costs. So you know that costs will have to rise from an environmental point of view. So there's pressure on it after all? Then we are going to invest in the dirty direction first, with tax money, and then if the environmental objective is to be met, are we going to write it off and then back to supporting the company's green investments with subsidies? Yesterday we had a debate on this with Mr Wiebes, who promised that we would not do that: not for Schiphol, but in general we will not, as state aid, facilitate dirty investments first and then the green ones again. So I hope that doesn't happen in the KLM case either, but it actually looks like it is. Mr. Chairman. Of course, this environmental approach must take place internationally. Has the Minister taken steps that, together with the surrounding countries and the European Commission, excise duties on kerosene, the CO levy and so on will quickly reach the same level so that we can have a level playing field? A lower growth path of course has a huge impact on the hub function of course, Mr Frentrop also talked about this and the main carrier KLM. Because we certainly think it is a public interest that the network hub function should be maintained. I just praised you for doing that. But there are still many options in there. We welcome this extended guarantee, but the relative position of Schiphol in recent years has been seriously weakening compared to London, Frankfurt and Paris, but also vis-à-vis Istanbul and Dubai. That makes sense: we were forerunners, but at some point the others catch up. What will happen in your vision with this hub function? Because corona will result in a restructuring of all European positions. Are we not going to be in the phase, I dare say, of a European industrial policy in which we do not have to look nostalgic at the past, of 'we remain the most beautiful and largest airport in North-West Europe', but in which we gain a better place, but just below the very large, but still with all the necessary connections? The question then is whether a sensible restriction at Schiphol Airport will not be the result of a high-quality network, with less cheap holiday traffic, and that may also make Lelystad's need unnecessary. I would nevertheless like to hear your views, precisely on this hub function and the structural developments. Because many studies have been carried out that say that 20% of flights can have the same high-quality connection with all our core economic sectors, from New York to anywhere else, and that will be at the expense of this, but that is an automatism of more expensive holiday flights and other unnecessary flights. So why not choose that scenario, giving you a completely different investment and restructuring path than the cabinet chooses now? It looks like business as usual. Mr. Chairman. To sum up, why not make a preferential loan or add up to shares, but a subordinated loan so we're on the last mem? That also weakened our position in the bail-in vis-à-vis the other lenders. Why not show more realistic scenarios, both from economic shrinkage and from environmental considerations? You're far too optimistic that we're back in the old track by 2023. Did you not paint yourself too much in the corner by shouting too quickly "whatever it takes" and also calling very large amounts? Let us hope that you have something in your back pocket and that you can convince us that these bail-in and the economic scenarios are better than we have understood so far from answering the written questions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr Crone. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. "Do whatever it takes." Under that motto, the government has been and ever since the outbreak of the corona crisis supported its unprecedentedly extensive and totally unorthodox measures to protect the economy from collapse. The coalition agreement of right-wing parties was firmly put aside in favour of far-reaching measures that could count on almost Chamberwide support in the Lower House and also here. Companies facing an unprecedented decline in turnover have been maintained with billions of public support since the corona crisis outbreak. This will enable these companies to pay staff instead of paying them off as they did in the previous crisis, to damage and shame of everything and everyone. Instead of more market and less government, the government is now openly heading for more government in collapse markets. And that's good. In both chambers, the SP supported that change of government stance and thus also supported the various emergency packages and the associated generic measures, because what was needed was done. But then it is also the question of exactly what choices you make within these general objectives, who helps you generically and under what conditions and what specific measures you take in addition to generic policy. And here the shoe is starting to wring for my group. Increasingly, the government seems to make choices that give priority to the private sector over the public sector and above the wallet of ordinary people affected by this crisis. We have seen earlier that this government ignores the will of this Chamber three times and refuses to introduce the generic rental stop in any form and so on people who are already not easy to accommodate in these difficult times. We have also seen that the men and women in the front line of the fight against the coronavirus, the workers in the care sector, in terms of the government coalition, despite all the appreciation for their crucial work, are not getting anything out of it, 'because it must be dealt with in a subsequent collective agreement'. Mr. Chairman. While tenants are not allowed to face a rent freeze and care workers' salary increase, the cabinet does reserve billions of taxpayers' money for the rescue of private companies: for shipbuilder IHC, which we discussed yesterday, a support package of more than the total amount of 300 million going to the rescue of the cultural sector, and now 3.4 billion for KLM. The SP Group believes that saving a private company with public money is only justified when it comes to large public interests, but then you really need to safeguard those public interests by saving that company. Moreover, we also believe that what, apparently, should not go bankrupt because of large public interests, ultimately does not belong in the free market. Nationalisation of the KLM would therefore, in the long term, be the most logical way forward. Mr. Chairman. My group shares with the government that KLM is an important company and that the survival of KLM involves a great deal of employment, both directly and indirectly. Saving KLM can therefore be justified, but only if you really guarantee public interests. This public interest is primarily the preservation of employment for the SP Group; the preservation of the jobs of women and men who make KLM what it is. It is not the shareholders who create the value of the company, but the people who often keep the company running every day for very modest salaries in baggage handling, maintenance, or as steward or stewardess. It has to be them. The safeguarding of public interests in saving a private company also means control for us. You cannot place all the risks unilaterally with the taxpayer and then get no control or participation in a hopeful future increase in value or profit for it. In addition to public economic interests and the importance of employment, the public authorities must take other interests into account. The climate crisis and the necessary transition to a sustainable economy is perhaps the greatest challenge of our time. If the aviation sector is not one thing, it is sustainable. So there is still a great deal of work to be done here. Mr. Chairman. We can support the goal of saving KLM, but on the basis of these principles: 1. maintaining employment and putting the interests of ordinary workers at the centre, 2. control, and 3. sustainability. It is, therefore, from these points of view that we have asked the government a number of critical questions. We weren't the only ones either. But if I look at this package from that perspective and put it along that measuring bar, then I can only be very disappointed. I would like to go through these three main points now. At every point, I have a few more questions. Firstly, it is incomprehensible to my group that the trade unions are not involved in this plan. How can you want to save a company and the jobs associated with it without talking to the employees and their representatives? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Why is the maintenance of employment not enforced in the conditions? It is true that nothing has been agreed on this and that redundancies at the cost reduction requested by the KLM are not excluded, I ask the Minister. This is unacceptable to the SP Group. Can the Minister promise that there will be no redundancies during the period of the aid package? Then there's the wage offerings you're asking for. The SP Group considers it logical that the KLM summit should be asked to turn in. As far as we are concerned, that could have been even more. In fact, as far as we are concerned, Mr Elbers is simply going to be covered by the Top Income Standards Act. That large-scale and often tax-deviating pilots have to surrender at least 20% of their working conditions is certainly justified and self-evident to my group, but the wage sacrifices requested also apply to people from a mode of income. What exactly do these appointments look like? As far as the SP Group is concerned, we are asking for even more at the top and we are not making wage sacrifices for employees who are on a roll. Once again, how is it that there has been no consultation with the unions or with employees' representatives in any other way? Can the Minister explain how this relates to the various conventions of the International Labour Organization and the freedom of unions to negotiate, and thus to international law? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of control, which has already been discussed by other speakers. The government chooses to provide liquidity only through guarantees and loans. For billions, I'll say it again. This is one-sidedly placing large risks on the taxpayer. The question is whether the money will all come back in the end. So, apart from some interest, the taxpayer gets nothing in return for this. We think this is a bad deal for taxpayers. Why was it chosen for loans and not for increasing our ownership, and thus for controlling KLM? Why has no choice been made for a bail-in, which requires a sacrifice from the other shareholders and creditors? Mr Crone has already spoken about this. I would also like to point out here that one of the lessons learned recently by the General Court from previous government rescues has apparently not yet been learned. I would also like to strongly recommend to the Minister that all 16 lessons of the General Court be reviewed and that the support package be passed along this measuring bar. With the new loans KLM gets more liquidity, but you also charge the company with even more debts, so the solvency deteriorates. The Minister simply admits that in his reply. Of course, that makes sense. The question is: is that really wise? Is that really the best solution according to the Minister? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Thirdly, the conditions relating to sustainability, but also the reduction of nuisance for residents of Schiphol. Here the Minister of Conditions speaks, but I would say that if only there were, at least, more than recycled conditions or conditional conditions. It turns out that there are no new conditions for sustainability at all. It is merely a re-affirmation of existing agreements under the Sustainable Aviation Agreement. Or does the Minister see this differently? At least I can't find those new terms. So, as a society, we are going to set aside almost EUR 3.5 billion to save a company from one of the most polluting sectors, and we are not taking the opportunity to at least make the Dutch airline a lot cleaner to fly. In any case, KLM is not future-proof, I ask the Minister. Of course, aviation still has a future. We're not gonna cancel the flight for a while. My group is not in favour of that either. But it has to be much more sustainable and then we will all have to fly a lot less. But for a real vision of this, you don't have to be with this government. That is why it is also weak in this area when it comes to the rescue of KLM. While residents were hoping for a total ban on night flights, the number of night flights, as part of the package, is only reduced by a small percentage. This is also largely dependent on the opening of Lelystad Airport. So it's a condition for a condition. When I read that, my clog actually broke a little bit. The government can't be serious, can it? What are the chances that Lelystad Airport will open this cabinet period? And if that does not happen, and this could happen, is this condition immediately off the table? All the way to the end, Mr. Chairman. My group has great difficulty with the fact that, while the cabinet is paying billions of dollars, we in Parliament have to do our budget law with a letter from a few sides. What exactly was agreed with KLM? We're not gonna hear that. Nor do we find out on the basis of which information and figures this decision, the rescue of KLM, in this form, i.e. with liquidity support, has been taken. We assume that all this is well written, but these documents are not shared with us. Secret! How, then, can we make a proper and careful assessment? I would also like to refer here to the Court of Auditors' 12 lessons: inform Parliament in good time and in full and do not skip the First Chamber either. I would like to receive a response from both ministers who, I hope, are also familiar with Article 68 of the Constitution. Mr. Chairman. We are now all the more looking forward to the response from both ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I call Mr Otten. He will speak on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u11	Mr. Chairman. Today we welcome Minister Hoekstra of Finance to our Chamber. He has come to explain the rescue package for KLM. Over the last few months, our group has called for an invigorating process such as the acquisition of the 14% share package in the holding company Air France-KLM in February 2019 for EUR 744 million by Minister Hoekstra. The General Court examined that transaction last year and ruled in its report of 20 May last: "Don't inform the First Chamber by Minister Hoekstra makes this Air France-KLM transaction unlawful. The law leaves no room in this respect." An ear for Minister Hoekstra referred to NRC Handelsblad as this report of the Court of Auditors. In recent months, our group has strongly insisted in the Finance Committee on the need for the First Chamber to make full use of its budget right in this new rescue package for KLM and not to face up to facts, as was the case in 2019 with Air France-KLM's acquisition of shares. Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis leads to an unprecedented, unparalleled slaughter in the global aviation industry resulting in a completely new playing field and a more drastic smaller market due to massive demand outage. The major unknown factor in this situation is: how long does it take for the traffic volume and capacity utilisation of the aircraft to return to the level of 2019? Is that ever gonna happen again? In the Minister's letter we saw that he takes two scenarios into account for KLM. Scenario one: slow recovery. Scenario two: prolonged impact. Those are intriguing names for scenarios, but our question to the Minister is whether these are all scenarios. It seems rather brief to us. What are the assumptions about the volume underlying these two scenarios or the multiple scenarios? More specifically, in what year does the Minister expect a return to a situation similar to the corona crisis? Mr. Chairman. If we look at the deal that has now been made by the Minister, where it looks very much like he is always clinging to the facts and behind the French and made the initiative especially with his French counterpart Bruno Le Maire, then we see in general the next transaction. Air France borrows 4 billion from nine banks, 90% of which are guaranteed by the French State, and Air France receives a subordinated loan of 3 billion from the French State with a maturity of at least four years and up to six years; therefore, a total of EUR 7 billion. KLM in turn borrows 2.4 billion from a syndicate of eleven domestic banks, through a revolving credit facility, 90% of which is guaranteed by the Dutch State, and receives, like Air France, a subordinated loan from the Dutch State of 1 billion, with a maturity of up to 2026; i.e. a total of 3.4 billion in loans for KLM. The Air France-KLM group was already heavily financed before the corona crisis, which has already been recalled by other speakers with low solvency. And now there's another 7 billion additional debt for Air France, and another 3.4 billion debt for KLM in the current package. We have serious doubts about the sustainability of this rescue package, to use just one word that we hear a lot in this Chamber. Especially in the case of a slow recovery of the aviation industry or the aviation industry, and we hope, of course, that this will not happen again, a second corona wave, this rescue package does not seem sufficient and the company will get in the way quite quickly with interest payments. That is why, according to our group, it was more likely to look at equity as well, to consider an equity injection at KLM, as happened for example with Lufthansa, where the German State added a total of 9 billion, for which it acquired a 20% stake in Lufthansa's share capital, as well as two Commissioners. Has the Minister considered such scenarios, as is our question? If so, how? And if not, why not? Has the Minister considered the possibility of issuing shares in KLM in order to provide KLM with more equity and thus buffers, whether or not combined with a greater interest of the Netherlands in the holding company Air France-KLM, in order to maintain the initiative vis-à-vis the French? For example, has a convertible loan been envisaged for KLM, so that there is also an upside to any future improvement? What we lack in the current deal is an upside for the Dutch taxpayer; the burden, but not the lust. And we lack control of the Dutch State, which accounts for 90% of the 2.4 billion, therefore 2.2 billion, guaranteeing one loan, and of course runs the full risk of the subordinated loan of 1 billion, i.e. a total risk of 3.2 billion euro. By comparison, Air France-KLM's stock market value is around 1.7 billion per day, so you can buy the entire company for that. The relationship between foreign and equity is thus becoming increasingly unbalanced and the question is whether this is sustainable in the long term, especially in the current market. Mr. Chairman. We read in the Minister's letter that he wants KLM to come out of the crisis competitively. We wonder how the Minister intends to achieve this with the current measures. KLM's rescue process has been going on for a very long time, especially compared to competitors, who have already taken the necessary measures. I dare say it may take too long. This is partly due to Dutch dismissal law, with all kinds of reflection schemes, which, even now, make the best people redundant, while foreign competitors and companies are firing people with training issues, bad assessments, pilots who do not pass the simulator test and so on. But in the Netherlands that is not possible, so it becomes a mix of all kinds of people. That is a disadvantage of our system in this case, especially if you compete globally like KLM. So by reorganising not on performance but on reflection, KLM becomes in fact less competitive due to this crisis. How does the Minister intend to solve this? Mr. Chairman. Then we come to the point of the Minister-appointed state agent, a sort of government commissioner, but apparently it cannot have that name. We have some questions about this state agent. First of all, who's it gonna be? It seems very important to us that it should be someone who has been poked and mashed up to be able to function optimally at this level, in this complex snake pit with Air France. In addition to attending SVC meetings and preventing the Dutch tax money from disappearing to Paris, this state agent must also be sufficiently streetwise to avoid implicit transfers to Air France. For example, the elimination of passenger flows or transfer-pricing tricks, in which there is thus transit taxes from Paris to the Netherlands, between KLM and Air France. Then the money still flows through the back door to Air France. Does the Minister have anyone in mind who can perform this function? Yesterday, in the debate with Minister Wiebes on IHC, we talked extensively about Menno Snel, his former Secretary of State. He has since become a government commissioner at IHC. Is that the caliber people we're talking about? Would Mr Snel be available for that soon? Or should it be someone with more specific aviation knowledge? We'd like to hear a little more background from the minister. Mr. Chairman. Then we come to the next aspect of this package. A true grabbelton of politically correct intentions has been added to this rescue package for KLM, of which you wonder if they are actually feasible in practice. A number of things have already been mentioned by previous speakers. An important element in this grabbelton of requirements is the reduction of night flights. Before the corona crisis there were about 32,000 night flights, of which 80% came from KLM. The Minister states that this rescue package is mainly intended to maintain the international hub function of Schiphol and the international network of KLM, as this is crucial for the Dutch location climate. We fully recognise and underline this aim. But for this it is necessary that KLM can continue to operate night flights, so that important flights from strategic destinations in North America and Asia can land early in the morning, to feed the network again with new passengers. We therefore ask the Minister to make every effort not to reduce night flights too far, also in the interests of his own investment in KLM and in the interests of the Dutch economy and the Dutch taxpayer. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the part of the state guarantees. You might think it's about money, but in this case, the state guarantees mean the agreements made during the 2003 merger of KLM and Air France on the preservation of Schiphol as a hub for Air France and KLM and the preservation of KLM for the Netherlands. These state guarantees were now enforceable by the French, with a notice period of nine months. This is another consequence of the strategic blunder of the predecessor of this minister, PvdA Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who, in 2015, gave the French their will on all points, so as not to jeopardise his reappointment as president of the eurogroup. Dijsselbloem also declined to maintain the Dutch interest in the holding company Air France-KLM. An expensive mistake, as it turned out afterwards. These state guarantees have now been extended for five years as part of the rescue package. Our question to the Minister is: why only five years? Why no longer? With such an expensive deal we could have agreed a longer warranty period, especially because it is a lot of money. Can the Minister answer that? Mr President, I will conclude. We see that this deal buys time and is a flight ahead, but we have serious questions about the long-term sustainability of this rescue and we wonder whether the Minister has not gotten beyond the curve in this whole negotiation process and has had to go after the French. As far as we are concerned, that could have been different. If this package is not sustainable, if the corona crisis takes longer and the recovery of the market takes longer, what is the Minister's plan B as the next step with KLM? Is it possible to take into account a scenario if we all use English terms, I would call that the scenario One day I'll fly away in which the KLM independently flies out of the holding company Air France-KLM and continues on its own? We would like to hear that in the Minister's second term. That was my contribution so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u12	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I call Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u13	Mr. Chairman. Air France-KLM is an international company that has to compete in a market with unhealthy competition, with price stunters. Air France-KLM has a strong position in that market with a worldwide network. KLM's growth has also contributed strongly to the growth of Schiphol. KLM and Schiphol are of great economic importance for our economy with the intercontinental destination network. And that, again, is important for the climate of establishment, and I would like to say this today, with emphasis on our country's role for internationally operating companies. The 100-year-old blue bird is too small to fly alone and now also needs orange support, and more wings. Our country is too small to have an independent home, unlike Air France, British Airways and Lufthansa. From the marriage between Air France and KLM one can say what one wants, but at the time, in 2003, Air France was prepared to guarantee KLM's independence. I think that was far out of the picture with other interlocutors. Under that umbrella, KLM has experienced enormous growth and a strong financial position, varyingly. It was the profitmaker in the group with a still loss-making Air France. In this marriage, the strengths of both companies have so far gained from the weaknesses of each. But that's not self-evident anymore. The healthy future must be earned together. As in any marriage, there may be tensions between both partners. Minister Hoekstra's intervention to increase the interest in Air France-KLM by 14% in 2019 was proof of tensions. The marriage seemed to have the warmth of a refrigerator. In the year following that purchase, no tangible results have been achieved with regard to better cooperation. Can the Minister elaborate on that? Why has this not happened and what are the opportunities for improving this cooperation in the near future? The corona crisis was necessary to move both governments to more intense consultations, culminating in talks between Minister Hoekstra and Mr Le Maire, who I believe has his last working day in France today, and also culminating in a flash visit by Macron to Rutte, which I think KLM was also talking about. Let us remember that the word "crisis" in Chinese has a positive meaning. Let us be careful that we use the crisis improperly to impose requirements on KLM that only further deteriorate the current position, lead to many additional costs and make state aid even more risky. The Netherlands, as a small country, must have a strong international position in trade and international connections. Countries like Belgium and Switzerland can do without a large airline, not us. Then there's the deal package. First of all, I would like to congratulate both directors and officials who have undoubtedly worked hard on this intensely complex process for many days and nights. Ministers can look back on a balanced and wide range of agreements......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If you look at the package, it is clear that it took the time that had to be taken, and that under very great pressure of time. It was complicated with many banks and many advisors and with scenarios, in balance art with the French counterparts. Solving the liquidity problem was the highest priority due to the loss of 70% to 80% of flights. The minimum cash position has been determined on the basis of a number of scenarios. The relationship between the role of the market and the government was then determined, resulting in a State direct subordinated loan of 1 billion and a bank loan of 2.4 billion, under a State guarantee of 90%. In the absence of the State loan, the market loan would not have been successful, according to Minister Hoekstra. The State receives a substantial premium for that guarantee, up to 2%. After all, the state risk is high. The interest rate is also high: given the risk it is 6.25 up to 7.75. Percentages of around 7 are known to me as the yields of pension funds for 30 years. Can Minister Hoekstra explain again how he looks at a possible improvement in the capital position at a later date and a possible capital injection from the shareholders in view of the high debt position and the poorer solvency? That seems inevitable, looking at what is already happening at Lufthansa. The notice period for the State guarantee at that time was only nine months. This is of great importance for the use of Schiphol as an international hub and the permanent location of KLM in the Netherlands with Dutch permits and Dutch traffic rights in the fortunately large number of aviation treaties of our country. It is good that the deadline has now been extended to five years. It's an extra security for KLM and Schiphol. After the debate in the House of Representatives and the vote on the bill, it was announced that Air France would also intervene more strongly. In addition to the already known departure scheme for some 3,500 people, it would now have been decided to make redundancies. In total, 7,600 out of 43 000 jobs at Air France will be removed over the next two years. It is striking that a part of the French departure scheme is a special tax rate of 25%, of which it is noted. Sacrifices are now being demanded on the French side. Together, KLM and Air France are tackling the crisis. It is striking, however, that no wage-offering is requested on the French side, as I understand it. This puts pressure on the negotiations on the wage offer at the profitable KLM. Can Minister Hoekstra elaborate on this? Major sacrifices are demanded from KLM staff and major cuts are inevitable: 15% on impactable costs and savings on labour costs. For our group, maintaining as much employment as possible is a top priority. The demand for a wage sacrifice seems inevitable, but it is up to the negotiations between employers and trade unions to implement it. What are the consequences of the reduction in wages on the staff's pension structure? Can a reduction in pension levels be avoided? What are the consequences for the WW if after the wage sacrifice also follows resignation? I'd like an answer to both questions. It goes without saying that the strongest shoulders can carry the most, but as chambers, we should not interfere with their implementation. In addition to the direct salary, there are many secondary conditions of employment, which are very different for the various staff groups. These can also be adapted. My question to the Minister is to what extent parts of the wage offer can be temporary. Have more part-time and more and longer unpaid leave been discussed in the consultation with KLM, or is this something to be discussed in the negotiations? It could lead to fewer layoffs. I'd like a response from the Minister. The 50PLUS Group welcomes the commitment of Minister Hoekstra in the legislative consultation that the implementation of the wage offer is a matter for the social partners. Can the Minister explain again what he means by "the framework"? It's a condition, isn't it? In particular, my group supports the financial commitments that have been negotiated. In addition, conditions have been agreed on sustainability and viability. Can Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen comment on this, in particular on the CO target, the limitation of night flights and the link with the opening of Lelystad Airport? My group believes that every effort should be made on this point to avoid additional costs, especially in the short term, and to reconsider additional costs that would arise if the needs of the KLM so demand. Mr President, I will conclude. For my group, the sustainability of KLM and Air France-KLM must be paramount. It must not be put at risk, nor should it be the viable future for KLM personnel, for whom it is also a matter of survival. I'd like to wait for the answers from the two rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I call Mr Schalk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We see them flying again, those beautiful blue-and-white aircraft of the KLM, our national airline, also one of the big employers of the Netherlands. That's special, because the unprecedented coronaperikelen had made it very heavy weather. In heavy weather, it is dangerous to fly, as we know. That goes literally, but also figuratively, as it turned out during the underlying period. But now that we are getting back on track, the damage to businesses and the economy is gradually becoming apparent. In some sectors the blow has yet to come. In air traffic, things just collapsed right away. Fortunately, the government is helping in all kinds of ways. That is fine, especially when it concerns our own country, our own companies. At international level, it is a different story, but we will come back to that later in the day, when we deal with the third and fifth supplementary budgets. But it'll come later. Now it's about our own KLM. Mr. Chairman. This is a substantial amount of money that is initially granted as a loan. In short, the State borrows one billion, the banks borrow 2.4 billion and the State guarantees 90% for the last amount. So in the end, it could cost us about 3 billion. But hopefully the loan will be repaid. Important incentive is the rising interest rate, in the hope that the KLM will experience this as an incentive. Maybe that could turn out a whole other way. Anyway, that's the situation. By the way, what are the government's chances that the entire amount will not be repaid? Apparently, there is a need for a stimulus for nothing. Mr. Chairman. I would like to focus my contribution further on two important aspects: staff and sustainability. First of all, the human question. It was intended to ask for a wage sacrifice, an ascending range of 0% with a modal income to at least 20% with three modes. An important motion of the SGP in the Lower House dealt with this issue. My colleague Mr Stoffer, together with Mr Slootweg of the CDA, has asked in a motion for a resolution that KLM should insist that workers with an income of up to one and a half times as much as possible be spared from the restructuring plan. In fact, we are talking about a wage sacrifice of 5% at one and a half times. That's a lot of money for this group. The Minister gave that motion on the other side "judgement chamber" and that motion was also accepted. I understand that the time to act has been very short since the adoption of this bill in the House of Representatives, but flying is very fast. Hence the question whether the Minister has made contact on this matter or is going to do so in the short term. And then what will be the point? For all staff, I have the question of whether the Minister will also monitor how long the measure of the wage offer is going to last and whether compensation can be expected retroactively, as far as I am concerned, perhaps in reverse order, for example, from 20% to 0% in the higher regions. Mr. Chairman. My second point concerns sustainability. While it is well known that the SGP is a strong supporter of sustainability, it always sets two important preconditions: it must be feasible and affordable. Now, the aid package of 3.4 billion is subject to conditions which are at least contrary to one of those two conditions. Why are we going to a company that's hitting the edges, that's financially on its back, where we have to put $3.4 billion in to keep it up, make extreme demands? Isn't borrowing this money a disguised way of achieving climate goals? Is there not a risk that resources will now be used to put the KLM back on the map, but that this will result in a less competitive situation than other airlines? On this point, too, an interesting motion has been tabled by colleague Stoffer in the House of Representatives. That motion calls for an assessment of the costs to be incurred by KLM in order to meet the conditions relating to sustainability and to inform the Chamber before 1 October. This motion also received a ruling from the Chamber and this motion has also been accepted, but what if those costs are very disappointing? Do we dare to prioritize? Is it possible to first ensure that KLM gets back on its feet and only then to take up the sustainability requirements again, at a normal pace and taking into account international developments in this area? Mr. Chairman. You will understand that the SGP agrees with the government that the KLM is flying ahead, but flying must be balanced. I look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I call Mr Vendrik on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u17	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, I would like to follow Ferd Crone's example of complimenting the cabinet for the great amount of work, as well as all officials who have undoubtedly worked many night hours. I hope there will be some breathing space for a moment to rest in the near future. Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis leads to a near-death experience in various corners of the economy. Public support for people and businesses in need is then very obvious. Many of the measures recently taken by the cabinet have the political support of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. It is important to note that, in times of transition, this often, in part inevitable, includes support for yesterday's old economy, while we know that this economy needs to be drastically preserved. We don't have much time for that anymore. That is why, as far as our group is concerned, every opportunity must be taken to establish state aid as effectively as possible. That is to say, we are fully supporting them in tomorrow's economy and thus the sustainable transition. There are also conditions for moderation of working conditions at the top, avoidance of tax avoidance and a healthy business plan. But we have known for a long time that aviation, in particular, is the wrong misfit in this sustainable transition. Mr. Chairman. With the recent cabinet decision to support KLM with 3.4 billion, the cabinet failed to make additional commitments on sustainability. For example, I read last week's debate in the Lower House, the documents of the Cabinet and yesterday's written replies. What the Cabinet tells us about sustainability, are not conditions. That's state-of-the-art policy. Those are standing promises. The conclusion must therefore be that the cabinet, other than an exchange with the parliament, has not established sustainable conditions. I ask the Cabinet to explain this. In particular, I ask the Minister for Infrastructure and the Water State how the French did it. The French package would also be subject to sustainability conditions, for example in the field of domestic flights. Now France is bigger than the Netherlands, but I have the feeling that steps have been taken there and I would like to ask for the appreciation of the cabinet of how the French have done so. The key question is, of course, why this round of aid has not been used for sustainable conditions. Because if this isn't the time to take that kind of step, when is it? Then where is the government's initiative to actually bind the aviation sector and KLM to the entire Paris Agreement? If we continue like this, aviation will become a beached asset in size and know that yesterday's economy is full of beached assets. Mr. Chairman. In the case of individual aid to companies, here KLM, it is also important that existing financiers and stakeholders take their part in the downturn: bail-in. Colleagues have already spoken about it. I now understand that KLM's further restructuring proposal examines how other financiers, such as leasing companies or fuel companies, take their share. I still don't understand why that hasn't been taken care of now. Isn't this the time to bring together funding and plan, including an orderly bail-in? Why is it, then, that the staff take a share, which is understandable, without having spoken to the staff? I don't get this. It seems unbalanced to me. I would also ask the Cabinet for further explanations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u18	I have a question in connection with Mr Vendrik's comments on sustainability. Is he familiar with the September announcement last year that in the airline category a particular airline has become the best in the world according to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index? Do you happen to know what airline that is, the number one sustainable airline in the world?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u19	I really have no idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u20	That's the KLM. The KLM is thus already number one in the world according to the independent Dow Jones Sustainability Index in the field of sustainability. That's why I was talking about the grabbelton in my contribution. They're doing everything they can, and that's very good. We should not take advantage of this situation now to put KLM again with unfeasible and priceless demands, to join Mr Schalk, to put the knife to the throat. They're already doing very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u21	For my group, one thing is clear. What is really priceless, but totally, is uncontrolled climate change. What is beyond my group's control is that no company and no citizen can avoid the responsibility for a common approach to climate change. What is clear to my group is that, as I have just said, the aviation sector really needs to be brought up to speed. I believe that it has already been changed in the debate last week: KLM is undoubtedly doing its best, but it is the cleanest boy in a very dirty class. We're gonna push the case for us again. We've done that for 30 years. For 30 years, the illusion in the aviation sector has held high that we can grow without having to do anything about climate change. The Sustainable Aviation Agreement, which the Minister wrote down as a so-called condition for KLM's support, was agreed last year and is based on a 50% reduction in CO emissions by 2050. That's not an agreement from Paris. In this way you cannot in any way keep a credible story to the rest of the industrial sector, for example in the Netherlands, which we rightly ask to have all CO emissions reduced to zero by 2050 at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u22	I think your answer is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u23	It's time to intervene. This is a unique opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u24	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u25	The cabinet has a preference for guarantees and loans over the provision of equity capital, we read the general line that this cabinet wants to follow on support. I don't quite understand that, but it's happened here at KLM as well. Colleagues have already asked about it. What is the cabinet's resistance to providing equity? I refer, for example, to Arnoud Boot's plea, which pointed this out. He says: beware of providing debt in the case of aid. I ask the Minister to explain this choice here, especially since the cabinet itself, as I understand from the documents, has left open the option of providing KLM with additional own funds in the second instance, if this package is not sufficient. Do I understand what the Minister said about this last week in the House of Representatives well if I sum up as follows? A reflection of the cabinet not to follow this route is that the relations between Air France and KLM will then be disrupted. Am I getting that right? But if that is the decisive reason for providing debt mainly, why is that option still in the picture if a second round is needed? Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that my group also believes that the flight tax should be introduced as soon as possible. It was too low, it has to go up. But let's start by introducing him in an orderly manner on January 1, 2021. I see a glimpse of great recognition by the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik. Finally, Mr Pijman has the floor on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u27	Mr. Chairman. The support measures which the Cabinet intends to grant to continue the continuity of the KLM are of public interest. The KLM is closely linked to Schiphol, and the loss of the KLM would have far-reaching consequences for the future of Schiphol and its international hub status. And that would put the employment of tens of thousands of Dutch people at risk. The KLM is in very severe weather, which justifies an aid operation. In public opinion, there has been a debate about why this company is receiving so much support and other sectors of society far less, while there is also a great deal of employment. The culture sector is the main focus of attention. That debate is rightly being held. D66 appreciates that the cabinet has supported the basic infrastructure of culture by 300 million. Those aren't loans or guarantees, they're gifts. But D66 also believes that local authorities, the municipalities, need strong support to maintain cultural infrastructure, cultural centres, libraries and sports facilities. Even before Corona, the water was already on the lips of many municipalities, after the discounts of the previous cabinet, under Plasterk, of 1 billion, which would be accompanied by a municipal scale increase that had not been achieved. There were also the failed decentralisations in the social sector, with some 40% of the budgets withheld, under the Rutte/Asscher cabinet. Municipalities must be able to continue providing services to citizens and to cope with the social consequences of this crisis. D66 calls on the cabinet to address this in the forthcoming budget. Mr. Chairman. In the public debate it is often said that the cabinet gives the billions. That is not the case. The aid consists of guarantees and loans with strong interest rates. In addition, the KLM needs to be restructured in order to acquire the loan, which consists of several tranches. The restructuring plan must be in place by 1 October of this year. It has to make the KLM more competitive. A lot is also expected of the staff. There is a wage sacrifice, up to 20% for the highest income. Bonuses are suspended and dividends may not be paid. Tax avoidance of some employees must be avoided, and the use of tax structures in low-tax jurisdictions must be avoided. You also set conditions in the field of public interests, network quality............................................................................................................................................................ Does international coordination also take place here, so that a level playing field is created? Mr. Chairman. Private lending amounts to 2.4 billion. The State guarantees 90%, which is very substantial, also in comparison with other lending operations. Does this mean that the private sector is underestimating the chances of success of the restructuring operation? The lending has been shaped as a revolving credit facility. The Dutch State receives a premium from the KLM for the guarantee, up to 2% over the credit ceiling. But who supervises the terms of the guarantee? In addition to the guarantee, the State grants a subordinated loan at a substantial interest rate. Can the Minister explain to us that Crone also asked why there is a subordinated loan here, which puts the risks to other lenders disproportionate to the State? Have you considered other scenarios, such as a bail-in? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The whole operation also has consequences for the opening or non-opening of Lelystad Airport. Can the Minister outline the process, from this operation, how we proceed with that? As a supervisor, the state appoints a government state agent, a government commissioner we would call earlier. It has access to all information and may be at all major meetings and advises the State whether a new tranche of the loan may be granted. A report by the Court of Auditors states that there should not be too much of this type of supervisor. That is certainly true, according to D66, for a company like the KLM, which is again part of a larger whole and is partly dependent on it. What can be done, for example, if the KLM does comply with the restructuring plan to be drawn up, but still distributes bonuses or only partially meets the sustainability requirements and viability? What do you do? Does the KLM have to meet all the conditions for a subsequent tranche of the loan, or is there a separate consideration each time? And what is the role of the parliament in this? Mr. Chairman. There is now a balanced package of measures. I would also like to congratulate you both, with your staff, for the great amount of work that has gone into it. We've seen an operation at the KLM before. The Netherlands has previously bought in with a 14% share package in order, like the French State, to influence the group. It seems likely that Air France-KLM, after the mutual support operations of France and the Netherlands and the high level of debt that will arise, will soon need new capital to survive. A capital injection will then be requested from the shareholders. So what do we do? Because if we do nothing, it weakens our position. But in order to answer that question properly, I think we need an answer to the question of whether the operation of that time, which was 14%, was expected to be fulfilled. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the key question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u28	Mr Pijlman asked a number of critical questions to the Ministers. I would be interested to hear what he has to say. He also concluded that there is a balanced package. Does he also think that this package is balanced in terms of sustainability conditions? I know D66 as a party with a strong commitment to sustainability. He was just talking about the terms and the role of the state agent in it. But what does he actually think of these conditions when it comes to sustainability?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u29	Like everyone else in this Chamber, we would, of course, like to see aviation contribute more to the sustainability objectives. I have said that I think this objective is balanced, because one interest is now paramount. We can now further strengthen the sustainability approach, but if we no longer have KLM and thus the status of Schiphol is under pressure, then we will put the horse behind the cart. I also believe that there should be a level playing field in Europe. I assume, and I have also asked for this, that the Ministers will soon address the question of how we will ensure that the Air France package, as well as Lufthansa and others, has the same requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u30	"Like everyone else in this house," I honestly doubt that, but I leave it to others to respond to it. Have I understood correctly that Mr Pijlman says that D66 considers sustainability to be important, and I assume that Mr Pijlman agrees with me that the climate crisis is rather acute, but that the sustainability requirements do not need to be further tightened in this case, because the first priority should be KLM? That sustainability will come later, we'll put it on the long track.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u31	No, I also think that you are wrongly quoting me with "we do care." No, it is extremely necessary that we now make the success that we have to make because of the climate crisis. The same applies, of course, to aviation, although you have to remember that CO emissions from global aviation do not exceed 5%. So instead of pointing to aviation alone, we also have some other objectives to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u32	Mr Van Apeldoorn, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u33	In my view, I understand that Mr Pijlman says that the aviation sector must also do things but retains an exceptional position. After all, what is now being asked of the aviation sector is less than what is being asked of other sectors. Does Mr Pijlman agree with me that, as I pointed out in my own speech, these conditions do not concern new conditions, but things that were already on paper in the agreement on sustainable aviation of a number of years ago and that they have now been reconfirmed? There are therefore no new additional requirements for KLM in terms of sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u34	No, I don't agree with you. Additional conditions are laid down in the area of sustainability, such as night flights and nuisances. I also think that the conditions that have been laid down before are very easy to put under pressure in such a situation and that it has therefore been very wise of the ministers to reaffirm those conditions. I would ask: how will you assess it when, for example, part of the restructuring operation is achieved but not another part? What does that mean for the loans? Where's the priority? I am also asking, like Mr Crone, for the level playing field, which must be there for the whole of aviation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u35	I have a bit of a specific question for Mr Pijlman about those sustainability requirements that he considers to be justified. That's the biokerosin. Does the D66 group still consider it justified to require the KLM to add biokerosin, and this of course in the light of the new view on biomass?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u36	Yeah, I still think that's justified. Also the proportion of kerosene the KLM needs to absorb. Not all biomass is bad. That will also be a hype: everything is bad. Of course it isn't. There is a lot of responsible biomass, which also makes a real contribution to the energy transition. It's about what is and what isn't. You pointed out in your speech that there were also costs involved. The KLM has previously agreed certain percentages to be added. The same applies to the proportion in a factory to make the biokerosin. We stand by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u37	Please continue your argument, Mr. Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u38	Mr. Chairman. I was thinking about the key question: will the KLM stand up with this package and can Schiphol retain its international status as a hub? I think it's very easy to say yes to that, but we also know how hard this fight is going to be. That is why I ask you both to reflect on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u39	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the debate until after dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-3.u40	I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
