ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u1	Let's move on. Could you calm down a little bit? Mr Omtzigt, too. Otherwise, I'm gonna make all these masks tighten up a little bit. The next item is the Tax Plan, again. Anyway, today's night falls at 11:00 or earlier, this hammer. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Wij hebben veel te doen, dus wij moeten kort en puntig zijn.]] We'll start with the Minister of Economic Affairs later. He answers all the questions. The Minister of the Interior will then speak, followed by the two State Secretarys. Then we move on to the second term and we can table motions. That means the motions are going to be commented on by the two Secretary of State, I presume. Someone has to judge that. The cabinet must therefore somehow regulate its communication. Then we'll go through it. Mrs. Mulder, what can I do for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. I can imagine that after Minister Wiebes has reflected on all our questions yesterday about the ODE and the law on the CO levy, Secretary of State, Mr Vijlbrief, at that moment, will immediately complement them. Well, at least we know that part of that block is finished. Or does the Minister do all that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u3	The minister says he's gonna explain that to us. Mr. Nijboer brought his call.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u4	Yes, because I have a number to read. I would like to withdraw an amendment. That is the amendment to item No. 9 (35576), by that housing law. I had two amendments on the transfer tax cap. At one point, the border was five tons. That was an old one, and I'm moving in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u5	The Nijboer amendment (Doc. 9) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u6	The amended schedule states that there will be a meeting until 10.30 p.m., because the minks will then be discussed. I can imagine that VAO isn't completely fixed yet. The question is, when would we do that? I was gonna say "you can take poison on it," but they're gassed, I think. The question is what time exactly we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u7	I want to spend as much time on the Tax Plan as possible, because it's 300 billion. Our friends from the mink have to be kept as short as possible a little before 11:00 p.m. As far as I'm concerned, I'll do it at 10:55. But I need to see how busy it's gonna be with that VAO and how many people are gonna sign up there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u8	My comment is also not intended as a question for a VAO about the mink, but more to be sure that we will be able to conclude this debate in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u9	As far as I'm concerned, 11:00 a.m. is 11:00 a.m. Those are just the corona measures, so at 11:00 p.m. I'm closing the door for all of you. It's up to you to be as short and pointy as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u10	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs. He'll tell you the railroad book, too. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u11	Mr. Chairman. I wanted to answer the questions that were raised yesterday about the CO levy and about the ODE. That's what I do in that order. The CO levy is a piece of art that File Letter and I do together. It seems to us wise that I should take care of the whole response, including the amendments. It could have been the other way around. That would have resulted in the same content, probably with a more friendly tone, but you still owe File Letter. Within that CO levy I go into the knowledge and the form of that levy. There are several concerns with the spokesmen about road leaks. All actions to monitor and monitor it are also covered. That's how I wanted to work through it. There are several concerns on both sides of the spectrum. It can even be done at the same time. The first concern is whether the levy is strict enough. It's probably the highest CO charge on Earth. That's what I said in the WHO. I'm not going into that any further. But the calls and the concerns about whether he is strict enough are actually very different in nature. They also need to be treated differently. Mr Snels actually wants a flat charge on top of it, and specifically for industry. Mr Van Raan wants the opposite. He wants a uniform tax in all sectors. They will agree that it has to be stricter, but they still have very different thoughts about it. That's why we need to take turns. I'm gonna try to do that as soon as possible. First I come to Mr Snels. What he said was right and he referred to the WHO. He used an economic argument. He did not complain yesterday, but explicitly stated that he did receive a very economic answer. That's right, because if you have an economic reasoning, you get an economic answer. Mr Snels held a political argument yesterday. So he's also entitled to a political answer, no matter what he gets from me. Firstly, I say, purely for the record, that the fans of any increase in the burden on business in this cabinet period have almost more than ever come to their senses. That does not disqualify Mr Snels' proposals. You can always increase the burden further. The political point is that this cabinet does indeed choose to give industry a genuinely strong incentive that is also sufficient to achieve these goals. At the same time, we choose to keep the playing field and not drive industry abroad. I think that's a different choice than GroenLinks would make. I also think that Mr Snels will agree with me that a small analysis shows that it is unlikely that it will be the supporters of GroenLinks who could be the victims of the removal of industry. This would be the case with many other parties. It is clearly in the public interest that it should be 'green' here instead of 'grey' elsewhere and that we should keep the jobs here instead of seeing them move away. That is the political choice of the cabinet. I say to Mr Snels that in doing so we want the levy to work, to achieve the objective and to be sufficient. Mr Van Raan has lived in me and rightly says: every economist should think that there is a uniform CO price. He's right about that. The ETS is a good candidate for this. However, our goal at the beginning of this cabinet period was significantly more ambitious for industry than the ETS could guarantee. That's why we put a shovel on top of it. Who knows, if the green deal fails successfully, it might be a broader tax and a higher tax, I might assume. Perhaps the future will serve Mr Van Raan. However, it is not yet that far, because we cannot do it now purely with the ETS. Mr Van Raan specifically asked for an extension in a special sector, namely livestock farming. Wouldn't it be a good instrument there? Let me put it this way. A very expert study group is working on all kinds of instruments to deliver on the green deal and the emissions of methane, for example, and also nitrogen, are included. I would therefore like to await these proposals before I say a sensible word on this in the direction of Mr Van Raan. Mr Stoffer is also fishing for a uniform levy. He says, "Why don't we just leave it to the ETS?" That question is the subject of the previous answer. That would therefore be insufficient for this purpose, but who knows that we will be less concerned about achieving the goals at European level. Then Mr Stoffer also gets what he suggests. The previous one was about one concern, but on the other side of the spectrum it's about road leakage. I do not even call it the political spectrum, because left and right are represented in both parts of the spectrum. Lodders, Mulder, Stoffer and Van Haga are concerned about road leaks, as are the trade unions and works councils. They're pretty real concerns. In the short and medium term, we have a stricter target than there was until recently in Europe. Small differences in costs may lead to a significant loss of production in this type of product. In particular, in the direction of Mr Van Haga, who has asked many questions on this subject, I say the following. Is it the case that we then accept, foresee, etcetera? I would say that our strategy is considerably more offensive than strictly preventing road leaks. I explained in detail in the WHO why I think that the design of the instrument minimizes the leak, but the strategy is much more offensive. I have sent a letter on the strategy for the basic industry and I think that is one of the rare letters that Mr Van Haga does address. But the reasoning goes as follows: more and more industries are in need of sustainability, which is verifiable. Whether it's fun or not, it's not fun. It is inevitable and therefore they are looking for the right strategy and the right location. And it's a coincidence, a lucky coincidence, but the Netherlands is ideally suited for the establishment of this kind of sustainable basic industries, even if they are energy-intensive. The reason for this is not only nautical accessibility and hinterland connections, but also wind at sea, for example. This can be a natural source for green hydrogen. The energy infrastructure needed for this is more present here than in any country on earth, because we already have our gas infrastructure. The possibilities for heat separation close to industry also play a role in this, as do the possibilities for CCS and access to the SDE. This is a country to settle in if you think greening is inevitable! It's our strategy to capitalize exactly that. So we want to speed up the exploitation of the benefits and at the same time speed up the sustainability process. This indeed means that we have a firm goal and that we offer those benefits at the same time at such an early stage. This not only reduces road leaks, but also promotes influx. The first signs that this works are visible, because there are companies that are established in the Netherlands for that reason. That doesn't mean we have to be carefree about the road leak. Mrs. Mulder isn't. Mr Stoffer is not. Mrs. Lodders isn't. And I'm not! What are the bottlenecks in construction ceramics, for example? Mr Stoffer and Mrs Mulder both asked. Look, the construction industry is a sector in which all kinds of parties perform better than the benchmark. It is also a sector where the levy, if it were to go wrong, would be a limited part in itself. It is also a relatively national sector. Nevertheless, we must do everything we can to make it work. That's what those front-runner programs were designed for. They're encouraging. That looks good. For the government and the public and private parties, this is also a basis for establishing tools and infrastructure. The more specific the programmes become, the more concrete we can respond to them. The bottlenecks are also present in these front-runner programmes, and that is what we need to work with each other over the next few years. The RVO makes these leading programmes an in-depth analysis and on that basis we should be able to see what else needs to be done. We cannot say that yet, but we do know that this needs to be taken into account and that it is important. This applies to this sector, but in all honesty also to a number of other sectors. Mr Van Raan is stealing Mrs Mulder from me now! I'm just gonna rest in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u12	I did pay attention to the Minister, and I think he saw it. I am very curious when we will be informed about this. I am, because I want to prevent us from having to use that $125 million jar at the back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u13	I don't know exactly when we're gonna... Let me just inform you when the RVO and then the people in the department have looked carefully at those specific front-runner programs. It's important that that happens and I'll check it out. So I will come back to that in a moment, because keeping an eye on it requires more than just keeping an eye on it. That is precisely why the whole circus that we are building up in the field of infrastructure is so important. If we let this go, it's gonna go wrong. And then it also goes wrong in industries that are a priori very promising. We miss so many opportunities if we don't do this right. I'm gonna go into the waste incineration plants first. Again, Mrs Mulder, but also Mr Stoffer, asked a question about this. Aren't they pulling away? The levy has a cautious path of growth, and that is what is needed, because it gives companies an opportunity to act. At the AVIs they have three or four years to work on solutions. It may be that there is a reduction in volume, but that does not have to be due to leakage, especially in the case of waste, where it is quite a hassle to get it across the border. It may also be that the incentive is right. We not only have the aim of applying it in a more meaningful way, but we also have the aim of doing more circular. This means that waste eventually turns into a raw material and that there is less to burn. That's also one of the goals. We must recognise that this circular economy is part of the coalition agreement. This means that we end up with less waste because waste is reused. Through the SDE++ there are also all kinds of subsidies to stimulate and support that circular economy, to recycle more, but also to reduce CO at AVIs. Frankly, the concern of those who work directly with this is a little less pregnant than that of Mrs Mulder, but we have to keep an eye on it and take it seriously. If things really go wrong in the Netherlands, there are always governments that are rethinking them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u14	Perhaps the Minister would also like to come back to the question of when we are going to take a serious look at this at the moment he has just checked the answer about when we are going to do that for the construction industry. Because I think it's a problem. Then the Minister can say that in itself the waste incineration plant does not go abroad, but perhaps the waste will go there. That's a problem, too. Or there might be less waste coming in that would otherwise have a lot of CO emissions outside. So I'd like to take a look at it anyway. It's about all these flows together. In fact, the Minister says to this waste incineration plant: you will get that levy; if it bankrupts you, so be it, because we are doing a lot more circular.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u15	This is a very creative...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u16	I'll charge you, but I'd like to know what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u17	It is a very grim interpretation of my words, which I tried in the opposite way. No, I don't agree with this lecture. It is also not so much as Mrs Mulder's words suggested that we have not yet looked at it at all and that we will start looking at this sector at some point in the future. That's not true. I will try to see what the next benchmarks are, for example the RVO screenings, in relation to these two sectors. That's the promise I make. That could come in the second term, but it is, I think, up to my colleague Mr Mulder to tell her what the scheduled moments are for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u18	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u19	Then the point remains: but what if? I just hinted at that, and I also said it in the WHO. How do we keep an eye on this? How do we ensure that the maximum number of people in this room is performed? The government, the Empire, has done a lot of work on this, developed a whole system to proactively take care of the new, sustainable infrastructure. That is extremely important. Without it, it's gonna fail. A system similar to that of roads and road infrastructure, for example, has been rigged for this purpose. We'll keep an eye on that after that. Of these there are also annual reports to the Chamber. Where necessary, we must act. That 'action where necessary' is more in the front than in the back; in that I fully agree with Mrs Mulder. Take what I dropped out of the school about the other day, namely what we are doing towards Tata, but also a number of other parties. That is very intensive, with a team on the side of EZK and also a team on the side of the company itself, with the aim of figuring out how to do this. Then we usually find parties who have extremely extensive plans, which are still uncertain about how they fit into the government's instruments, how they fit into the permits, how this is related to infrastructure planning and how it relates to spatial planning issues. We can help with that. It is important to do this in advance and not afterwards, and that is what we are really doing, and to some mutual enthusiasm. So that's the way we do it. I think that is more hands-on than in recent economic history. Mr Bruins asked: are we going to hear how that goes? To that, of course, I say yes. He knows that, too. For example, the KEV and the moment around the KEV are extremely suitable. I have already said a little bit to Mrs Mulder that we should not be alarmed at the end and should not think: oh dear, oh dear, now everything has gone wrong and we only have a game left. The goal is not to use the jar at all. That's the goal. The goal is to succeed and not to make it fail. I couldn't agree more with her. We are working hard on options within the SDE++ to help, for example, these industries. I said more about this during the WHO. In terms of time, I will not do so now, but it is being looked at in detail. As far as infrastructure is concerned, the entire planning is ongoing and started. We'll keep an eye on them. That jar's a pain in the ass. That forces me to give a rather curious answer to the question put by Mr Stoffer. He said, "Can the minister tell us where we're gonna put that pot?" In line with Mrs Mulder's concern, of course, I am not going to say a word about this, because if I mention one sector, situation or type of company to which we are going to spend it, then we will stop thinking and hang on to that pot. The jar would then turn from a last resort into a first resort. You shouldn't, because the pot is a last resort, no, a very last resort. That means I don't know where to put that. If I knew that, I wouldn't have to tell you, but I would have to do everything in my power to prevent that goal from being achieved. So my answer would make itself redundant. I apologize very much to Mr Stoffer for not answering his question so explicitly. I promise the spokesmen that I will not answer another question as explicitly as this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u20	Noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u21	The minister says it's time around the KEV where we can see how fast the CO is going. But what exactly are the chunks of information? But more importantly, what are the tools that the Chamber has at the time to speed up or, depending on your ideology, slow down?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u22	The KEV not only reports on how emissions are going, but also looks at what is happening with the measures. We would do things to reduce emissions later. To what extent do these things happen? In fact, the Climate Act makes a distinction between what you do and what you achieve. They're looking at both. For both there are different by-steam moments. If you don't do things, you'll need to correct them promptly. That's why KEV also looks at these things. Is something happening? Any plans? Are investments being made? Is there any investment? Is an installation being built that will lead us to climate neutrality?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u23	Then I expect to hear from the minister: you have an English key, a bahco, a cross screwdriver, a hammer and a saw. What are the tools the Chamber has to say: Cabinet, go do this and do that? What can we actually do to influence that pace?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u24	I do not think that the draft parliamentary system has given any thought to what the government should do from within the Chamber. Then perhaps the government should also consider what the Chamber should do, and that is not helping. The government has all kinds of ways, and not just the existing instruments, to intervene and interfere, from productive interventions to the application of more or less positive instruments. Mr Bruins has the role of controlling the government. The worst thing you can do is say that you are extremely dissatisfied with the government and that there must be another government. But there are a lot of steps for that. It is Mr Bruins who can always understand this and see if the government is doing what it has to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u25	Yeah, okay. We have interventions and incentives. Is that about the kind of tool the minister would point to? Because it doesn't sound very concrete yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u26	No, look, let me give you an example of what we've done recently. We have a whole set of instruments, from SDE up to and including all of them. At the same time, we see that it is extremely complex for a company like Tata to do this. Also on the basis of very detailed plans you can see that there is still a lot of work to be done and drawn. At this particular time, I think it could be up to a government to intervene in a productive and positive way and to help the company not only to become sustainable but also to maintain employment. That interference, I told you, has obviously not been fashionable in recent decades and is now, I think, necessary. So I'm not going to be very ideological about it: it's necessary now, so I'm going to do it. There are all kinds of interference, Mr Bruins can imagine. In the direction of Mrs Mulder, I say that RVO's in-depth analysis of the front-runner programmes will be completed by the summer of next year. I myself would like to tell Mrs Mulder whether that is public or not and whether we can debate it, but I do not know, because I do not know whether it contains company confidential data. I hope to receive further information as to whether I can promise Mrs Mulder that she will have an insight into this so that we can look at it appropriately. That's a request I'm making here. The spokesmen still have the appreciation of the various amendments. I hope I have the latest state of affairs on that point. Is the amendment in part No. Nine still filed? That's Snels and Van der Lee's amendment. I'll take a look at Snels and see that it's still filed. It is a charge of €10 per tonne. In the WHO, I have said that this will not lead to additional CO reduction, but Mr Snels has informed me that in his view it will lead to greater justice. Then, in my turn, I report that this leads to a direct problem for companies. Let me give you an example, based on public sources. Take the company Yara. This will have to pay an additional 22 million by 2030, even if it achieves the reduction target in its entirety. The profit in 2018 was higher than that. I also have all kinds of horrible numbers from Dow and I have even worse numbers from Tata. I'm not gonna read it to you. The request is soon an attack on the viability of those companies without it leading to additional greening. I don't think we should. I believe that if climate change and the whole of the climate agreement lead to job losses, it will soon disappear. That's what I'm afraid of. Number 10. Beckerman and...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u27	The amendment in part No. So 9 is dissuaded, isn't it? We need to hear it properly and officially.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u28	9 has been dissuaded. Is the amendment in part No. Ten still filed? I can see that it is. That is the Beckerman and Alkaya amendment and says that the national rate is at the top of the ETS price. I find this amazing, because the way in which this amendment is argued is that the SP assumes that the current levy will not be sufficient to achieve the objective. This while I explained in the WHO that we are asking PBL exactly what the appropriate price path is, so that, according to PBL, our referee, the goal is achieved. But even before PBL has the data to calculate this, Mrs Beckerman knows better than PBL that the target is not being met. And one more thing. I don't want to interfere with the electoral strategy of the SP. Maybe that wouldn't lead to success. However, I do not know of any other amendment which puts the SP in the footsteps of its own target group and its own supporters. This is dangerous and I would advise against the amendment. Then there is the amendment to No. 12. That belongs to Mr Stoffer, who wants to exempt the waste incineration plants from the CO levy. I have not heard from Mr Stoffer how we are going to achieve the corresponding reduction in a different way. This point has been discussed in detail in the debate and in the WHO. On that basis, I advise against this amendment. Then Mr Stoffer has another amendment to the law in mind in relation to the proposal. That is the amendment to item No. 13 on the exclusion of CO supply to greenhouse horticulture for this levy. If we followed this amendment, it would provide a curious incentive, because then the greenhouse would become the new chimney. Then there is an incentive for every industry to let the exhaust gases go out via a greenhouse. It would give the Maasvlakte a whole new perspective, but it would not lead to a sensible CO reduction. I can't. There are other ways to solve this problem, which is well-known and which is really a problem. I spoke in the WHO about the innovation pilot. That's how I wanted to fix this. I do not recommend the amendment to item No. 13. The amendment in part No. 14 is about adjusting the reduction factor. I don't think that's very happy either. Mr Snels and I probably agree that the final levy should be one that leads to this objective, but he will undoubtedly have to agree with me in one way or another that a company should also have a chance to do what is necessary to prevent this levy if the aim is to prevent it. That is not if the levy is applied immediately. Then you'll be punished for things you haven't had the opportunity to avoid. That is so contrary to the intention of this bill that I must also discourage this amendment. In the meantime, I can tell Mrs Mulder that the analyses are being sent to the Chamber and that on this basis we can look again at the probability of the various front-runner programmes and discuss again how we can avoid the use of the jar.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u29	So this applies both to the construction ceramic sector and to the incineration of waste?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u30	Yeah, that's all the front-runner programs. That's six.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u31	We are still waiting for your appreciation of the amendments to items Nos. 11 and 16. No. 16 was just handed out, but no. 11 you already have in your possession.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u32	11 and 16...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u33	No. 16 belongs to Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u34	Yes. I don't want to go after the person with my advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u35	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u36	I'm going to try to do that by the end of this term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u37	Very well, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u38	In the meantime, I'm gonna go to the ODE. Mrs Lodders was concerned about the ODE levy and about tariffs. It wants to know how we could limit a further increase. The increase has, of course, always been in the books. The leader of the coalition agreement was all that increase. We've seen that rise work, too. We have also heard this in the debates. We have seen this in all kinds of things, especially in the burdens of the companies that have been given this increase over the past period. But now we are an end, because where we were talking about a total size of 1 billion in the beginning, we are now 2.6, and we are going to 3.4, so the biggest increase is over. But in the WHO I also mentioned that there are many ways of looking at whether the system is right and whether there are other ways to finance it. Mrs Lodders knows that we will have more information on this in spring 2021, and more ideas and transfers. Mrs. Mulders asks... no, Mrs. Lodders, I'm not done with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u39	It is perhaps good, because the Minister is about to leave the Chamber, that I state that I am curious from the VVD about the new system. We are looking forward to it at the beginning of next year. I'd love to have it as soon as possible, but we can't break iron with our hands either. Thank you for this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u40	Yes. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Mulder even showed a little bit of resentment yesterday and asked whether I had noticed that there had been a imbalance in the rise in the ODE rates in the higher discs versus the lower ones, and how that happened. That is what we are going to say to Mrs Mulder, because we have chosen to reverse a uniform set of rates that were still in the coalition agreement, with the increase in this cabinet period almost entirely coming to large consumers. That was policy. The half-half-distribution has been a one-third-two-third distribution. That's what we did to keep the households safe. But if you keep the amount the same and avoid one, you charge the other extra. So I fear that there is no other answer than that Mrs Mulder and I, each in our own role, have set out this policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u41	In itself, we were all there and we are also okay with that. Only the question is whether that division between that third and that fourth disc could not have been otherwise. There were rounding differences in that. I just think that's a little vague. That was my question, and I still have no answer to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u42	Well, "vague" I don't know. It has been explained that one rate has not been visually altered due to rounding. That is not vague; it is no different. On the relation between the third and fourth disc there is a very extensive study. For the vast majority of companies, this has led to an increase, but an inevitable increase, for some not. But I can assure Mrs Mulder that the amount of study that has gone into trying to see if it can be otherwise has been endless. This has not led to a sensible adjustment. As a result, we have prepared a pot of 25 million a year for two years to solve this more specifically.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u43	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u44	Then my question is how big these rounding differences are. Can that be made concrete?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u45	Well, a rounding is always a minority of the last decimal. I would like that to be calculated in more decimals, but I do not know if Mrs Mulder's big point has been helped. Mrs. Mulder is seeing something I also understand. She sees things all rise and one thing doesn't rise and says: oh, that's crazy; is that a political choice? No, unfortunately that's how rounds work. I would like to make sure that the figure really is used by Mrs Mulder to check that there really is a question of rounding, but this is not based on a political choice. I'd be happy to get that number calculated. I'm sure we can do that soon. Then you will hear Mr Vile letter's extensive number, but there will be no new insight, because I assure Mrs Mulder that there is no political choice. Mr Stoffer asks whether there is any possibility of increasing that ODE tax less quickly. He pointed out that there was a possibility and said that cash expenditure was lagging behind. That's right, because some projects have been delayed. This does not mean that the funds are no longer needed, because something that is not spent but needed for the Climate Agreement will be spent later. And there are no surpluses in the SDE pot. I hear Mrs Beckerman saying that we took it out. She's right about that. That is not part of the policy I was proud of at the time. She's right, that's true, but that does mean we can't temporize this now. Mr Mulder and Mrs Beckerman asked how we could reduce household energy bills. I keep reporting, but Mrs Beckerman considers that a very unsatisfactory outcome is that the energy bill for a household with average consumption has been declining for years. This is a result of a major intervention that we had to do last year, but that was ultimately the result. That burden-sharing has been dealt with. I continue to think it is most sensible to address purchasing power issues in full, but Mrs Beckerman cannot hear that argument anymore. I know that about her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u46	That's right. On the one hand, of course, it does not make much sense to have this debate, because we are not moving forward. On the other hand, I find it strange in every debate how carefully the Minister deals with jobs and burdens businesses, and how much effort is being made to prevent leakage. Of course that is very important, but on the household side we are so rigorous. Then the Minister says, on average, it's not so bad. Yes, on average it's beautiful, but there are still 650,000 households in energy poverty. Yesterday we saw the figures of the CBS, which says: households pay €242 per tonne of CO. The Minister says with every solution outlined by the SP: we're not gonna do that, we're not gonna do that, we're not gonna do that. Whether it is a question of reducing taxes for households or tackling energy poverty among households. We're all part of this: njet. Then what is the Minister's plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u47	In a lot of cases, we don't hear a njet. The suggestion that this cabinet would pay more attention to the household books of a company than to a household is not correct. Next to me is someone who has one of the most progressive tax systems for individuals under his control. That's very leveling. We don't have that for companies. The burden-sharing that my neighbour and his predecessor managed to achieve in this cabinet period for companies has not often been shown before. So there is no question that this cabinet suggests that it would not consider the burden and income position of households important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u48	This ODE because that's what we're talking about here is an extra tax on the energy bill. The cabinet keeps saying: we have made that fair. Well, households now pay power 68 times as much as the biggest consumers per kilowatt hour. Sixty-eight times as many! Next year, it'll be 75 times as much. 75 times as much as the biggest consumers. You can't sell that as a fair one, can you? Households are increasingly unable to do so at all. This will also reduce support for the energy transition in this group of households. The minister says if we make jobs disappear, that's the axe at the root of the support. Yeah, but isn't energy poverty just like that? Where is the recognition of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u49	It is tempting to look only at the energy account within purchasing power and only at the ODE within the energy account, but that is totally inadequate. The ODE is 10% or less of the average energy bill. Again, the total account for a household with average consumption is not higher but lower compared to 15 years ago. It's gonna stay that way. It is still important to look at this as a whole. The Netherlands is not a country that should be ashamed of income differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u50	Last year I made a solid point of the ODE in the third disc, for greenhouse horticulture companies, for factories and so on. Nothing could really be done about it, because no euro could be missed from that pot. But that 680 million could've come out. This year I come up with the same thing and there is no way to miss out on another euro. Last year I thought: it may be true, but I find it very difficult. But now I'm having a lot of trouble believing that. That's a comment. I'll see if I can get a reaction. Then my question. There is now a compensation of two times EUR 25 million. There is another plan for this, at least for the vote. My question is whether the plan is 99% ready. Is it coming? What's the effect of those two times 25 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u51	I'll have a look at what percentage that plan is ready for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u52	I like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u53	Then I shall proceed immediately with Mr Stoffer. He has tabled an amendment, on item No. 8, which I know is still ahead of me. I'm looking at him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u54	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u55	He says, "Let's reduce the ODE rates on the third disk." Well, look, he doesn't believe that the latest estimate says that the budget is sufficient, but it doesn't go over. This relieves him of the obligation to provide alternative budgets, at least in his world. The information I have on the latest estimates says that that would mean finding budgets elsewhere. This means that I must discourage this amendment. Then there is the amended Beckerman/Alkaya amendment to item No. 7. That's what we were just talking about. This would mean that business does not pay two thirds but about 90% of the total ODE, in the quick calculation we have devoted to it. This does not seem to me to be conducive to employment in many cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u56	That is the amendment to item No. 9 years old. The amendment you have just commented on has changed its number.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u57	Then something must have changed about the content, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u58	No, we just do that to confuse you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u59	That's what worked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u60	The amendment in part No. 11, which I just asked for, however, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u61	It's been revoked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u62	Yeah, that's gone again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u63	That's what I was about to say. But then we still have the amendment to item No. 16 on which I have yet to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u64	Yes, from Mr Van Raan. He's waiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u65	I don't have that yet. In the extreme case, you will receive a more friendly response from File Letter. Then there is the amendment to item No. 39. It's about the Zip code rose scheme. We didn't make a very clear deal about who does. I understand Secretary of State Filly's handling this. Clear. Very good. Then round it up. The rounded number is 0.04, but the unrounded number is 0.04449. That's rounded to 0.04. It'll go up next year. The plan for the two times 25 million is halfway through. That plan was announced in September. It's been a while. They're working hard on that. It should be there next month. So we're about halfway there. Mr Van Raan actually wants a flat charge of €30 per tonne, I say in his direction. Now I have just described how for some industries, which are also popular in this Chamber, a levy of €10 per tonne would work, and €30 is three times as bad. I have to do the amendment in part No. 16 Therefore, advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u66	It's not really surprising that it's being dissuaded. The Minister I agree, as economists among themselves perhaps, that a flat tax is the best solution and that we are going there as well. Let us not forget that this Minister has said: we really need to do more faster. The CO levy proposed by the government is a tax which may only become clear in 2024 if it has worked. In other words, that leaves us in uncertainty for four years to come. Let us also remember that this minister represents a government to which the court has said three times: you must do more to achieve the goals. Looks like they won't be made. I understand he's not telling you, but the reasoning is actually insufficient. Because what does De Nederlandsche Bank, for example, say? It says that a CO-tax of €50 for real everyone may indeed be annoying for some companies, but not for the economy. So what the Minister is showing here is yet another very, very cynical way of keeping a particular industry over its head.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u67	The climate reviews are not done by De Nederlandsche Bank in the Netherlands, but by the Planbureau voor de Leefenvironment and the Planbureau voor de Leefenvironment will calculate a price that will succeed in the opinion of the person who is talking about it and the person who is talking about it is the PBL. It seems to me that that is a final guarantee that it will be possible to do so in the near future. Furthermore, I will finish for a moment, because then Mr Van Raan may also disagree with me on another point. We agree that economists would argue for a uniform taxation across sectors. I did not commend the word "flat" because the flat character has no added value for the incentive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u68	Let's talk about the calculation of what that sector should achieve. That could be right. The 14.3 megatons that the sector should reach could be right. The point is, even if you look out there, it's too little to reach the overall goal. What the Minister is doing is saying that a low target might be achieved in 2024, who knows. And if it doesn't make it, then we're farther away from home and we need to intervene even harder. The Minister is so committed to his climate policy and not only to himself, but also to future generations in particular. That really needs to be said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u69	I want to talk Mr Van Raan out of it anyway. This doesn't have to be a point of contention. We agree that due to all kinds of exogenous factors and perhaps later in the passing on of the measures that have not yet been passed on, the task may well be higher than it is now. According to the rhythm of the Climate Act, we should therefore also raise this target. That is what we need to do with additional measures. This could mean that the price path or any other measure would have to be tightened up. That is precisely what the PBL is doing. Then it should be good, because in the event of a higher goal, we will be legally forced to pursue that higher goal. I want to be a little less gloomy here than Mr Van Raan. Yes, Chairman, this was my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u70	Thank you. We wish you a good night. Then we're gonna listen to the Home Secretary. The floor is up to her. I see that Secretary of State, Mr Filipino, first takes the floor. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With regard to time, I will focus on the questions raised regarding the differentiation of transfer tax. Mr Stoffer asked whether there was any consultation with the notary sector. The answer is yes. I thought I said this in the WHO last week. He asked whether we would like to discuss further, because we are now working on the proposal. The answer is that we will, with pleasure. Mr Omtzigt asked whether it would be possible to process a number of examples of his useful practical examples to a checklist on the website. I think we had a useful discussion about this in the WHO, in which Mr Omtzigt mentioned a number of cases. We responded in writing, and Mr Omtzigt said that he could not start much with that answer. We have now given a further answer. I actually summarized it by stating that what you are advocating is to make sure that there is less room and that the interpretations are all about the same. That could very well be done with such a checklist on the website of the Tax Administration. So I'd like to say yes to that. I think it's a good idea. Mr Van Haga asks: why not make a gesture with regard to the financing capacity, such as a state guarantee for 90% of the purchase price for start-ups up to €400,000? On the contrary, this proposal does not provide for guarantees or loans, but for a lower price because the transfer tax is reduced. That's another cure. I told Mr Van Haga we have the NHG. It's already working to a certain height in its direction. Mr Van Haga also asked: can the Secretary of State indicate when this law will be reviewed? The answer to this is that we will evaluate the law in 2024 and the results will be available in 2025. There was another amendment, but first let me answer the questions. I am still here all evening, so I can answer questions later, including about amendments. Mr Krol asked us to do so and others asked us to do so a few times in the debate in the WHO: why did you opt for an age limit and not just for the starter? At that time, I explained in detail and in detail that we simply cannot do that in the implementation. It's kind of like the question we're about to get about box 3: start tomorrow with real returns. I can say yes to that, but then I make a commitment that is empty. So I can't agree to that. We will work with what can be done by the best method. Then it has to be as it can be, according to Jan the King. We'll do it with an age limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u72	We really liked that the cabinet announced: we're going to help start-ups and tax investors more, because it's really hard for start-ups to get a good, affordable home. That sounded really good. Then it turned out that the cabinet said: no, wait a minute, we're not gonna help all starters at all; we're gonna help starters up to 35. What does that mean? When you're 36 or 37, you don't get a tax advantage. If you're younger, you'll get it. This means that people of 36, 37, 38 will not only be competing with those investors, but also with people who are two or three years younger and can offer them higher because they do not have to pay the transfer tax themselves. And there's no way it's gonna be any different. Just say, we don't do it, we don't discriminate in age. Put a line on it, say up to $400,000. Fine! But why stick to that age discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u73	I can give the answer in another way, but it's still about the same. I said in the WHO: the Tax Administration simply cannot do this. It's an impossible proposal to select if it's someone's first home, a starter. We can do this. With the age limit of 35 years, we take about 85% of the starters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u74	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u75	Yes, but my proposal is also feasible. Namely: say you don't have to pay a transfer tax if the house costs less than €400,000. Then you don't have to discriminate at an age. The same applies to 36 and 37 for all ages. That is also feasible. My simple question is: if you are going to look for ways in which your law is enforceable, why stick to that age discrimination when the Chamber has already offered alternatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u76	We do not consider this to be age discrimination. We consider this to be an approach to the concept of "starter." That is what we are approaching with an age limit. That is what the proposal is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u77	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u78	I thought I had the questions on my property. The Minister will discuss the relationship with the housing corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u79	Mr. Van Haga comes out of a box like a devil. He'll have the floor for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u80	Of course, I have to come all the way from behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u81	It's a long walk, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u82	It's a long walk. Maybe it'll get better soon. I have another question, namely whether the deadline for calculating the transfer tax can be extended from six to twelve years. Has that been taken or has that been a consideration at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u83	I don't think that's been a consideration. I can come back to it in second term. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u84	Fine, thank you. A change of scenery. The minister's gonna put on a mask. She's setting a good example. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u85	I wonder who will answer the questions about the anbistatus of housing corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u86	I will. The mask can be taken off, thank God. I have seen that this is not the case in another country. That seems to me very difficult to discuss. Mr. Chairman. I will continue where Mr Vijlbrief handed me over, namely with the transfer tax. Perhaps I should say in advance that I am pleased that I have the impression that there is very broad support in the Chamber to differentiate the transfer tax. That's what we do to push the starters. That can really help; we're really reaching people. That's what I heard Mrs Beckerman say. I would therefore like to focus on the questions that have been raised about housing corporations, about residential cooperatives and about that border. I will also give an opinion to the amendments on these subjects. I have heard very well what the Chamber has said in the legislative and plenary debates on the position of corporations and on the possibilities of looking at what can be done for these housing corporations. Mr Omtzigt already came to the interrupting microphone with his question about anbistatus. We have used the last few days well to see what can and can't be done. You saw that in our answers. The same applies to the cap on the home value limit. This has now led the cabinet to say that it is wise to include a housing value limit of €400,000, so that the measure can be even more targeted. I'm just gonna walk by the questions. Mr Stoffer asked whether the benefits of the bill outweigh the disadvantages. Of course, there can always be discussion about the €400,000 cap, for example. We are convinced that this is a good proposal, because we think it is important to improve the position of start-ups in the housing market, including vis-à-vis investors. That's a development we've seen on the housing market. So the answer is yes, even if you could have the discussion that there will be a hard limit and that someone who buys a house of €390,000 will get a discount, while a starter who is just above that border will have to pay that tax. That's right. By definition, introducing a border means that it is arbitrary. At this limit of €400,000, at least 94% of starters under 35 years of age are helped. That's why I think it serves its purpose. You want to reach starters and generally buy them with the market developments that have been there. We have looked closely where the border is and whether that is sufficient for starters in the Randstad. We reach a very large part of the start-ups with this measure. Mr Stoffer had also asked why the new proposal, i.e. the €400,000 limit, starts on 1 April. What happens between January 1st and April 1st was his question. We believe that some starters may have anticipated the announcement of the cabinet. We do not want them to be surprised by this interim adjustment as of 1 January during the examination of the bill. The date of 1 April gives sufficient clarity to all starters who are now looking. Between 1 January and 1 April there is no house value limit of €400,000, but as from 1 April. That is because we believe that people who have anticipated it should not suddenly be surprised by that change. I would now like to comment on questions raised by Mrs Beckerman, Mr Nijboer and others, why the housing corporations do not simply exclude or otherwise compensate more widely. I think that's the question that's been asked. Basically, corporations are active as landlords in the housing market. There are also other landlords active on the housing market, both in the regulated rent and in the unregulated rent. Therefore, the housing corporations are seen by Brussels as an undertaking and therefore the State aid rules apply. So we have corporations and they get state aid in order to carry out their people's housing tasks. Such State aid is bound by limits that are also determined by European State aid frameworks. Both in the form in which we do so and in the amount, that aid should not go beyond the net cost to cover the implementation of these SGEIs, this service of general economic interest, plus a reasonable return. The specific exception of corporations would be a selective measure which would favour certain entrepreneurs. It is therefore subject to the State aid rules. Such a measure requires the consent and approval of the European Commission. As we know, this is a long journey. But it is also uncertain, because you run the risk of being refused approval. State aid rules serve an objective. Nor do we want companies in other countries in Europe to be able to compete on the European market with the support of the government. In itself, we need those rules. This concerns the question of whether this also applies to housing companies. In drawing up the Tax Plan, attention has been paid to corporations and to the budgetary effects of the plan. We also discussed this in the legislative consultation. I want to try to respond differently to the concerns that exist. That is what the Chamber has really insisted on. That is why we have said that we are going to clarify the existing exemption for the transfer of tasks. We can do that now. We're also going to look at a broader interpretation. That is an investigation into this exemption. Mr. Chairman. Then the cooperatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u87	This is the Tax Plan and I simply want to clarify under what conditions housing corporations can transfer homes. We can't say we're still investigating that. I just want clarity now on what terms that happens. What's that anbi look like? I mentioned earlier that at the moment you can only transfer to the anbi if you do so at cost minus depreciation, but that you can only transfer a property under tax rules at market value. A house built 30 years ago is often built for €30,000 or €40,000. Write-down leaves €25,000. But an apartment of for example Vestia is worth €150,000 on the market. I'm just saying with these amounts, but you understand that you're not getting them together in any way at the moment. That's just tax impossible. We're asking this for the third time now. There were very specific bottlenecks that should be corrected, otherwise they should not be transferred from one housing corporation to another. It applies to Vestia, but also to other corporations that say, for example, that they accidentally have a few homes in another village and that they want to transfer them to another corporation, because that is good for maintenance and so on. You understand that sometimes you just want to be active in one village or one city. Under what conditions is this gonna work? And can we be certain about that now? Because it has to start on 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u88	Maybe just... I wasn't quite done answering. I'm gonna try to go a little deeper into that anbistatus for the task transfer. That's what this is about. The cabinet has said: at least we can apply the anbistatus in the transfer of tasks. We can use this to help the housing corporations that are in the process of restructuring, because that is what we are talking about...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u89	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u90	I'm just trying to tell the whole story. That may not be exactly the answer to Mr Omtzigt's question, but that is what the cabinet has proposed. It is quite clear that the existing application will be completed, so that corporations in reorganisation will be included. Mrs. Beckerman specifically asked about Vestia. Does Vestia fall under that? Yes. Other housing corporations in rehabilitation would also be included, as would other anbi's, since it would, of course, apply not only to housing corporations, but to all anbi's in which there is a transfer of tasks. It's not specific; it's all about it. Can it be wider? Mr Omtzigt also asked that question. I don't know yet. In itself, I think there are opportunities to do that, and that's why we're going to investigate. But we don't know exactly yet. The announcement made by the cabinet is that we're going to see it. We're gonna investigate all his aspects, including financial. I wasn't looking all the way to the left for nothing. It has a lot of consequences. But we have shown the willingness, also because of the questions that Mr Omtzigt has asked about this, to investigate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u91	I'd like to make a few comments. We have already put this question in writing. It just comes back: it can be done via the anbistatus. We say it cannot be done via an anbistatus. It doesn't seem to work, and we're going to investigate now. I want a firm commitment that it will be possible by 1 January and that otherwise another measure will be taken. You are proposing legislation worth hundreds of millions here. Then you must know how he is explained. I'm really asking the government to clarify things. If necessary, we'll do it now at dinner break. Then we'll suspend for an hour. I want to be clear about how these housing corporations can transfer. We're not gonna settle that after we vote here, are we? Just not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u92	The Chamber is about its own order. That's not up to me. What I do care about is what the cabinet has proposed. We all know the Vestia case when transferring corporations, but there are other housing corporations that have exactly the same anbistatus to say that we can indeed exclude this transfer. That is also settled on 1 January. But if the Chamber asks us to do more, we can't settle that on January 1st. That's what we said. We can agree with the Chamber that we will investigate that and come back to it. It's just not more complicated than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u93	It's kind of complicated, actually. We want a certain certainty of how laws are applied. Doesn't it make sense for the Chamber to ask for it? This is also the third time that the Chamber has asked for it. That is why the government should not be so surprised that we are surprised that it is being investigated. That investigation should have been carried out before this was presented as a tax plan, I think. You just have to know how it's applied, don't you? So we want to know whether an ordinary healthy housing corporation can say to another healthy housing corporation: we want to transfer a number of houses as a job transfer and then not pay an 8% tax; can that be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u94	My answer to that is that we cannot do that now, however much I would like to say: yes, of course, we can do that immediately. That's my answer. I'd really like to say something else. But my commitment is that the cabinet has already blacked out that we are doing so when it comes to reorganisations and thus job transfer. But of course I know very well that regular job transfers can take place between corporations. I would also like to say now that it can be excluded, but I can't. The only thing I can promise and pledge to the Chamber, perhaps a misunderstanding has arisen from the documents about the transfer of tasks. I cannot already commit that the same can be done in the case of regular transfer of tasks between corporations. This is also seen in the case of corporations and not wider than that. I'm not gonna repeat it. We'll take it with us in the investigation. The Chamber will therefore receive much more information on this matter. Perhaps a different balance can be made from the cabinet in due course, but I cannot do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u95	Here it threatens to avenge that we are treating nine laws, because of course it has an impact on tenants and housing corporations. I have a simple question. In this law there is a burden increase for housing corporations of 34 million. That's an estimate. What part of the 34 million do they not have to pay with this cabinet proposal? Then we have a bit of a picture of what tenants and corporations get to choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u96	I can see if I can clarify that. At Vestia, I know exactly. Then we should make an assessment of the remaining corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u97	I would certainly appreciate that. I have a follow-up question. We are now being very complicated about the anbistatus and the delineation. And if Vestia is really kept completely underwater by the supervisor, it applies to a transfer. Why isn't there just generic compensation? That is what I proposed in Amendment No 1. For Mr Omtzigt, 8% is the pain threshold, I believe. 8.1% was no longer to be done. That's how it was solved. Under this legislation, you would have arranged proper compensation for those corporations. You could just do that through a landlord's tax, and then you'd be done with it. Well, at least you'd have compensated for that sector. Why didn't the cabinet choose that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u98	The cabinet, as we have, of course, discussed in detail in the legislative consultation, has looked at all the pluses and minuses for corporations. We'll talk about the rent reduction later, no matter where we give compensation. We also looked at the effects of the discounts on the rental charge. In all these pluses and minuses, we see that the housing corporations do not go backwards and progress in the long term. I therefore believe that we have taken sufficient account of the investment capacity of the corporations and their financial position. Mr Nijboer also knows that their financial position for now is valid for the whole and not for individual corporations, but that in the long run is not enough. It's gonna play a little later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u99	I do not agree with the Minister on that. I think you should see by law what the effect is. It's a law to help start-ups and target investors, and housing corporations are included in this. On the macro picture, the Minister announced: we are going to make more sustainable, we are going to build additional houses and there is extra money for that. That is what they are taking away from this measure. So these houses don't come around anymore. Then there's another minus at the bottom of the line this year. Yes, Mr. Chairman, it's too technical. That leaves nothing at the bottom of the line this year. There's even a minus. The next few years will be a small plus, but this additional housing and sustainability will no longer be achieved by the introduction of this transfer tax. I don't think that's right. It is a measure to help start-ups and to make investors pay more. Those aren't housing corporations. According to the law, they are technically. So they should be properly compensated within this law. My question is again: why is that not done? That's very reasonable, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u100	You think that's reasonable. I'm not saying I think it's unreasonable. But I don't think it's unreasonable for the cabinet to look at all the pluses and minuses. We have one tax plan and at one time, on Princess Day, we looked at how it's going to work out for the corporations in the next year. We've got all the pluses and minuses involved. Maybe we disagree on that point. I do not think what Mr Nijboer says is unreasonable either, but I think we have done so to a large extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u101	This is, of course, the third, or indeed the fourth time we have debated this. It's a very strange law. It is a law to deal with investors and their disadvantages are now passed on to social tenants. You can see that a large part of the Chamber has a problem with that, can't you? It's nice that the cabinet now says, "For Vestia, we'll solve it." I certainly hope that we will get that guarantee, because those tenants have been the victims of what the top of that corporation has done for ten years. Many more examples have been cited, for example the shrinking regions. In the shrinking regions there is a lack of capacity, there is a risk of fretting and corporations are taking on a greater social role. That's what we've all agreed to here, too. Can the cabinet at least provide a guarantee for that group as well? Is there any solution in the picture?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u102	There are different situations conceivable. We have now solved it for the remodeling cases among the corporations. It can also play a role in the situation Mr Omtzigt just outlined. It could also be in the situation that Mrs Beckerman just outlined. Have we solved all that yet? No, but there are different ways to approach that. You cannot exclude the housing corporations in their entirety from applying the rate. It can't be. I think I just explained that in detail. There will be a nice housing fund of 450 million euros. Working in shrinking areas or in old neighbourhoods in cities in the Netherlands could also lead to the purchase of certain assets. It may be that 8% will have to be paid for. You have to take that into account in the design of your project. So there are all kinds of ways to look at that. I just can't promise the total generic exception right now. I heard the room, of course. I also understand that there is a search for ways in which it can be done, but it cannot be done via the route of total exclusion from housing corporations. We can do it on the anbiroute for the clean-up. We're going to investigate the cases that have been mentioned to see what can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u103	But I think this is an acidic answer, which is now given in part here. Corporations, and with them the tenants, have been squeezed out for a long time. Additional taxation was introduced during the previous crisis. That was not for buyers, not for free sector tenants, no, it was for the poorest group of tenants that Holland knows: the social tenants. The social tenants have paid 10 billion so far. The consequences are higher rents, poorer maintenance and less construction. Now these two laws add two more taxes. The cabinet presented a housing fund of 450 million and that is beautiful. That is very nice, also for the shrinking areas. But now the cabinet says in a subtlety: yes, but that money is meant to pay higher taxes. 450 million has been promised to the tenants, tenants who have already paid, paid, paid, paid, paid. And now there's just another part being skimmed. That money just goes back to cabinet, because it hasn't been solved. That's acid, isn't it? Then you finally announce to come up with something like a people's housing fund and then it just goes to you!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u104	No, I didn't say that. I have said that we have a great deal of attention to the restructuring of these old neighbourhoods. The people who live there, we're going to give them a better environment. We're going to give them a safer environment and the prospect of a better home. Mrs Beckerman and I know very well what these neighbourhoods look like and how tough these areas are. Should it be necessary to include a piece of private property, that the municipality there should do something, that the housing corporation there should do something and that other parties there should do something, then we will do it. So I'm not saying we're gonna get that money back. I'm not saying that at all, because we're going to spend that money to make it happen. At the moment it is not happening enough and I am therefore incredibly pleased with that fund. I gave it as an example, because there are also examples of projects that are already there. Of course, those congregations will report to me. They will also report to the Chamber and say that our project may be affected. But of course there is a lot in such a project and then you just have to act as a responsible government. As a municipality, as a province and as a housing corporation, you count on it and then you see what you come up with. I will say quite frankly to them: I cannot already guarantee that we can help you on that point. As much as the Chamber wants to, it can't be. But I'm willing to investigate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u105	There are two things at stake here. One is the question of how the housing corporations operate and the other is the question of whether a housing corporation is really a company, in the sense that there should be state aid. I know many EU Member States where the government simply owns and rents houses, and that is not seen as state aid. And then it doesn't matter if they're municipal authorities or the national government. I would therefore like the Minister to explain a little more about whether these housing companies are really about state aid. In the WHO we also talked about it, but what about the residential cooperatives? I'm asking because there's the element of "self-living" in that. This would also fulfil the conditions mentioned here for the transfer tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u106	I'm still coming to the cooperatives; that's where I was actually about to go. Housing corporations in the Netherlands receive state aid because they have the task of providing housing. They have a social task, a social task. For example, they receive secured loans through the WSW. They get land discounts from municipalities when they start building. That is all state aid, and it is allowed, because that is how we agreed. I do not know exactly which municipalities Mr Van Otterloo refers to in which other countries, but that is how we organised it in the Netherlands. By the way, most countries are very jealous of the way we organized it, of our major housing corporations and of our large social stock. Mr Van Otterloo's second question was about housing cooperatives. I see you looking, Mr. Chairman, but he really asked a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u107	Take your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u108	I agree with him on that. He also stated in the WHO that the exclusion of cooperatives is not so much a problem of state aid but of... We have looked closely at this, but it is a very difficult group to define. That would make you an exception that would be unfocused. An amendment has also been tabled on this subject and questions have also been raised by the Christian Union. There are cooperatives with a very social policy. There, for example, new tenants can join and income limits are set. I think that these are the cooperatives that Mr Van Otterloo is mainly talking about. But there are also cooperatives that rent at a very high rent and build for high incomes. These cooperatives ask for a high capital injection when joining the association and that association then lends loans to the cooperatives through its members. They're co-operatives, too. If you were to define that whole group, you would probably also have a group that you wouldn't want to take with you, and you might lure yourself into thinking that a lot would be worked through that route. There is a route that we think could be followed. By the way, many of these cooperatives are building new ones. Of course, this doesn't play there. But that cooperatives, for example, take ownership of housing corporations, is a route that we think is passable. We'd like to try it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u109	If I understand correctly, the Minister says: this is a route that we can take to avoid paying 8%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u110	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u111	Good. Mr Omtzigt is still here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u112	The Minister himself, together with the Secretary of State, writes to the Chamber in the note following the report, the first time the Chamber asked questions about this Tax Plan: "In specific cases, where an ANBI transfers real estate to another ANBI in the context of a task transfer, there is an exemption from transfer tax. Most housing corporations have an ANBI status and may be eligible for it." By the way, they all applied for it in 2012. "However, a number of strict regulatory requirements must be met. If this is not possible, the Minister of BZK will investigate other alternatives." We are now in favour of voting. It makes sense, then, for the Chamber to ask: can certain groups benefit from an exemption or not? This is a perfectly normal and legitimate question in taxation. How can we obtain some clarity before the vote as to whether they are covered and how an alternative will be developed before 1 January?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u113	I do not know what the misunderstanding is between Mr Omtzigt and me. For me, it is clear that the cabinet is proposing to say: through the transfer of tasks, through the anbistatus................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We know about this: job transfer, anbi, can be exempted. I have the impression that Mr Omtzigt is asking for more than the transfer of tasks. Yeah? Then we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u114	No. The core of this is the transfer of tasks of housing corporations that are not in restructuring...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u115	Mr Filipino's suggestion is to put this on paper. That seems to me to be the best solution to this. I honestly see the other Members... I thought it was already in the pieces. If it's not good enough in the pieces, we're going to write it down again: what exactly changes compared to the current situation? Is it absolutely clear what a job transfer is, and how it no longer stands in the way of its outcome?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u116	But if the government here says that all the job transfers between housing corporations are covered, as long as those housing corporations have an anbi status I hear the minister just say that we are there. Then I have no further questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u117	I also heard Mr Omtzigt mention the word 'transfer of tasks'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u118	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u119	Then we're here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u120	So there's a job transfer; cleanup doesn't matter. Then they don't have to pay the 8%. That's the guarantee I get here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u121	No, it's not. I'd love to, but I don't. It must therefore be a task transfer in the context of this reorganisation. I can't just promise a job transfer right now that it's possible. I can promise you we're gonna look into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u122	But then you just used the wrong words. Then you really should read your own pieces. I'm just saying how I feel here. I'm gonna go hard on the Minister. She was absent from the first WHO. I asked those questions, and then it seemed like they weren't answered. Now we ask about the core, and that is: a task transfer where there is no reorganisation operation. That question has already been asked once or five times. There can be no misunderstanding about that, can there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u123	But I've answered that once or twice. You cannot blame me for not being present at your WHO when I am in another Chamber debate, in the other Chamber, across the street. I've really answered the question a lot. By the way, we also went with you. You asked: take a good look at it. We did. That was the question last week: can this be done via the anbistatus? We have answered what is possible, and that is: in the case of a task transfer. This applies to housing corporations in the case of renovations. There we go. For the rest, I do not rule out the possibility, but we need to examine it carefully. And that also requires a new decision. Well, that's not before now. What is in store is the commitment to investigate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u124	And when would we get an answer to that investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u125	That is, of course, a legitimate question from Mr Omtzigt. I'll see when we can expect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u126	Very good. Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u127	This is, of course, also a very difficult point for us. We have also asked for four debates on this for a long time. Mr Omtzigt also said yesterday that these state aid rules may not be so restrictive at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u128	I'll get to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u129	Okay, because that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u130	Yeah, sure. That was a question. I just need to look at my papers for a second, or I might forget other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u131	Did the minister just give you a letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u132	Yeah, I promised a letter. Just in case. Although I think we figured it out, I'll give you a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u133	The colleague of GroenLinks. At this point or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u134	Yeah, at this point, because I'm getting confused myself. Mr Omtzigt's example was actually crystal clear. From one village to another village, from one city to another city, the minister said it can't be done. After that, I thought she answered that she could. So basically the question in the letter that we get, where it is not possible, is in any cases, even with the Housing Fund, also when refurbishing neighborhoods, the transfer of tasks between different corporations, and what is the problem behind it. The question is not just when the investigation is finished. How complicated is this investigation, anyway? If you have those cases in mind, shouldn't you be able to come up with a solution soon?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u135	I understand Mr Snels says that. It's true, too. But the simple answer is now: it can only be done with clean-up and job transfer; point. The difficult answer is: in what cases should you do something and what should you then arrange for it. That is why the cabinet would like to examine it and come back to it and, if necessary, make a new weighting in it. But it is really very complicated to see in which cases it plays and by which route you should do it. That is why we have said: we are doing what can be done. Two words are crucial: the word "job transfer" and also the word "cleaning" in the context of housing corporations. As regards the transfer of tasks, it is broader, as is the case with the anbis, but for a very large part of the housing corporations, we are only talking about housing corporations, of course, because which anbis all have houses... so it is true in the context of the reorganisation. I can promise you that now. As far as the rest is concerned, you will receive an answer from me when we expect the initial insights into that investigation to be completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u136	We're getting a letter. Then I would also like to read in that letter exactly what the bottlenecks are with the other cases, because I want to have a bit of an idea of how complicated that research is. As of January 1st, we will, I think, have the housing corporations standing on our doorstep and standing on your doorstep, which means that the projects cannot continue. I think it is important to avoid this as much as possible. So let's see how fast that can be, how big the bottlenecks are and how easy we can solve them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u137	Yes, but now the letter has a slightly different character. I'm fine with that. Then I will also go into the letter to identify the situations we could imagine that we just want to find out exactly and want to know about. That's good. Then that's what we'll do. Then there is the decision and the exemption decision. Mr Omtzigt spoke yesterday about the 2009 SGEI decisions and the 2012 SGEI exemption decision. His question was whether it was possible to allow more forms of justified State aid on the basis of the 2012 exemption decision. The 2012 SGEI exemption decision referred to by Mr Omtzig concerns a framework where State aid does not need to be notified to the European Commission. That decision existed since 2005 and was renewed in 2012. The substantive test in the case of State aid and in the case of authorised or unauthorised State aid has not been modified in substance by that 2012 exemption decision. So the area created by the decision only looks at the cases in which it should or should not be reported to the European Commission. There is no more room for what is or is not allowed. Mr Omtzigt had a follow-up question on this and actually also a suggestion for if we are going to work with different packages to solve the problems of housing corporations for the longer term and perhaps for the next cabinet. I have already said in the previous debate that it is better to look for routes in which that State aid problem does not arise, but his suggestion was to apply for a new SGEI decision for the measures which might be state aid. The question was if I could promise that. It's true that I'm going to work out different measures. It is also true that I said that we really have to solve the financial problems of housing corporations in the long term. Of course, the choices are for a next cabinet, a next coalition. But that's exactly where the crux is in his proposal. It is difficult for me to go to Brussels now to discuss a new SGEI decision following measures that I do not know, because it still has to be decided. So I'm afraid I can't realize that time savings. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps more specifically Mr Bruins, who also asked the anbis about the churches and the church leaders. If they are among the investors, the question was. If churches are not an owner-inhabitant, they will be subject to the high rate, because of course there are specific conditions attached to them. If churches use an exemption in a task transfer, of course they can. If a property is part of that task transfer, then it will apply if the other conditions are met. Mr Omtzigt asked to comment on the comments made by Aedes. They sent a letter or a paper following the Tax Plan. Part of it is indeed also about the transfer tax. Aedes asks for the exemption of the SGEI housing and also addresses the other points that Mr Omtzigt also made: the transfer between corporations and the housing with a purchase obligation. I will go into more detail later on about the buying-in obligation, as Mr Omtzigt has asked further questions about this. I think we have dealt with the other points in the letter in detail. Well, that's gonna come back. Let's see. We've had the cooperatives. This one, too. Well, I guess I'll just go ahead with the buy-in obligation. Mr Omtzigt's question was somewhat broader. He also asked about starters buying corporate housing. It is, of course, logical that the starter who buys a corporation house should be exempted if he falls under the category 35-min. Other buyers who are going to live in a house themselves will receive the 2% rate. That's the advantage of the starters. Nothing really changes for the other buyers. Indeed, it is true that the purchase of a property by a corporation or another provider will be subject to the standard rate of 8%. In practice, there are a lot of different constructions of these buying-in obligations. They are offered by corporations, but also by developers and individuals. We may know the example of Koopgarant. By the way, a corporation is often involved in this. The provider then gives a discount of up to 30%, but then benefits from the value development. That's the thought behind it. In these structures, the transfer tax is only paid for that part that would be bought back at any time. If you made an exception to that, just focused on corporations, then we'll get back to the same problem as before. Then that is also state aid. I cannot rule out the fact that the higher transfer tax would prevent the corporation from offering housing through this construction, but then the homes would not disappear. They just don't go to starters or other buyers. They just stay available in the form of social rent. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to go through the amendments on this part and then deal with the questions on the rent reduction. The first amendment has No. 10. I hope the numbering is correct. That is the Beckerman/Leijten amendment. This calls for an exemption for housing corporations from the transfer tax for all purchases of housing. We are going to examine and clarify this, but a specific exemption is an aid measure. It is therefore not possible to introduce it, at least after we have obtained our assent. In the worst case scenario, I would also like to mention this: the European Commission's assessment would lead to the repayment of the State aid granted to the corporations in this case. In short, we must discourage this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u138	I have a question about this, which I asked in the WHO. I do not know how this is done in the case of housing, but in the case of fiscal measures, you can check things informally with the European Commission in advance. The minister said she didn't. What is it going to do if one of these amendments is adopted by a large majority of the House, for example? Does it then go to the European Commission with the message: this is what the Chamber wants? We understand that it may be state aid, but that is never black and white. It is about an old decision and new policy, a new measure. It would be nice as a Chamber to know that the cabinet is going to defend this with full energy and passion in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u139	The order of things is, of course, this one. We have the debate now. I say to the amendments that the cabinet can and does not accept, and why. If we see a risk of state aid or make our own assessment that it is not possible, then it is fair to outline those risks. That is why I did so in response to Mrs Beckerman's amendment. The risk is that you are going to do something, that it will then take a very long time before you are finally told that it is not possible and that you have to recover. I don't think that's gonna do anybody any good. But the order of things is this one. First you ask me to do something. Then I give my appreciation. Then you're gonna vote. If amendments are adopted, they will be there and will have to be discussed with the European Commission. I'm not gonna avoid that. I just want to give the House the honest warning that my expectations on that point are very low. That was the amendment in part No. 10. I am therefore in favour of the Nijboer amendment on item No. 12 on acquisitions of residential cooperatives under the reduced rate. I shall come to Amendment No 1 later. 21, but the amendment as drafted by Mr Nijboer is not feasible for the Tax Administration, because the service, see the definition in Article 18.a., cannot distinguish residential cooperatives from other groups which also call themselves such. I have just explained in more detail what different forms these residential cooperatives can take, so I must advise against the amendment. The amendment in part No. 13 also belongs to Mr Nijboer. This concerns the acquisition of housing by housing corporations below the reduced rate in exchange for increasing the standard rate by 0.2%. We have already discussed the anbi exemption for the transfer of tasks. We have also talked about the overall reduction in the burden on housing corporations. I said that this exception would be an aid measure. Furthermore, the same reasoning I have just followed applies to Mrs Beckerman. But since there is also this increase in the rate, I would also like to point out that this affects not only the professional investors but everyone who buys a house for a child, a holiday home, etc. We actually thought that 8% was a nice fare and not more. I shall now turn to the Nijboer/Smeulders amendment No. 14. They propose to introduce a housing value limit of €400,000 per April. We are grateful to the authors for this amendment, because we believe that the exemption will be more effective and that it will solve a not exactly intended effect, namely that very wealthy start-ups would also receive this exemption. We are happy to give the House its opinion on this. The Beckerman/Leijten amendment to part No. 15 is about the age limit. Mr Vijlbrief has just given the argument why we really want to reach the starter and how we do it through the route of age. We are also concerned that due to the expiry of the age limit the costs would increase considerably and the legislative proposal would be less effective because it would also be used by streamers. We do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u140	I do object, however, to the accusation that our amendment would make use of the start-up loan. No, with the law submitted by the cabinet, about as many streamers are eligible if starters are eligible. This is the reversed world! The cabinet wanted to make a law for starters, but it didn't work. It then chose an arbitrary border, but do not blame the SP for ensuring that streamers are eligible for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u141	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u142	I don't blame the SP anyway. The SP has tabled an amendment to delete the age limit of 35 years. Mr Vijlbrief has just said that we want to reach the starters. It's hard to define them and it's hard to get a hold of them. The only way we can do that is through the age limit. With this we reach a very large part of the starters. By raising the age limit you reach fewer and fewer starters and more and more streamers. But that's not a reproach.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u143	But if my amendment is not adopted, then a 34-year-old influx is more likely than a 36-year-old starter, because that 34-year-old influxer keeps his money in check and can possibly offer higher. That's what the Council of State says. That could drive up house prices. That means that a 36-year-old with a lower income is still at the back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u144	We never said it was perfect for everyone. We said it was arbitrary. Somewhere you choose a line. You always do that when you choose a limit: also the limit of €400,000 and the age limit. I cannot rule out the possibility that the cases outlined by Mrs Beckerman will arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u145	The Minister did mention the amendment to item No. 13, but I would just like to be told explicitly that this is also not recommended. That is Mr Nijboer's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u146	Yes, that is indeed dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u147	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u148	The same goes for the amendment on item No. 15. I'd just had that. I am therefore in favour of Amendment No 2. 16. That's Mrs. Beckerman's, too. It wishes to exempt acquisitions of residential cooperatives. The same applies to this matter as I said to Mr Nijboer. This is in this form impossible for the Tax Administration, because according to Article 18a, the Tax Administration cannot distinguish itself from other groups that call themselves such. However, I would like to refer to the amendment on item No. 21, which will be here in a minute. Mr Van Otterloo's amendment No 17 concerns the acquisition of housing corporations and residential cooperatives under the reduced rate. I have two different reasonings. Housing corporations are subject to State aid and residential cooperatives are subject to the definition and feasibility of the Tax Administration. So I'm gonna have to dissuade it. The amendment in part No. Mr Stoffer's 19 proposes the introduction of a soft housing value limit, i.e. a foot exemption. That is in itself a sympathetic thought, but then we are going to help the starters who do not necessarily need it, the more powerful starters. We are not in favour of this. The foot exemption also creates less budgetary space than the threshold exemption we advocate. I don't recommend the amendment. Then there is the amendment to item No. 21. There are Bruins, Dik-Faber and Van Weyenberg underneath. This concerns the acquisition of residential cooperatives from housing corporations under the reduced rate. This amendment seems to be feasible. I just said it in the debate with Mr Van Otterloo. The Tax Administration can do this, because they can follow the approval of BZK for such acquisitions. In that case, the housing cooperative must meet those conditions. This will guarantee the social dimension. We think that is very important. This is possible because these income limits are then applied. New tenants can join, there is no leakage of assets in this proposal and it is in line with the purpose of the bill. We leave this amendment to the House. The last amendment to this part, in part No. 22, Van Otterloo. That looks at acquisitions of housing corporations... No, I've already had it. It looks just like the other one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u149	It's already been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u150	Yeah, but I got it double. I have it here as number 22, but I guess that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u151	He's been dissuaded twice, Mr. Van Otterloo. That's dramatic when that happens to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u152	Mr President, I see Mr Stoffer, so I thought I would wait a moment before I continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u153	However, I would like to say a few words about the appreciation of my amendment to item No. 19. I thought I heard the Minister say that would not be covered by the budget. But we passed it on and in 2021 it leads to a yield of 34 million and structuralally even of 11 million. So there can be no budgetary reason to discourage this. It also solves a lot of practical problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u154	My main argument was not the budgetary argument. My main argument is: which starters do we really want to help? We would like to help those starters who really need support. That is why we have chosen the design that lies ahead. Because if you go from a threshold exemption to a foot exemption, you help all starters. That is also sympathetic in itself; I am not doing anything about it. But they're also people who don't necessarily need it. That is really the main reason for dissuading this motion, and that is the main reason for the cabinet's proposal. I have indeed said that a foot exemption creates less budgetary space than a threshold exemption. That is also a fact, although I do not deny that it would be there in the event that that limit is at €325,000; but it is less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u155	I'm looking at it differently, but I have to deal with it. So it's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u156	That's life. Were those the contributions of the ministers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u157	No, I'm afraid not, Mr. Chairman. 'Cause I still have the whole bill to deal with one-time rent reduction. There is also a question I would like to put between these two subjects. That was Mr Omtzigt's question about the property tax on sports clubs. I'll start with that and then I'll come to the rent cut. For this, we need to go back in time. Mr Omtzigt knows the history of this very well. It concerns an amendment submitted to the 2019 Tax Plan. I had previously made an agreement with a group member of Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van der Molen, to investigate the possibilities for municipalities to tax their SGIs, social interest organisations, against the ICI rate for homes or accommodations of these SGIs entirely from the ICI. That was the agreement I made with Mr Van der Molen. In another debate, the debate on the Tax Plan, Mr Omtzigt tabled an amendment, which was quickly dissuaded by the former Secretary of State. Shortly afterwards, from the VNG and also from the scientific community, there were several publications that put a lot of doubts about the direction chosen. They wondered whether there was actually a sound legal basis. They claimed that the proposed tariff differentiation in municipal implementation practice would lead to a variety of questions which would also be difficult to answer, and that this would give rise to proceedings before the tax courts which would cost time and money and create a lot of extra work for the judiciary. So that's what happened after that. With the CDA, I think it is important for the municipalities to be able to support the sports associations. That's certainly true now. That's what we thought two years ago, but now all the way. And so far, most municipalities also support the sports associations, namely by giving subsidies. Before the corona crisis broke out, I was in consultation with the VNG on the possibilities for municipalities to use a lower ICI rate and the additional implementation problem. Due to the outbreak of the corona crisis, the municipalities, but in all honesty also a bit of the Empire, the priorities are really different. We've been two years. If there are any municipalities that would like to make use of the possibility of applying the ICI rate for homes for sports accommodation, I am of course willing to discuss this further. However, it is important that the municipalities indicate what they want and how they want to achieve it in practice. This is quite complex and the municipalities themselves have indicated this, insofar as they are interested in applying it. But we are going to resume this discussion, also because Mr Omtzigt has asked for it, so that I can inform your Chamber further about it in the spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u158	If the Minister is going to respond to a commitment that I believe she made during the WHO in the direction of Mr Omtzigt, then I would also like to remind her of the motion on the ozb versus solar panels, on the issue of solar panels. I think I had a commitment to that, too. That's allowed at the end of the block; that's fine with me. But I would like to take a step in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u159	Then let's make a deal. Then I hope that someone who listens to me will now send me a piece about that that I have read, but I don't have it at hand here. Then I'll go to the one-time rent cut for lower-income tenants. I am really glad that the Chamber also says that it is nice that we can take this step. I know some people have called it an ugly bill. Well, then it is an ugly duckling, but I think it serves a good purpose, namely to give tenants with low income housing corporations and a relatively high rent the right to rent reduction. There are 260,000 tenants who make an average net improvement of €40 per month. This really helps people, people who often have payment risks. We really give some air to tenants. There have been some questions about it. I should like to begin with the question put by Mr Van Weyenberg. He actually said very basically: can we look at everything with this bill? Of course, you always pay a great deal of attention to the feasibility of the proposals before you, including in the case of the rent reduction. It's really about people who pay too much rent compared to their income. It is not only about the tenants who have been in this situation for a long time, but also about tenants who have recently had a drop in their income or who may have had to deal with it next year. This raises questions about how the tenant can be achieved and cared for as best as possible, and if the use of the Tax Administration and the corporations is necessary, however this can be properly implemented. I also want to protect the tenant's legal position and prevent abuse. All this has led to a number of choices made by the cabinet. First, the housing corporations at the Tax Administration can check which tenants fall low in the income category. So those are the people who have been on low incomes for a long time. This has improved the feasibility for the corporations, I think, and tenants are indeed reached and cared for. Secondly, also those tenants with a recent income drop give the possibility of rent reduction cannot go through the route of the Tax Administration. We have chosen a simple concept of income so that we do not have too much discussion about it. We know that the situations in which these tenants are located can be very different. Therefore, there may be a situation in which there is uncertainty as to the implementation or assessment. The proposal therefore provides for the use of the Rent Commission in a dispute so that the tenant's legal position can be monitored. I shall now turn to the questions that have been asked about the Rent Committee in response to the delays there. Finally, it is proposed to allow corporations to request income from the Tax Administration for 2022 in order to determine whether there is a temporary or a more structural decline in income. In doing so, we want to do justice to the temporaryity of the problem and also to prevent abuse. I am truly aware that these choices naturally have consequences for the tenant, for the ability of the tenant. I have tried as well as possible to make an assessment of this by setting out the framework as clearly as possible in the proposal and thus clarifying at the front what is actually expected of who. I would not like the six-month group, to name them all, to be unable to appeal to the rent reduction, because that simply means that tenants who have suffered from the corona crisis would not be able to get that rent reduction, and I would very much like to help that group. I will ensure that, after entry into force with the Rent Commission and the housing corporations, we keep our finger on the pulse. If there are any uncertainties, we will, of course, gradually clarify them. I'm gonna keep going on that six-month group. Mrs. Lodders asked: how does that work? She also had a question about what I just sketched about 2024 and look back. The majority of the eligible tenants are those in which it can simply be established on the basis of the objective data of the 2019 Tax Administration. But the tenants who are in the group now of an income drop, make a statement themselves and that statement contains the actual composition of the household. The tenant provides documents for this purpose that underpin the income per relevant resident. To keep it simple, gross income is used and deductions are excluded. Holiday money and a thirteenth month are allocated. We know the method, because the corporations use it to allocate it appropriately. If a housing corporation considers that the data are incorrect or incomplete, the corporation may decide not to grant the rent reduction. The corporations have that experience and are used to assessing income data in the appropriate allocation. The tenant is free to start a procedure with the Rent Committee and the Rent Committee could ask for additional information to arrive at a ruling. For example, you can think of a statement from an accountant or extracts from the BRP to determine the household size and that kind of thing. Mrs. Lodders specifically inquired about what happens when tenants have used incorrect information. That's what the correction mechanism was designed for. Should it appear that the income has increased again in 2022, which can be established on the basis of objective data, the rent can be returned to the old level from that point on. That's the proposal. I note that the group involved, the group that will apply for it itself, is expected to be small. This proposal for the correction mechanism is really a small group. I have noticed that several Members in the Chamber have expressed concern about the lack of an execution test associated with that correction mechanism and its further implementation. That's true. We have said, also in the letter of amendment, that we could and would like to examine alternatives to that implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u160	I hear what the Minister says and I hear her say that it's probably a small group. Is it then an idea? I have also heard colleagues about the implementation test.... to send that correction mechanism and that execution test to the Chamber at a later date, possibly in an existing Tax Measures Act.......................................................................................................................................................................................... to send............... to send. to send............................ The explanation is clear to me, but at the same time I wonder what exactly we are talking about. This may also help colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u161	Thank you, I say to Mrs Lodders, because I think that could indeed be a solution, also because there is still time. Of course, it does not have to enter into force for a number of years, and that would give us the opportunity to look at the execution test and to judge it on the basis of that test, which of course the Chamber wants most, and to examine possible alternatives carefully, and to come back to that at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u162	Then it might be wise for us to hear in second or third terms when we can expect that to happen and in what law, so that we can make a note of it. I think this is the right route.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u163	Fine. Then it is the route that we will get it out of the proposal for now and come back to it later. I think that Mr Vijlbrief will be able to say exactly which parts are to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u164	I'm happy about that. I had asked for it, like some other colleagues, and I assume that we will see another amendment this evening which withdraws the letter of amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u165	I think Van Weyenberg is right to put it that way. That's what we're gonna do, and we're gonna technically make sure we do it nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u166	Thank you, because this is also something we are asking for. I'm just trying to be very specific. We're withdrawing the 2024 mechanism. We allow the mechanism to exist that you can prove with six months of income data that you have an income drop in 2021 or 2022, but we are not going to increase automatically in 2024 and will come back to that later. Is that what I understand correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u167	Yeah, that's exactly the point. That is the so-called correction mechanism. This can be seen from the group which can indeed now apply for the rent reduction. But we're going to look very carefully. The execution key that is in front of you will also be added. We are also going to look at other ways, knowing that it will not have to go into it for a number of years. After all, it was 2024 in which they would look back at 2022. We have also promised to inform you when and in what context it would be logical to come back with a proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u168	Thank you. A number of questions have not been answered. I would add that they have become irrelevant at the moment. Those were questions about changing household composition: if you have a divorce or you move in together, or one of the partners dies or one of the children exceeds the age limit so that the income will count, or if there are fellow residents. There can be anything in the rent supplement, and rightly so. They must be taken into account in such a performance test. Let me say it now for the Acts, so that, when we come back to it, we have those answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u169	I think that's a good idea, too. I would have liked to say that, of course, the changed family composition between next year and 2024 is being taken into account. I hear Mr Omtzigt saying that he wants to know more precisely. I think it would be wise to involve that in the information we are about to collect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u170	Okay, that sounds really nice. I have one more thing to say about the previous point, but I shall do so at the very last moment, about those sports associations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u171	Let me get this straight. The cabinet is therefore going to look at how, in what form, it takes an execution test. And that's what's in the new proposal. It's not just an execution test on what's going on. There is a broader view of whether this is the right way, whether it is not that people can get under the bus completely, whether we need to shape things differently. It's actually going to be completely recalibrated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u172	Yes, including the fact that the proposal that will be presented has an execution test. Because that was not the case at the moment in a hurry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u173	I think this is a very good commitment, but the overtaking increase in rentals remains above the market. Wouldn't there be a variant that was also chosen with the €400,000? Then the cabinet says: we may have raised expectations, so the people who buy a property until 1 April, whose transfer is also before 1 April, are among the aroused expectations. Wouldn't that be possible with this? We have to vote tomorrow. The cabinet is very late with that information, with that execution test. Then it says: our mistake, so until April 1, this doesn't apply, no matter what happens. Equal monks, equal to the other proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u174	I'm really trying to understand Mrs. Beckerman. Nobody gets hurt by this, I'll say. The proposal, I hear three Members of Parliament now say, is to ensure that this group, the six-month group, the people who are now dealing with income losses, can count on the rent reduction. The only thing that is now being taken out of the proposal is how you can assess in 2024 whether or not that income reduction has settled. That's what we do. We're still not deciding how we're gonna do it or how we're gonna do it. We're all gonna come back to that. I don't think the parallel is going to go all the way. If you're eligible for the rent reduction, you can just get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u175	That is true and that is not true, because we know that a lot of tenants are worried after all the stories about the Tax Office, about the fees, but also that a lot of tenants, even if they are entitled to them, do not go to their corporation. Even if they're entitled to rent reduction because they're worried because they're not coming out of that system. In this case they also have to worry a bit, because if something goes wrong, even beyond their fault, it may be possible to make a catch-up increase in 2024. That is why I say: the cabinet is not in order. We have to vote tomorrow. Without that then for a few months out, so we give the tenants some more security. Then it will still be properly checked, because it will be checked as it is now with appropriate allocation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u176	Maybe we'll talk past each other, but I don't think there's a problem at all. The population of tenants in housing corporations who have long been under-income in relation to the rent will automatically receive an offer from their housing corporations. That's exactly what we're dealing with under this law. So we will reach the approximately 260,000 tenants on our own. The housing corporations have to do that. That's what your Chamber decides. We must reach the people for whom it is short-lived. That is what we must make a great deal of effort to do now. In my view, the proposal to take some time for the correction mechanism that Mrs Lodder did, and that has just been embraced by the others, does not change anything. Moreover, in the cabinet's proposal on the correction mechanism, it was not the case that we wanted to increase the rent retroactively. We were supposed to bring it back to level, so to the old level. But let me not talk about things that we don't decide about right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u177	I'll have some by now. I'd like to suspend for dinner and a little dinner. I don't know if the Minister can come to an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u178	Oh, yeah. You'll be sitting on a sign before 7:15, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u179	Delicious. I'm gonna order. Mr. Ommzigt recommends deer, I hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u180	Me too. A human needs to eat, I agree with you. The rent cut and the Rent Commission. That is a very important point. Mr Omtzigt made that point and so did others. That Rent Commission should be able to handle this. I am very aware of the fact that the Rent Committee has a lot of work to do. What did we agree to? The Rent Committee is going to use additional staff to deal with these disputes that might arise. The assessment system is similar to another assessment carried out by the Rent Committee, namely that of the income-dependent rent increase. With extra capacity she can handle this task, the Rent Committee tells me. It is very important that it happens, so we solve it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u181	There is a very crucial difference between these two procedures. The income-dependent rent increase is based on annual income. I have a lot of criticism of the Tax Administration, but the annual income can be delivered to the housing corporation by 99% of the people with a simple form. Then one has the annual income. There is therefore no discussion at the rental committees about this, at most about the family composition. What makes the discussion so difficult in the current proposal? That's the six-month income. That's what we're all wondering how you're going to do administratively. In the answers to the parliamentary questions it says that an entrepreneur should only go to his accountant once more. Does he have to pay a few hundred euros to the accountant to add up and subtract everything in order to get a few hundred euros of rent reduction? Can you imagine? The employee, retired or someone who has an irregular income, because he works at a temporary employment agency one time and has a benefit because he is unemployed and has an UWV strip: those are the people who need a rent reduction, because they are equally unemployed or because they work in the hospitality industry with irregular hours and the catering industry is in a lockdown. Those are the people you're all gonna get. So they all come with a list of four weeks from one employer, a form from another employer who pays out a month and also a holiday supplement that is on. That is the tragedy that is about to be put into effect. And then there's no test of what the six-month income is. Did you specifically discuss with the rental committees that they can handle that part, namely the determination of income in six months' time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u182	I just said it's similar to... I didn't say it's identical to it. Moreover, for housing corporations it is a way of working which they say they do know. That's what I just argued. Because they also work with appropriate assignments, where tenants sometimes also support their income in this way, they think they can. And as I said, it's a relatively small part of the whole group that matters. For these reasons, both the housing corporations and the rental committees think that they can work with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u183	I don't think it's a relatively small group. I did not see in the scheme what is happening with the Tozo and all kinds of other temporary schemes and whether they are part of the concept of income. We've seen part of the concept of income. For example, if you get holiday money, you have to count half. That's fair. We understand why that happens, because it can be exactly and precisely not in that six months, so that you count half is the right solution. Some regulations are therefore well developed, but I have not yet seen any support measures in them. Contrary to the Minister, my group believes that there may be a storm over the next year and a half on that arrangement. We hope not; we hope that this will be the last round of support. But there are a lot of people who are on temporary contracts and who have an income drop to whom this gives air. That is what it is meant for, but unfortunately these are not exceptions. If only we had exceptions, we would not have to make those packages with the Minister for Social Affairs. Can the housing corporations and the rental committees handle thousands of cases? And will the Minister please, together with the Secretary of State for Finance, give some clarification on those examples I just gave and on the six-month concept of income? This does not exist when appropriate allocation is made. When allocated appropriately, the annual statement is generally used. The annual report can be obtained from a public administration. That's best to do: you can just see what the tax return is. It's also reliable, because if you cheated on it, then you're incredibly dangerous. But if you accidentally don't show a paycheck, because you've also worked at another temp agency... Yeah, you can do that, of course. It's possible. That's why I asked: don't you want them to have access to the files of the UWV? I hardly dare to say it with Mr Alkaya around, but you would really like them to have a closer look. So my question is: can they handle it? Is that six-month definition of yours clear enough for Aedes and the tenancy committees to say it's workable?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u184	On that last point, the answer is yes. They both say it's workable. I certainly don't want to be too optimistic about the numbers. I hope that everyone who needs it will appeal to the possibility of cutting rent, because that is what we are doing. We are doing it precisely for those people who have recently been caught up in the crisis. It may be a low percentage on the total number of tenants, but then it can still be about many people. We hope not, but it could, of course. What do you have to do? The composition of the household must be clear and can be substantiated. The combined gross income of household residents, with the exception of resident children under 27 years of age, shall not exceed half of the applicable income limit of appropriate allocation. It's part of the link. It's part of the link. The tenant then provides the income data of the residents concerned. Of course, it is easier for people on paid employment or those on benefits than forzzp'ers or for people who earn their money in other ways, but there is evidence for that too. They will also simply be accepted. The housing corporations do not indicate that they find it difficult to assess this. We have agreed that if it turns out that it is difficult or if it leads to a rejection, the tenant can go to the Rent Committee and that the Rent Committee may then ask the tenant for further specifications in order to be able to better assess it. That's how we agreed it should work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u185	I understand this has been agreed, but imagine the housing corporation saying: I think you just had another job with you. The housing corporation has no access whatsoever to any information to determine whether that person has had another employment with a temporary employment agency or has been temporarily working somewhere that has a paycheck. What's not there, he can't know. So you can have really nasty discussions, where the tenant says he hasn't had any income in a given month and the woco says they don't believe that. How do you solve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u186	How do you solve it? Just like housing corporations do more often: assess what the person applying for the rent reduction presents. As simple as possible. We're going to investigate whether you can also look back and assess it, if at some point the data are all on the table with the Tax Administration. I agree with Mr Omtzigt: you cannot ask everything at that time if you want to keep it a little executable. It's a risk that someone won't give something up at the time. Yeah, I admit that. We need to see this in practice with the best ways available and without making it too complicated and completely closed at the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u187	I understand that it's seen in practice. Then I simply ask for a commitment that we will receive an interim report in mid 2021 or shortly after the summer of 2021 in which you or your successor have consulted with the housing corporations and that we will receive a letter shortly after the summer recess whether there are problems in implementation or not. That is the only way we can keep a finger on the wrist in these six months, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u188	I think that's very wise. I want to monitor that anyway. Let us also agree that the Chamber will be informed of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u189	The Minister mentioned a simple concept of income. You cannot get the financial spokesmen more alert than you can by referring to that concept. People divorce, become unemployed, get alimony or not. There have even been new arrangements. Mr Omtzigt was right to ask for this. I'd still like to ask on the Rent Committee. You're gonna switch it on if you don't make it clear. When's that gonna be okay? The waiting lists are now sometimes two years old. They're taking advantage of this housing shortage. It already is. So he gets an extra job, a rather complicated figure again. When is that gonna be in order so people can get their rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u190	Mr Nijboer and I also had a debate on this last Monday. This extra task we're just going to solve with extra resources and extra people. It will not be at the expense of the backlogs that exist. I have also outlined that there are delays. The Rent Committee itself has now made an action plan to ensure that these delays are overcome. Of course, it also depends on what's going on. Is it something for which the Rent Commission should also come into the house or is it a dispute about, for example, the rent level that you can in principle solve from behind a desk or from behind a computer? That action plan is there and the Rent Committee is now, I think, despite the corona problem, which is also very much affecting them, working very hard to eliminate these delays or at least to return them to a normal work stock. 10,000 is not a normal working stock. 3,000 to 4,000 is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u191	My question was when it's in order. This law will enter into force on 1 January. Then there's the extra job. There are 10,000 people waiting now. I get emails from people who have been waiting for a year and a half. They pay way too much rent. They're angry. I'd like to have a little sense of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u192	I understand that frustration. I share that too, especially when it comes to the frustration of the tenants. I can say that this additional task for the Rent Committee is at least solved with additional people and therefore not at the expense of the other and that the Rent Committee is doing everything it can to deal with these delays. Mr President, I see you looking. I'm really gonna try to finish very quickly. Mrs Lodders asked if the Tax Office would have completed the point of contact for the income-dependent rent reduction on 1 January. The answer to that is: yes, they can. This is because they use the existing point of contact for income-dependent rent increases. I just said that to Mr Omtzigt. They say they can do this along that route. It also helps, of course, that the Tax Administration has to do with the housing corporations. That is a clear number of customers. There are, of course, 260,000 tenants behind this, but the cooperation between the Tax Administration and the approximately 300 housing corporations allows us to open this window so quickly. I come to the amendments. Mr Smeulders had an amendment to extend the rent reduction for low-income tenants to private landlords. Unfortunately. If only, I'd almost say. I'm just saying to Mr. Snels. That's where we're dealing with ownership. Private landlords do not have a landlord's job, in tile counting to the corporations. A large part of them also do not pay a landlord's tax. They have less than 50 homes. So you can't pay them for the rent cut either. That's the other side of it. There are 300 housing corporations, but there are tens of thousands of private landlords, so the Tax Administration cannot carry out that data exchange. For all kinds of reasons, therefore, I must advise against this amendment. The amendment in part No. 13 belongs to Mrs. Beckerman. This does not concern rent increase in 2021 for all tenants. This is a generic measure, just like the rent freeze for all tenants. We did not choose that. We have opted for specific and customization. Mrs Beckerman had already expected me to advise against the amendment. The same applies to Mrs Beckerman's next amendment, of which I have no number. That amendment reverses the increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u193	That is the amendment to item No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u194	Is that the amendment to item No. 14? Okay. I have to discourage that amendment with the same argument, Mr President. I only have the answer to Mrs Lodder on the solar panels. This was about the implementation of a motion which she tabled together with Van Weyenberg. That motion called for the release of solar panels from ozb and for further research on how to prevent the discouragement of sustainability by higher local taxes in the future. That is, of course, important. I am also busy with the built environment and its sustainability. Following the motion in the section Building blocks for a better tax system in the report Revision municipal tax area, we focus on the introduction and effects of an exemption from IZB for solar panels, or wider for sustainability measures. That report was sent to your Chamber by the Secretary of State on 18 May last. I can tell you that on page 56, we are discussing such an exemption, but I think Mrs Lodders already knows that. We have said, in the footsteps of that reconnaissance, that we must also see if we can do it. So it is extremely difficult, but we are still going into a political administrative path to see if we can do it. It is our intention to inform the Court of Justice of this before the end of this year if it is possible. We are very aware of the motion and the urgency that Mrs Lodder expresses in relation to the implementation of this motion. I cannot really anticipate the content, but it has a lot of attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u195	I have now heard that the Minister will return to this matter before the end of the year. I read that building block note. I just think that's too far away, because before you actually gave your hands and feet to that in another period, we'll be a year or two further. That's just a shame, because we want that sustainability together. I therefore hope for a positive letter from this Minister and I believe that this Minister is also a figurehead of sustainability and sustainability in construction. So I'm counting on her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u196	Thank you very much for that. The commitment is indeed planned for the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u197	If this is the end of the Minister, at least of her input, I thank her for that. Let's not go too far. Do I understand that there is another question from Mr Omtzigt on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u198	My question is about the point that was in between. That was the sports accommodation. That amendment, of course, was also in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the time. I understand that during the corona period less can be done there, but the amendment was adopted here two years ago. We have asked several times for consultations with the VNG. I would ask the Minister to see if there can be such consultation that the municipalities that want to apply it can apply it next year. Can there be an idea of how it could be applied before 30 November, when there is a legislative consultation on Sport here? After two years, it would be nice if the amendment could be applied once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u199	I have a lot of consultation with the VNG. There has also been a great deal of consultation with the VNG. I would like to point out, however, that there were a great deal of concerns from the VNG in applying this possibility. Therefore, I had originally preferred to first investigate the ways in which you can best accommodate this wish. In the end, that amendment was adopted, and that is your right. This possibility exists, but it is precisely with the VNG that this led, in fact, to the conclusion that its application had a lot of hooks and eyes. Again, I'm going through with it. If municipalities want to do it, we're gonna see how that's supposed to be done. I only mentioned corona because the conversation that was going on got a little low. We can take that back. I am also quite prepared to see whether we can then give further information to the Chamber, at least within the period referred to by Mr Omtzigt. But I don't know if it's really gonna happen or if municipalities are gonna apply it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u200	I am glad to see that in the next two and a half weeks we can hear how it is applied. I would like to say that I did not make this amendment myself, because I had asked for official assistance from the government. It is always rather annoying, as a Member of Parliament, to be confronted with the remark that the amendment is not feasible. I'd rather have heard that at an earlier stage. I'm being held responsible for this right now, and I don't like that very much. I am looking for a solution and if that is a letter of amendment, then it becomes a letter of amendment. At the moment it is true that a sports association pays triple ozb for the same accommodation as a normal household. That means that village houses that are not owned by the municipality of Ozb are getting quite a lot of ozb-attacks in my province that really scares you. They sometimes lose half their turnover on that! And I'm not even talking about skating clubs that... The Secretary of State looks so surprised that I can even see through his mouth cover! Skating associations sometimes just have the bad luck that they still have to pay a lot of ozb, because they have their own field for the ice rink. If it doesn't freeze for two or three years in a row, then... I know I'm getting the whole left-wing Chamber over me right now, because it has to do with CO, but if it just doesn't freeze for a second, it's really annoying for such a skating association. It'll just sink through its hooves because of the ozb, or rather, through the ice. Those ozb-attacks are hugely high and sometimes even three times as high as when someone just has a field to make a pony run. We want to be able to draw that straight, that's all it says here! So it's an encouragement to the Secretary of State, because... If you have a private ice rink, you only pay a third of what an ice rink association pays. The same applies to a private swimming pool and so it is not quite comfortable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u201	And don't we all have a private ice rink, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u202	If only we all had a private ice rink, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u203	That'll be fun for the tax exemption, but no...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u204	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u205	Mr President, very briefly. Technical assistance is, of course, always provided. It is not only granted if there is also a positive opinion. I'd love to talk to the VNG, but I... Perhaps it is crazy, but I would like to invite Mr Omtzigt to speak with me then, so that Mr Omtzigt can hear both sides, including the VNG side. It is not for nothing that I have listed all the objections that the UNG has against them. Mr Omtzigt asks for further information and a stand-by, and I will give him that of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u206	Fine, very good. I thank the Minister for being here. She's excused and we wish her a good night. I shall suspend dinner until 8.15 p.m., but not before Mr Van Weyenberg gassed us on a very nice announcement on the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u207	That is going to be disappointing, Mr President, after this warm encouragement. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Maar dank u wel.]] Mr President, I will take a small run-up if I may. We have the votes on this law tomorrow. We do this exceptionally already on Thursday, so that the First Chamber can take it into consideration on Tuesday. Behind the Tax Plan is always a very tight timetable. Now, of course, it is possible that some of the amendments will be put to the vote tomorrow. Then the use is that we will then vote again on Tuesday, but that may lead to the timeline getting in the tighter. At the same time, of course, Mr Dijkhoff's motion, which I believe has been adopted by the whole Chamber, is not to surprise each other in corona time. We do not want people to be here if they do not have to vote. I have done a round and I think I have a fairly broad feeling of support in the Chamber to agree that we should immediately vote jointly and severally on these amendments if the votes were to end tomorrow. We can then vote on the law tomorrow afternoon. It is an unusual order inspired by the timetable of the First Chamber, but I hope to express the feeling of a large part of the Chamber. But I'd like to hear that from them themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u208	Well, I do object to it. We almost took the Dijkhoff motion in Chambers. There are about all the group leaders under it, and this is the third time that this motion has been violated in what is it? Two or three weeks. That is all well and good, but that leaves nothing to be done in practice. Maybe this is a coalition thingy, but if we have adopted a motion, with almost unanimous votes, then... I just grabbed that one. The motion has a debinding condition, because it talks about'may be waived by mutual agreement'. Now the coalition says we're violating that motion. Then there will be little left of the Dijkhoff motion, I'll give you a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u209	Mr. Chairman. I'm announcing it on purpose today, because, of course, I don't want to do it tomorrow on my own. Then you'd be absolutely right. I did not speak at all on behalf of the coalition, because I also asked a number of opposition parties if they agreed. I'm making this proposal. I'll see if there's broad support for that. It is precisely because I attach great importance to this motion that I am now putting forward the order proposal, so that, if we do so, we will also give our fellow Members ample time to anticipate it. I'm also doing it on purpose not tomorrow, but today, so that we can plan it a day in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u210	Mr Alkaya on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u211	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Weyenberg has indeed asked nicely. I did not express my support, precisely for the reason you state. The motion indicates: if you indicate a day in advance that you want to vote jointly and severally, you can. But I do not hear Mr Van Weyenberg say that he wants to vote jointly and severally on all these laws. He says: in case the votes stop, I would like to invite the entire Chamber, because perhaps we should vote by roll call. That's another deviation from the deal we made with all of us. I do not think that is a good thing, because it is an important issue, namely the corona measures. If there is a majority in favour, we will, of course, call on the SP Group and then we will be good here in case, but it does not seem desirable to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u212	No. That motion was passed because of corona. If we all decide to do this now, it seems that there is a majority in favour of this, then we're just going to do it. Then all the political group secretaries will be joining their political groups, and so tomorrow 150 Members of Parliament will be coming to The Hague, in the middle of the corona time. I'm okay with it, but it's not in line with the motion, I'll just turn it in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u213	Mr. Chairman. I think it's all a bit of a bummer, actually. I actually think Mr Van Weyenberg's proposal is practical. He announces that well in advance, so let's just do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u214	Fine. Others? Mr. Snels, perhaps? Then this is an order debate, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u215	It's an order debate, Mr. Chairman. Of course, the Dijkhoff motion could not have foreseen all the special circumstances, not even this one, I think. So I thought it was nice of Mr Van Weyenberg to take a lap. As far as my group is concerned, that is fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u216	Mr. Chairman. I used the time to check with my colleagues. As far as we're concerned, it's no problem to do that tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u217	Mr Stoffer still, and then we're going to come to a conclusion and eat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u218	Let's get some food. As far as we're concerned, it's not a problem. We're just here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u219	Fine. Then we will vote tomorrow, with the possibility that the votes will cease. In that case, we shall vote by roll call. That has been established. Thank you. I'm gonna suspend until 8:15 and then we're gonna listen to both Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u220	We'll talk more about the Tax Plan. I give the floor to the Secretary of State. I would just like to say that I am very concerned about the time, because we really have to get out at 11 p.m. and we also have a VAO Nertsen before that, and I am afraid we will be able to welcome quite a few speakers. So we really have to do it in the time before that. I give the floor to the Secretary of State and I hope he can do it point-by-point like his colleague. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u221	Mr President, I am happy to do so. Thank you. I thank all Members for the questions. I would like to begin by saying a few words about a point that many Members have made, namely the amount of documents and the way in which we are preparing them. I agree with the Members that this was very much. That's what I said in the WHO. I have promised in the WHO that I will make a letter, for my successor but also for the Chamber, in which I will make a number of suggestions as to how this could be improved. One of the things could be that we put the decision-making moment around the burdens earlier in the year. But that also has disadvantages, because then we have the purchasing power picture less precisely. So I will gladly let you know in the form of a letter. This is, among other things, in response to Mr Snels' comment at an earlier stage. Which brings me to the Job-related Investment Discount, the BIK. There's no point in repeating the whole WHO, so I just thought I'd stop by and see the questions. Seemed like the best thing to do. I shall start with a question from Mr Van Haga. Mr Van Haga asked if the BIK is good compared to other options. I believe that Mr Van Haga was not present at the WHO where we discussed the CPB document very extensively. So the answer is simply: yes, we have compared that very extensively. Mrs. Lodders asked me if I could do my best to open the BIK window earlier and then communicate in a targeted way. I would like to make a commitment to both requests. Yeah, I'll do my best to open it up early. That's what I thought I'd said before, too. And I'll be happy to go on the farm too, as far as Corona allows it right now. Mr Omtzigt asked which enforcement tools RVO has to carry out checks and why no disinvestment addition was used. A disinvestment scheme is a fairly complicated way of actually achieving the same thing as we are now achieving in the BIK. We have quite strict requirements: you have to buy a new business resource and you actually have to put it into use within six months of purchase. A disinvestment scheme is actually a more complicated way of achieving the same goal. It will be controlled by the RVO; Mr Omtzig asked for it. I think I answered those questions with that. I would like to make one more point. That has to do with the BIK and abroad, with Europe. We discussed earlier in a WHO that the NOB asks whether the ultimate goal of the cabinet, increasing investment in the Netherlands, is to maintain European law. My firm conviction is that this is the case. It is a crisis instrument and it is temporary and that is why it is my firm conviction. But to be sure, I will also notify and notify this scheme in Brussels, so that it does not have to lead to any further problems. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to Mr Van Weyenberg, who asks me whether I can confirm that the budget is actually two times two billion. Yeah, I can confirm that. Mr Van Weyenberg knows that we have put in place a rather robust mechanism to evaluate in the course of next year how much we have used up. Then we will adjust the percentages of the VIK accordingly. Mr Van Weyenberg also asks if the Chamber is informed of the risk of something going wrong in the way things are being worked out or implemented. The answer is obvious: yes. Finally, I have a question from Mr Bruins. Would it be possible to accept company funds in addition to the lower limit of €1,500 per asset if an audit report shows that the asset is written off? Unfortunately, I have to say no to that. That's gonna be too complex in the execution. He's already difficult to implement. I see Mr Bruins nodding; he probably expected the answer. So I have to say no to that question. Mr. Chairman. That's what I wanted to say after all the conversations we had about the Job-related Investment Discount. That brings me, if there are no questions, to the COOVID-19 crisis approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u222	I think the Nijboer has another question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u223	You can say, for the sake of time, that we have had all the arguments. As Mr Mulder of the PVV said, you can also throw it into the sea. I say you can throw it in the ditch. It's not effective. We don't have to repeat that ten times. I would like to ask the pressing question as to why the Secretary of State is persisting in the inclusion of this BIK in the Tax Plan, while the Council of State says that this is not chic. The Chamber has asked for it several times. You've already filed nine laws, why not a tenth law? Then the Chamber can vote as it pleases. Now it has become a type of tying, of which the PvdA Group is not so well served. So why not file that law separately? You can do that tomorrow, because it's very easy to get rid of him. Then I also promise to support the Secretary of State's tax plan. I'd be happy to. But that BIK is of course a huge bone in the throat of many parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u224	That doesn't apply to all parties, that they look at it like that. I have tried to convince you in the WHO that I have not succeeded in ensuring that the BIK is part of the crisis measures, and we have all included them in the Tax Plan. That's what I said back then. I'm going to repeat that one more time. That was the intention of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u225	That is a short and concise answer, but not a convincing one. Nine laws have been passed. The tenant measure is also a crisis measure. It's in a separate bill. I just talked to Minister Ollongren about that. The Council of State also points out this. The Secretary of State must acknowledge that. He also says: this is not in line with the Hoekstra motion. He's just pointing that out. So I think we can see that this is not the usual procedure, not the desirable one. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State again if he's willing to break the law. He's got support on the right. That BIK comes through then. Then we can just vote as we would like to vote, namely against the BIK. The PvdA Group is ready to vote in favour of the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u226	We've had this discussion before. I repeat my answer. We have consciously taken this into account in the crisis part of the Tax Plan itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u227	I had another question about the effects of the reduction of the tax on profits and the reduction of the tax on labour, and whether they were compared to the effects of the BIK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u228	I answered that question. Mr Van Haga wasn't in by then. That's okay, because we started early. I'd love to do that again. We discussed very extensively in the WHO the analysis of the Central Planning Bureau, in which all this was done. That document was probably sent to the Chamber a few weeks ago. This shows that the BIK for private investment is the most effective means of investing it: about 7.5 billion extra investment over four or five years, for 4 billion incentives. You can also compare it to other criteria, such as employment. Then it scores slightly less than a labour cost reduction. That's in line with what you'd expect in advance. So that's what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u229	Have the results for certain sectors been taken into account or is it a generic approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u230	It's a macro calculation from the Central Planning Bureau. The Central Planbureau also looked at empirical literature in the same document. There comes that notion that has also been put forward by many Members of Parliament, that more targeting of the BIK on small and medium-sized enterprises makes the BIK more effective. It's from a literature study at the CPB.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u231	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u232	I would like to continue on the point made by Mr Nijboer, namely that the Job-related Investment Discount is now being offered to the Chamber as a tying-up. The Secretary of State says that we have chosen to do so; for practical reasons, we have put the aid measures in the Tax Plan. Can we conclude that such a practical argument by the Secretary of State is more important than support in the Chamber on the left? Because I can go a long way with Mr Nijboer. If the BIK gets out of the Tax Plan, it is very likely that my group will be able to support the Tax Plan. So what is more important to the Secretary of State: support on the left side of the Chamber or say "we made that choice and that's how we do it"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u233	I hope for support from the left side of the Chamber, including for the BIK. That's the cabinet's proposal. The cabinet's proposal is a tax plan in which the IJK is in. The BIK is a replacement, as Mr Alkaya knows, of the previous Vpb reduction. We've talked a lot about the effects of that. I really hope for support for the Tax Plan including the BIK. I am repeating myself now, but that's okay, because that's why we are having this debate: I think the ICI is an effective crisis measure to stimulate business investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u234	We do not need to repeat ourselves, because we have reached a conclusion. We've had that debate. We have exchanged arguments for and against, and I share my conclusion here. The Socialist Party will not support this so-called Job-related Investment Discount. If it is offered separately to the House of Representatives, then we can most probably support the rest of the tax plans. That is in line with what Mr Nijboer says. I ask the Secretary of State once again: does the argument that it has been decided that all such measures have been included in the Tax Plan, that this has been a practical choice of the cabinet, make it more difficult for the government than support on the left side of the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u235	I regret that Mr Alkaya cannot support the Tax Plan including the BIK. That's what's going on here. That's what's on the table here. There's not a tax plan there without BIK. The cabinet has chosen to put the BIK in the Tax Plan. I have given the arguments for this. That's what's in there right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u236	We now know the political arguments of the Secretary of State. I think it would have been more appropriate to put the BIK in a separate bill, as proposed by the Council of State, also because the letter of amendment was sent to the Chamber later. That would've been really chic. In doing so, I join the SP and the Labour Party. But here's what I'd like to ask you. This is one of the examples that shows how we make tax plans. There are political mechanisms behind the way they are designed. That is a mechanism that also means that we now have nine legislative proposals. I would like to see this political argument, which is not always pure, included in the State Secretary's evaluation, because this leads to strange political debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u237	I'd like to take that with me. If Mr Snels asks me if I still want to look at that, I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u238	If you're taking a business asset abroad, how can the RVO control it? If we take the legal text of the BIK literally, how long should the business resource you buy be used in the Netherlands to get the right to the BIK? Maybe on day two you can transfer it to a subsidiary or a part of your company that, for example, is in Germany? We don't think that's possible. The second question is: if that deadline is there, if you have to use it here for at least a year, which seems reasonable to me, how does the RVO control it? For example, is there a declaration obligation on it? Do you have to pay it back or how does that work?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u239	There is no obligation to report. I'm just looking; I had just treated this piece. You asked me that earlier. I think we discussed this in the WHO or yesterday in the first term. Then you said, "Why don't you work with a disinvestment add-on?" The idea here is that, because it has to be a new business resource that has to be put into operation within six months of the investment, you could avoid a somewhat complicated disinvestment addition. That's worth something. That's the thought here. If you want to make business resources available to other, to daughters abroad and so on, then they are excluded from the BIK. Then your question is how the RVO controls that. This will have to be done by the RVO with checks on applications after IK declaration. The service will then have to carry out samples.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u240	So you're saying that if I put it in a business part of my own business... You can't hand it over to another company under the BIK. But what if you use it in your own company in Germany?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u241	A foreign subsidiary is excluded from the BIK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u242	A foreign subsidiary. What if that's not an independent facility? So when I transfer the assets from my Dutch company to my German subsidiary... under the holding company hangs a Dutch and a German subsidiary............................................................................................................................................................................................ But if I used it in the Netherlands for two days and then transferred it to the German daughter, am I entitled to the BIK?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u243	I have to think about that, but I think the answer to that is yes. We're assuming that... So you could make a disinvestment contribution scheme for that, but it is again difficult to control. So I think the answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u244	So if I use it here for one day and then pass it on to that German daughter, it's not about making a decision, but I alienate it to that German daughter, then I can just get the BIK for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u245	For the sake of clarity, however, the scheme is so structured that it is not intended to do so. Mr Omtzigt now describes a situation in which someone is doing something that is not intended. His question is, what do you do about it? There's control of that. That's about what we're saying to each other right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u246	I can't quite clear it up. I have a holding company under which a Dutch and a German daughter hangs. I buy a means and that means goes through a transaction from the Dutch daughter to the German daughter, after I have used it for one day. I took the foil off pro forma and then the machine goes......................................................................................................................................................... Get out of here! Get out of here! Get out of So I can get the BIK for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u247	I'll check it out for the second term. I just need to check if it's on this or this... It is clearly not the intention, but Mr Omtzigt knows that. It is explicitly about investments that are being used in the Netherlands. I just said a few words about that. But I'll just check on the situation and see if you can check it out, because that control seems a little tricky.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u248	There are two points that are difficult. I have long accepted that the control at the BIK is difficult and not a hundred percent, because at the time you are going to give corporate subsidies of €300 for an investment, we are not going to send a tax inspector there. That also costs €300 for a working day, so you don't have to explain that to me. That's not gonna happen in this country. However, it may be good to include, either in the legal text or in the implementing act, that the means of operation must be used for a minimum number of months in the Netherlands in the company. 'Cause then you get that big companies say, "Hey, I need a new chip machine. I import it from ASML, but because I am entitled to it, I just get a few percent discount through the Dutch State, because it can simply be put in that same group, in the German daughter." That's what you're trying to prevent. It's not about a little car. We'll get that. If you want to get back to how you want to avoid that in the second term, that would be very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u249	Yes. The officials are listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u250	The Secretary of State is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u251	I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u252	This cabinet, this Secretary of State, continues to explain very patiently that companies are not treated better than citizens. Earlier this evening, this was also discussed in an interrupting debate with Mr Wiebes. That's one of the reasons why the BIK has to go on, that 4 billion. But is it not true that there is also a reduction in the tax on profits for those companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u253	Yeah, there's a reduction. I think that Mr Mulder is referring to the reduction of the low Vpb rate. There is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u254	And does that mean that there are almost 23,000 companies going to the low rate? It's 22,800 companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u255	I thought I mentioned this number in reply to your question at the WHO. You may want to forgive me for not knowing the number by heart, but I thought so. You know, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u256	Yeah, I wrote it down. This means that in addition to the 4 billion for the BIK, there is also an annual structural shift of almost 900 million towards companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u257	Yes, there is not only a BIK in this package, but also a reduction in the low Vpb rate and an extension of the disc. If Mr Mulder wants to make that point: yes, that is true. I thought Minister Wiebes also pointed out that, in this cabinet period, the burden on employers eventually increased structurally by 5 billion a year. I still want to resist the frame over the BIK. I know it's alive, I read it all too, but I see the BIK as an investment premium scheme and not as a gift to business. For example, I believe that Mr Alkaya said a moment ago, and I had also remained there in my reply that there was a huge distribution of tax corona measures to companies and companies. Yes, that's true, but that's obviously done to keep people in service. The NOW is intended to do so; Mr Alkaya and I agree on that. So I'm resisting the idea that the cabinet is handing out to business, whether it's structural or temporary. Mrs Lodder asked whether entrepreneurs, employers and workers who are now in trouble can assume that they will continue to be helped after 1 January. I thought that in the debate on the last Corona Support Package, the three ministers indicated that they would come forward within a few weeks with a further letter on what to do after 1 January. Mrs Lodders can assume that I will write in it exactly what we are doing with the tax measures, including the things she mentioned in her first term. For example, she mentioned the measures in the usual wage environment for dga, the hourly criterion and the working costs scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u258	Yesterday, in the first instalment, I also asked for travel expenses. I notice that this really causes a lot of discussion but also concerns for employers, and I also think it causes employees. Could the Secretary of State say a little more about that? I understand that these other two examples of "dga dga" and the working cost regulation "d" also cost money, so I understand that the cabinet wants to make a broad assessment of this. But I think I know the Secretary of State well enough to know that these points are at the top of his list.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u259	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u260	But now it's about the cost of working. It would be nice if a little more direction could be given to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u261	You said the cost of work, but you mean the cost of travel.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u262	The travel expenses arrangement; yes, excuse. You're sharper.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u263	I don't have the details of the travel arrangements with me right now. I need to see what we can say about that in this period. I'm gonna have to do that in second term. I think the answer is that... No, let me take a look at that and don't let me guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u264	I'd appreciate it if we could come back to that in the second term. I refer to the concerns that exist, but I also refer to the fact that, of course, there is no cost to the cabinet. In that sense... Anyway, let's get back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u265	Mr. Chairman. I would like to say something about the income picture, because a few questions have been asked about it. Mr Omtzigt referred to the marginal pressure. Why has marginal pressure increased between €32,000 and €40,000 since 2017? This has something to do with the fact that we have removed the hard income line and the rent allowance. But I very much agree with Mr Omtzig: the marginal pressure figures are no longer peaks above 100%, but they still contain high percentages. I very much agree with him. This also brings me to questions from him and Mr Stoffer about the IACK and the portability of the general tax rebate. I actually wanted to park that all a little bit anyway. That sounds ugly, but that's not what I mean at all. "Parking" sounds like a standstill. How do you park something and let it drive forward? Let me put it this way: I wanted to take this into account in the committee which Mr Omtzigt is familiar with, and which I will soon give the Chamber the task and composition of.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u266	Thank you. The combination of parking and tax is no problem, because even parking can be taxed. There's really nothing you can't tax in this country, even if you stand still. I had asked for another commitment, namely to identify those places where there are still marginal tariffs above 60%, to come up with solutions for this and to have them ready around 17, 18 March, so that the parties at the negotiating table and find it a good idea to do something about it, a specific chapter with building blocks is ready: if you want to do that, you could do it, those and those interventions. Is the government prepared to ensure that that is ready for formation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u267	The answer is yes. I don't know by heart what was already in the building blocks about this, but I'm happy to. The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u268	I'd love to. The building blocks can use a supplement there. There was also a need to supplement the single-earning chapter, which Mr Stoffer has already addressed in detail. Because the solution that was there is completely impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u269	I remember this from a previous debate I had with Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u270	Yes. So on these two points we expect something about 17 March or 18 March; it does not have to be the day before the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u271	Yes. I'm gonna put a whole bunch of things together, and I'm gonna add something later on 17 or 18 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u272	I have, of course, given quite a lot of thought to the family. I have made a number of proposals in this regard and, of course, the IACK was included. Do I have to understand that the Secretary of State is now making a commitment that the whole package I have proposed will actually be included in the committee's first term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u273	Yeah, but I don't want to make any promises that could lead to misunderstandings. We shouldn't have that. Of course, the committee's capacity is not about the purchasing power picture for 2021, but Mr Stoffer also knows that. So what I would like to ask the committee's capacity, given the questions put by Mr Stoffer, is to pay particular attention to them. He's not alone with his concerns about the sole earner. I have to reread that task because it was ready for this debate on my desk and I have not yet sent it out. That was smart of me, by accident. I just didn't do it because I was lazy, but that was smart, because now I can add a few things. That's what I'm gonna do now. I think I am now giving a very long answer, which is fatigue, to just say yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u274	That's clear. I hope, of course, that there will be something concrete before 2021, but I will listen to that with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u275	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I'm going to say something about the liquidation and strike loss scheme. Mr Omtzigt (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Omtzig for his excellent report. I understand that question in such a way that he is actually asking whether abroad should not impose too much tax if the loss of one company is not offset by the profits of the other company. In this question Mr Omtzigt gives the example of a Dutch parent company with two subsidiaries in Lithuania. One company is loss-making and is wound up. The other one makes a profit. In other countries, the loss of one company cannot normally be simply transferred to another company in that other country. This may be different if there is a national regime that allows loss and profits between companies of a group to be offset. Thus, under the liquidation loss scheme, only liquidation losses in the Netherlands can be taken into account if it is no longer possible to offset the loss in another country. Mr Snels is nodding, and that makes me feel good, because it means I'm telling it right. Now only Mr Omtzigt is not in the Chamber; that is a pity. Is the sum sacrificed in the case of splits adjusted in all cases if the value in the course of trade is lower? Mr Omtzigt asks whether bona fide divisions are also affected by this letter of amendment. In order to avoid abuse of the liquidation loss scheme, the scheme has been adapted in the event of a legal division in line with the rules already in force in the case of mergers. So this is actually restoring an omission, for which Mr Snels should be thanked. Not in all cases of bona fide division, this automatically results in no or lower loss of liquidation being claimed in the future. The aim of this measure is to avoid, as in the case of a merger at present, that the division cannot deduct a higher amount than would have been the case if this division had not taken place. Mr. Chairman. Then Mrs Lodder asked if I could promise that the liquidation loss scheme will be evaluated after five years. I think that's a good idea. I think it's a good idea to look at that. It's not really easy yet how to evaluate that thing exactly, but we'll adjust it again. This brings me, a little wider, to tax avoidance and then I have to switch a few things with Mr Snels. I believe that we agree that this cabinet has done a great deal against tax avoidance. I myself added something to this in the spring about dividend flows into low-tax jurisdictions. You know that, in the eyes of some Members of Parliament, I am even too active in coordinating the international approach to tax avoidance. It is really my absolute view that you should do it internationally, both in the case of tax avoidance and in the case of corporate tax base erosion. I sent your room a letter about that last week. With regard to the Consultative Committee on the Taxation of Multinationals, the Ter Haar Committee, we are going to develop things further. I myself am very pleased that we are not only addressing the balance sheet, but also the arm's-length principle and the infocalp, and that we are also going to look at the power exemption. So I am actually quite satisfied with what we are doing on this point. Is this enough? I don't think so. For example, we are going to look at the flow companies, I thought in connection with the debate on the Tax Collection Act. That's when we agreed to this. And so there are many more things we could do. In the same chapter, Mr Snels and Mr Van Weyenberg asked whether we should not also steer on power inequality. I always find "must steer on" a bit difficult. I hear comments; liberals among themselves. I can imagine that, in the case of legislative proposals in the fiscal sphere, you may well be looking at the effect on property inequality, but I think that I am very close to what Mr Snels and Mr Van Weyenberg want. We may not have done enough in the past. I agree. I also note that capital inequality is much greater than income inequality in the Netherlands. I think that's one of the things we could really look at. Mr Snels came back to the small debate... It wasn't really a small debate, but I was wondering if I wanted to reflect on the double hats in the advisory committees. It's very complicated. I said in the debate that I am going to try to avoid that. I have also mentioned this and I repeat once again that the Netherlands is a small country. There are a lot of fiscalists who work at offices. I think that Mr Snels and I very quickly agree that most of these people will give proper advice. It's a bit in the structure: do you want people involved in something to give advice about something or have an interest in something? So if Mr Snels is okay with it, I would like to take some time to think about how best to deal with this question. I'm working on a tax governance code where you could record this. But I say again: I do not want to accuse the profession here in one way or another of all biases, which is not Mr Snels' intention at all, but it is complicated that people sometimes advise on something in which they have interests. I think that is at the heart of his speech and I agree with it. It is also important that those who are independent, the example given by Mr Snels, can also do their work independently. I think we're actually just agreed, I'm gonna say before I make a really long story. Maybe we don't agree on the solution, but I haven't figured that out yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u276	Thanks for the answer. I think I said in my somewhat ardent speech yesterday that expertise and knowledge from practice can also be valuable. That's not necessarily where the problem is. The problem lies in the mixing of science, independent, and working in tax advisory practice. That is where the double hats are, and it is not clear whether or not there are interests behind it, both from tax consultants and from customers. This is a very difficult public debate when it comes to fiscal policy, one of the pillars of our democracy. That is the subject I asked for the reflection on yesterday. I am pleased that the Secretary of State is also going to consider how this should be dealt with. I ask the Secretary of State when we can see something of what that reflection has produced.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u277	That tax governance code is coming up. There's already an essay book, or it's coming. In order not to make the officials I've been driving crazy over the past few months any more crazy, I suggest we get back to them sometime in the beginning of next year. Mr Omtzigt asked if I could take further measures on the provision of services to transit companies. I can imagine. I would also like to give this to the other committee, the Ter Haar 2 committee, which is going to advise us on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u278	Mr Omtzigt has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to do it right through the chairman, I notice today. I have an important question about these transit companies. If it's okay, there's a law coming up to make new flow companies impossible. This means that trust offices are no longer allowed to facilitate new flow companies. I would ask you to take another commitment, namely to include it in that law, and not to give it to the Ter Haar Committee, that even then existing upstream companies should no longer be facilitated by trust companies. Can the government promise that it will be included in that trajectory?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u280	I'm gonna have to take that up with the minister. I'll get back to you. I didn't quite understand the question. Apologies. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to a new love baby of mine after last week and that's the car taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u281	What was the old love baby?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u282	Shall we try to do it through the chairman? Because this is unfollowable for our millions of people at home. The Secretary of State has had a baby; do I get it that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u283	That's a lack of respect for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u284	Mr Omtzigt has a biscuit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u285	The biscuit is to be delivered to Mr. Annabel Nanninga in the First Chamber, whom we must congratulate on a son today. That's the only one who gets biscuit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u286	Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u287	The question was what the old love baby was, because there's a new love baby. The second question was: has there really been a text message that this really...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u288	I checked my app messages to see if I'd sent a text message saying "what a mess." I think I said it in the debate and I thought it. You know I always answer honestly. At least I thought it. I'm from Leiden. In Leiden, you don't just use "crap" for shit. It can also be: how complicated this is. That was mostly what I thought. But more serious now. We had a serious debate last week on car taxes. When I made this statement, I meant that this form of taxation is very complex. There are a lot of tools for not serving so many goals. An economist usually gets confused. In a way, it reminds me of when I looked at the housing market 20 years ago. That's when I always felt the same way. Lots of instruments, lots of things all over each other. That's where you're gonna help. That's where you're gonna charge. So does this. There's, for example,............................................... The autonomous greening is there and it's supposed to be. This is a measure of the basic erosion that occurs in fuel cars that run on ordinary fuel. We try to avoid the loss there by increasing the rates. That is a system that I said in the AO: I doubt whether it is actually a sustainable and good system. In the AO, Mr Omtzigt spoke of an auto letter, but I believe an auto letter is written by a missionary secretary of state. But none of that matters. I said in the AO that I would very much like to get around the car tax with some kind of building block dial. I am going to try to structure and point to everything that is going on in the area of car taxation. I'd love to. I would have liked to have promised this last week, and I will repeat it again. I think that's gonna help a lot. I do not agree with you, but last week we held a wide-ranging debate with the statement that too much bpm is being collected. I saw this morning that the BOVAG had announced that 1.5 billion too much bpm has been collected in recent years. Yeah, I know what graph that is. That's a graph that does go up like this, but the five years before that the bpm has gone down quite a bit. Shall I finish my sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u289	I'm waiting my turn!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u290	So I don't agree with that. I do agree that, if you look at the effect of this autonomous greening this year and the cars, it is difficult to explain that the mix of cars sold next year should lead to this number of greening. That is difficult, but that is the starting point for what we are doing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u291	It is of course very nice to bring 2012, 2013 and 2014 in the comparison, but the Autobrief II comes from 2015. 2015 was the base year from which this autonomous greening would take place and also the further phasing out of the bpm. There was an agreement in the Chamber that the bpm would be reduced slowly, because it is extremely difficult to maintain European law. It's not because there's a hate for taxes. From that year on, the bpm has more than doubled. RAI and BOVAG have a point. You would come back to where that 100% came from and to what models that is. I haven't been able to understand that. That's one. Two. Can you consult RAI and BOVAG in that Autobrief in the coming months and see which autonomous greenings have been predicted every year since 2015 and which autonomous greening has occurred? 'Cause there seems to be quite a difference in that. Each year, the Ministry of Finance has predicted more autonomous greening than there was. This means that every year in the previous year we have increased the tax. And that was never corrected with retroactive effect after that. Does the Secretary of State intend to hold that discussion and inform us in a month or two of what is causing that hole?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u292	Yeah, I'm telling you. I'm just gonna do that. That's gonna help. That's also gonna help with the question. I tried to answer the question last week, but apparently I didn't manage that well. There are two things that are mixed up. There would be a tariff cut, but other things have gotten past that, such as the autonomous fee itself. The models have changed and more cars have been sold. We talked about that last week. I think Mr Omtzigt says: go talk to the industry and try to make up for what happened there. I would like to tell him that, but if the Chamber allows me, I would like to take a slightly longer period. Mr Omtzigt would like to start with Autobrief II, but then he has to allow me to start in 2009-2010. These were other years in which the actual remuneration was higher. The autonomous fee dates from 2009, not from 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u293	That is possible, but then I would like to hear about the whole process how both are thinking about it. The Secretary of State is right when he says the cars have gotten bigger. If you take out the electric cars, they've still gotten a little bigger. However, the number of cars is lower. According to the graph, it was also the highest number of cars sold in 2015 of all those years. That, too, is decreasing. This year is, of course, an exception. We all get that. So within a month or two we will hear what you and the car industry think is reasonable and how it should be done in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u294	Yes. I think it's wise for me to have these conversations with the car industry and report back. The way things are going in the future, I'll include them in the building blocks. Do you think that's a good division?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u295	Yeah, and then I'll wait for the $300 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u296	I think it's coming. I've got that in my answers somewhere. Mrs Lodders and Mr Stoffer said that, apart from the discussion at micro and macro level, we should also look at cars for lower and middle incomes. I think that's what I want to do. I think Mrs Lodders announced a motion on this matter. It seems fine to me, because I can see that there are remarkable jumps in that CO table. That's what I said last week in the AO that we were talking about. Those jumps make certain models that are sold a lot more expensive all of a sudden. Mrs Lodder also asked if the payment period for the bpm was extended to three months. The answer to that is yes. That's what we're gonna do. I will make sure that the industry is clear on this in good time. That's before the taxable fact is adjusted. Mr Omtzig asked about the 300 million in my letter yesterday and my explanation that this comes from the Tax Measures Act. I think we are confused about what Table 4.4.1. in the Annex to the Millions Note shows in relation to the handling of new legislation, as we are doing now with the Tax Plan. Table 4.4.1. shows the overall impact of policies on different types of taxation for the year 2021, including the bpm. This table deals with all the policies decided upon at the time the budget is presented. That is the policy of the Tax Plan, but it is just as good a policy that has been decided before and which has budgetary effects in 2021. I say to Mr Omtzigt that it is the usual course of action to present it in this way. So we will also see effects on the bpm in the forthcoming budget of measures under the Tax Measures Climate Agreement Act, following from the booking of the package in 2019. Mr Stoffer asked if I would encourage the purchase of ADAS systems. ADAS systems have to do with road safety. They shall become mandatory by 2022. A tax incentive is not at issue for the time being, but I am prepared to see if we can conduct an investigation into this. Here, too, we had a debate on this issue in the AO, namely that tax instruments should always be used to achieve a hundred goals at the same time. I say to Mr Stoffer that we will also include this in the investigation. Let's see. I thought I'd already answered these. Is the payment period in the bpm stretched to three months? As indicated, I am prepared to do so. Yeah, I told you. Mr President, I think I have had the cars with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u297	Block three!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u298	That brings me to a favourite, another favourite that Mr Wiebes was already trying to steal from my face, but of course I didn't allow that. That's the Zip code rose scheme. It is proposed that the Postcoderoos scheme be abolished on 1 January. The subsidy scheme which replaces it will be opened on 1 April. Mrs Mulder and Mr Van Weyenberg have tabled an amendment to bridge this gap. I understand that wish. I will come up with a comprehensive assessment of all the amendments in my second term, but I can tell you that we will give this amendment a Chamber of Justice. Mr Van Raan has asked a number of questions about climate. He asked me if I took it as seriously as Mr Wiebes. Does the Cabinet actually take it all seriously? The answer is, of course, yes. Mr Van Raan also knows that I do. We're trying very hard to work on it. An official study group headed by Laura van Geest is currently working on how to shape the increased reduction of 55% that has now been determined at European level. This will undoubtedly play a role in the coming formation. Mr President, I think I have had things in this area. I've got another folder called "Other Tax Plan" that contains all sorts of stuff. I can do that now, so we can complete the Tax Plan ourselves. Mr Omtzigt asked: is the Secretary of State prepared to make a plan of action, so that there can be no fraud if the Tax Office will transfer to electronic third-party possession? The answer to that is yes. I'll tell him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u299	Yeah, great, I'd really like to see a plan of action for that. I've seen a lot of whatsapp fraud and there's a lot of people pretending to be someone from the IRS. It is extremely painful when people think they have paid to the Tax Office, and that is not the case. They'll have nowhere to go and nobody's ever been attacked at all. So I would really like to have a plan of action in a few months' time for what is happening now and for what can happen in the future. If that means that with the Minister of Justice you need to modify the Code of Criminal Law a little bit to make sure that you pose as the Tax Administration by, for example, using logos of the Tax Administration becomes punishable, go ahead. And you just have to take care of those 0800 lines where you can apply for surcharges and you have to pay €1 per minute and pretend they belong to your colleague Van Huffelen's Tax Office/Applications. Just pretending to be someone from the IRS and getting the citizen to pay for it isn't okay. If I can see that package for once, it would be very helpful for confidence in the Tax Administration as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u300	I agree with Mr Omtzigt and there will be such a package. I have a few more questions about the IRS. We're gonna have another AO on that. Mr Stoffer had also asked a question about it. I'll tell you about that later. Mr Van Haga asked me if I could make it clear by tax means what the collection costs are. I'd like to do that. I'm gonna try and share that. It's going according to the tax administration's spending model. It is going too far for now; in view of the clock, I do not think I should go into explaining it now. I'm going to share it with you for the AO Tax Office. We'll have that in two or three weeks. Mr Van Haga also asked whether the consequences of the abolition of the Hills Act had been properly investigated. I am in favour of once again identifying what the phasing out of the Hills Act has meant. We need to see what the logical moment is for that, but we will be happy to do so in itself. Mrs Lodders asked whether the reinvestment reserve could be promised that the Tax Administration would handle applications for extensions and customisation within the scope of the law and case law. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say: yes, I can say that. For Mr Omtzigt's question about the loss relief, I need to take a little longer. Mr Omtzigt knows that we do not yet have an execution test in the loss relief. The loss relief will only be introduced as of 1 January 2022, I say by heart. I can therefore imagine that we would agree that if there were problems arising from this implementation test which would lead to an amendment to the law, I would discuss it with you at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u301	Thank you for that, but I would just like that performance test to be sent to the Chamber when it is there. If that execution key is completely green and has one orange flag, you say: fine, here is the execution key. If there's a problem, tell me what happens to it. But then we'll just see him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u302	Yeah, that's my goal, too. I forgot the legal instrument. We'll just put him on KB. Mrs Lodders asked me to set up a committee to examine policy options for the investment climate. Sure, I'd be happy to. We've already talked about that once, so we're running out of time. Let me briefly say again that I would like to set up such a committee. I'll be coming to the Chamber with you as to exactly what that committee's mission is. Mr Omtzigt asks whether he understands that, for the purposes of applying the 1956 Succession Act, a dwelling of one of the partners who is enclosed in the community under prenuptial terms is not a gift. The answer is: yes, you understood that correctly. That makes sense. Mr Nijboer asked how much tax was lost by the corona measures. We've put off massively on taxes. From my point of view, we have a national delay of 12 billion. That's a lot of money. In spring, the Ministry of Finance assumed the potential loss that could occur. I thought we would soon report back to the Chamber in the context of a regular report. So I'm not gonna guess how much of that isn't gonna come back from now. The longer it stands, the longer it takes, the greater the chance. Mr Omtzigt asked, also in view of the AO Tax Office, if I can still come up with a note, a sort of summary of what we have seen here, I am also speaking on behalf of Mrs Van Huffelen, the list of what is wrong with the Tax Office. I'm gonna say I'm gonna make a list of what's going better with the IRS. I'm sure Mr Omtzig would like that, too. Seriously, I think it's important to the Chamber. I'll make one of those lists to supplement the extended letter we wrote a few months ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u303	That commitment's nice. Anything that's still wrong will be notified again and will now be sent to the Chamber. I mean, everything we now know is wrong...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u304	Exactly, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u305	I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, Then I had another question about the total amount outstanding. There is the 12 billion that has been postponed in the context of corona. That's right. But there's a second thing. No recovery measures have been taken in the country since March. That is of course very nice for a number of parents, but there are also quite a few people we need to be behind for the recovery. Otherwise, it won't go well. How much money was available in March that was due at that time, so where no objection and appeal was possible anymore, and how much is that now? How are we gonna bring that back a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u306	I've seen the answer, but it's not in my set. I'll come back to that in second term, with an apology. I'll get back to you. I promise. Then I'll get to the step-by-step register. Now Mr Van Weyenberg is running away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u307	Quick, quick, quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u308	Step, step, step, step index. There he is. Can the Secretary of State clarify the road register, I think I can draw up Mr Omtzigt's question? He thinks we're already joining the step-by-step register. That's not right. We are not going to go along with that, but we are going to do so in the long term. If you want to fully endorse this now, then the measure we are taking now is not enough. The measure costs about 120 million, and we didn't have that available right now. The answer is we're gonna do that. Then I come to a theme that I think is important and which I like to come back to. Well, I guess I'm gonna have to say something about the Tax Office. This is the moment. The debate on the Tax Administration on 4 March is still very helpful to me. It was an easy debate. Mr Stoffer was the first to ask about the tax offices and the physical presence of the Tax Administration in the country. I said at the time that this seemed to me to be an important point. I had just begun as Secretary of State. I am now increasingly convinced that there can be a lot better on the outside of the Tax Office. I think that is also true of Mrs Van Huffelen. That's what we're all gonna discuss in the AO Tax Office. That is the case on the inside of the Tax Administration, but also on the outside. I would therefore like to say to Mr Stoffer that I will be going into this very shortly. Maybe I can do that in the AO about the IRS. We see a number of white spots in the country, where the Tax Administration is not physically present. It would be good if the IRS were. By the way, that doesn't mean we're opening a tax office there. This may also mean that a branch of the Tax Administration is present in a library, a town hall or whatever. So I'd like to get back to that during that AO. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to my last topic. However, that is not a small subject. That's all that has to do with box 3.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u309	May I interrupt you for a moment? I am very grateful for your succinctness, but if I could just get back from 10.30 p.m. when we have a VAO Nertsen, we should start with the second term at 21.45 p.m. There are going to be a lot of motions, which also need to be commented on. We also have Secretary of State Van Huffelen. Again, we should start at 9:45 p.m. with the second term. So if you could round it up pointy, then we can then...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u310	I'm really gonna focus on the questions that have been asked. I'm really trying to be very succinct, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u311	I can tell, and I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u312	Can the Secretary of State make haste with a possible counter-proven arrangement? Yes, the Secretary of State is making haste with a possible counter-proofing arrangement. Mrs Lodders asks whether this can be done as from 1 January 2022. There's still a cabinet formation in there, but I'm gonna try to figure out what it takes. I'm gonna try. Then I'll leave the questions as to why after four years it's not possible to still tax the real return. I shall pass on those questions from Mr Mulder because he knows why that is not possible. That doesn't work in the execution, but he also knows that I've really put the turbo on it and I'm really going to try that. Mr Stoffer asked whether the Secretary of State was prepared to come forward with proposals to base the box 3 tax on the actual return by March 2021. I have only understood Mr Stoffer as follows. If that research is there with the technical possibilities to burden the real return, then I will be able to do so. Actually, the short answer is yes. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a point from Mr Omtzigt. We have been discussing the past around box 3 for many times, in public and not in public. I have sent an extensive letter on this subject, to which I refer briefly. The cabinet's argument is that the return that should be achieved is the minimum return. This could be achieved for a certain capital category for two years. We therefore believe that this is sustainable. I did mention in the letter, however, and I repeat that, for the sake of clarity, one more time, it is true that new judgments by judges can, of course, lead to new insights from the cabinet. But this is the judgment of the cabinet, as is also quite clearly laid down in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u313	Both the court and the CPB have stated that these must be seen in conjunction. Only one of the three categories, namely deposits, and not even deposits on one of the three major Dutch banks ING, Rabobank and ABN AMRO Bank... There was only one way you could get 1.2% return and then just pass the High Council test, so you paid less than 100% tax. That was all your savings! In the event of a default of at least five years, the credit institution shall report to the competent authority of the Member State in which the credit institution is located, in accordance with Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the credit institution of the
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u314	Mr Omtzigt really does not do my answer right now. I can get the answers, but we have looked at fixed-term deposits of one, five and ten years. One year is not just about Turkish banks. I'll just leave out the adverb! For example, there is also a bank like the NIBC in between, I say out of my mind. At five and ten years, there are increasing numbers of banks where this is feasible. I don't share his evaluation that only exotic banks can do that. What I don't share with him is how to understand the "in conjunction." But that's a matter of weighting and we've been talking about this for a long time. We understand the Supreme Court in such a way that if there is a possibility of achieving that return through a certain capital category in the year in question, that ruling is fulfilled. The CPB doesn't say anything about taking the average of those three. So that's how we consider the "in conjunction." But, Mr President, let me put it this way: I do not think we agree on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u315	No, we don't agree on that at all. "In conjunction" would mean that on January 1st you know exactly which of the three horses you have to bet on. Whether you can put it in a savings account, you don't know, because that savings account can adjust its interest rate on a daily basis. That is also why the Supreme Court chose the words "in coherence." On 1 January, you do not know what to do, unless of course you fit exactly into that one-year forward deposit. Then you know exactly what you get in the rest of the year. If you invest it in a government bond of Minister Hoekstra, for example, or if you put it in a savings account, you don't know it. You could say that the government says with this: "You should have known afterwards that you could only have gotten it on that deposit in advance. So you should have put everything on that deposit or at that bank." Well, that's why the Supreme Court said "in conjunction." 'Cause, yeah, it makes sense that you're...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u316	That's one way of looking at it. Sorry, I don't have the floor, Mr. Chairman. Excuse me, I'm getting too excited. That's one way of looking at it. You can look at it differently. You can also read the "in coherence" if: if someone cannot achieve the return, they can switch to an instrument with which they can achieve that return. For example, the cabinet reads the "in conjunction" or the "average" or whatever you want to see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u317	That is a very special interpretation and also a different one from that of the Supreme Court so far. It has taken an average, including in the sums given. So we disagree on that. But does the cabinet consider that it is not a financial risk by getting a claim on 2015 and in particular on 2016 for the capital return tax and the tens of thousands of remaining objections?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u318	Then I have to go one step further. This discussion takes place and then the question arises as to whether there is a need for financial compensation. The lawyers also disagree, because some lawyers tell me that the subsequent amendment in box 3 can already be considered sufficient by the judge. But I do admit to Mr Omtzig that the cabinet does not say that there is no risk at all. The cabinet says that, at this stage of the case law, there is no reason to compensate. I just said that if new statements were to be made, we would have to re-assess them. That's where we stand now. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer and Mr Omtzigt have asked me about the implementation of what I call the cutting of the capital limit in the tax-free base in box 3. I agree with Mr Nijboer and Mr Omtzigt, but I promise the Chamber that we will try to do so. It is also stated in the documents on this subject that we will find a better execution by 1-1-2020. That's one. Secondly, Mr Omtzigt asks whether the Secretary of State or whether he can indicate that there is a coulance of the Tax Administration if this leads to problems for individual cases. I think I can promise that and I want to promise that, so that we at least make sure that this does not cause people any trouble. This was the only way I could do this cut this way. It is not beautiful, but it was also a Jan de Koning-starting point. I see Mr Van Haga standing there. I'm gonna shut up for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u319	Let's talk about the last piece. It is good that we are working towards real profitability. My first question is then when will you come back with that? Second. A lot of things are now being changed in that whole box 3 charge. I would have asked before, I do not know whether that question is going to be answered, whether it is reasonable that there should also be a certain transitional period or a transitional arrangement for people who have consciously opted for a certain structure, in order to make it easier for them, for example, to go to box 2.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u320	It is not the purpose of the cabinet to make boxhopping easier. I do not think that Mr Van Haga means that either, so I will not interpret his question in this way. If he means whether there is a need for transitional arrangements for the measures we are taking now, then I cannot imagine so much, because we are now simply increasing the duty-free rate. It seems to me that you don't need a transitional arrangement for that. If you're gonna make some really complicated jumps in box 3, I can imagine. But I think the jumps we're going to make... I'll also immediately answer your first question about the actual return and the counter-proofing scheme. I have as a timing that I am going to try to have the material around the formation ready both around the actual return and around the counter-proof scheme. How soon can it be introduced? I have just told Mrs Lodder that I am doing my best for the counter-proofing 1-1-2022, but I think I am already being looked at by the performers as if I have gone mad. But I'm gonna do my best to do that. The moment for the real return is after that. I have said this once before in a debate: a decade. I did that to buy peace, but had the opposite effect in that debate. This is all coming up. Then difficult knots will have to be cut through in the formation. I keep saying that it is the implementation that sets the limit here, not the policy wishes. I'm doing everything I can to get it done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u321	Thank you for the answers. I think it's rather major changes. So it seems to me that you should leave the possibility open to another structure that people choose. You can call that boxhopping, but I don't think that's it. I think the moment something changes, you should definitely leave people the choice. But that was decided in your answer. You'll come back to that later. Let's wait for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u322	'Make the choice' is a variant of the counter-proofing scheme which I am examining in response to questions from Mrs Lodders. I think that's what you mean. I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u323	Let me come back to the previous point. The Secretary of State undertakes to adjust the implementation next year. I can't wait to see what that looks like. Because now it's very simple: when you pay box 3, you have to turn in fees; at least, you can. And soon it will be: if you have a bit higher power but not a box 3, you can still be hit. I think very few people will understand that. So I'm curious how the Secretary of State will solve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u324	I'm gonna do a few things. Mr Nijboer is right in saying that there is very clear communication. That's one. Secondly, in response to Mr Omtzigt who asked me to do so, I have promised that coulance will be applied when people make mistakes here. Third, we're gonna find a better way. I really can't turn that road in right now. If I had known that better way, I would have chosen it right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u325	Okay, that makes sense. I understand that, too. If the Secretary of State knew by now, he would have. Then the final question is: when do we get that insight? 'Cause I think it's really unfortunate. I can see that there will be a coulance scheme and that it may be resolved, but it can be a serious problem if you have to hand in your rent and your care allowance, especially if it lasts for a few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u326	I'll have to check it out before my second term. Mr President, that brings me to the end. At least, at the end of my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u327	But now the other Secretary of State has flown. She could have gone all day, now she's talking and she's not here. Maybe it's stage fright. I don't know. We're gonna suspend for a while. Then we can all stretch our legs and wash hands and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u328	The floor is for Secretary of State Van Huffelen. Again, 21.45 hours I would prefer to start the second term, because we also have the minks. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u329	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will answer the questions that have been asked about the Improvement Act's feasibility surcharges. I do this in four blocks: the third party information delivery, the child care allowance recovery operation, a number of other questions, and the advice of the national attorney and a memo from 2017 about which questions have also been asked. I'll start with questions about third-party information. I would very much like to emphasise the importance of this arrangement. In fact, it will help parents to apply for good allowances, not to make mistakes and thus also to prevent recovery. Because correct and good information is essential in order to achieve that. The provision of information by third parties can help us, especially parents, to give us the right information and to get the right supplements. For example, by getting information from childcare organisations, we can draw parents' attention to the fact that there may be errors in their application. On that basis, the advance can be adjusted by them, not by us. It is a measure aimed primarily at preventing errors that might arise because someone does not keep an exact record of their income. The request from third parties of that data must, of course, be proportionate and the processing of the data must be done with care. I also understand the dilemma that has been exchanged in the Chamber. In particular, Mr Snels and Mr Omtzigt spoke about it. The bill therefore has a basis in the AMvB. The AMvB isn't here yet. I cannot discuss it with you, because it is still with the Council of State at the moment. Your dilemma is that it is therefore difficult for you to answer this question exactly. I have previously informed you of what is in the AMvB and what information I would like to obtain: information about parents and children, about care, the hourly rate and so on. I also do not intend to request other data than I have included in my letter and will also be included in the AMvB. I do not want to create another stream of data at the moment. My idea is to build on what I am already doing. At the moment, childcare organisations are already giving us data of their own accord. That's about about 80% of these organizations. In an AMvB, I want to convert this into an obligation, making it 100% possible and therefore also applicable to all parents. Mr Omtzigt asked about the pending procedure. In the second letter of amendment, we have included a proposal for this, but I understand that your Chamber wants to be more involved in this and that an amendment will be put in place to that effect. In principle, I have no objection to that at all. This amendment deals primarily with future data exchanges. In doing so, I think it is very important to continue the process that is now going towards the Council of State on the current AMvB on the exchange of data with childcare organisations. Given the dilemmas outlined above, I see the possibility to propose a follow-up procedure on this first AMvB to ensure that you can look at that AMvB again. If you want other things, we obviously have to do the procedure again, but I hope that you will be able to agree with that AMvB, given that we are already working in this way at the moment. The implementation does not have to be delayed, because we will then start working on this measure, unless you finally choose to change the AMvB. In the context of time I continue with how it works exactly that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u330	There is another question from Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u331	I have a simple question. If it is so much trouble with this general measure of governance and the Secretary of State indicates that it is not her intention to request more information than is currently in the measure in the future, why not put in the law what data are being requested? Why is it regulated by general measure of governance, which means that we now have to deal with art and flying? Why not just settle in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u332	In the law we provide for the possibility of data exchange in a broad sense. This AMvB is specifically about the data exchange with childcare allowances. We are doing this in this way because we have the opportunity to add other data exchanges later on, which I do not see a possibility for right now. This way we can make sure that you also look closely at it. We don't include it in the law. We do include in the law that we make that information exchange more widely possible, but whenever there is a request based on a choice that you can make. You also asked about the Dutch Data Protection Authority. In the meantime, he has said he can live well with this way of exchanging data, which is already happening. With that nahang you can take another look at this AMvB. Dan would like to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u333	Mr Omtzigt briefly, briefly, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u334	When was it brought before the Council of State? He is not on the overview on the website of the Council of State as pending AMvB. According to the letter sent by the Secretary of State to the Chamber, it was referred to the Dutch Data Protection Authority about eight weeks ago. And the Personal Data Authority was able to indicate within four weeks that there were no objections. Is that there? Did they forget him at the Council of State? Is something wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u335	My information is that it's still there. When exactly it was sent there, I owe you the answer. I would like to come back to that in second place. Mr Omtzig asked about the exchange of information. Would there be an opportunity to share this information in more innovative ways and could parents also understand the data of the childcare organisation? Currently, childcare organisations share the data with the Tax Administration. The intention is therefore to continue with this. We want to use the data to send a message via an app.......................................................................................................................................................................... Parents can then immediately check and, if necessary, change it when they consider it necessary. So we do not do that for them. That's what they have to do. Some of the parents are already receiving these reports. This applies only to those who are members of an institution that already shares that information, but in the course of next year this could apply to many more organisations. But there is therefore the possibility for parents to have a real insight into the data provided by the childcare organisation. Then I shall continue with Mr Snels' questions in this area. I think I've already answered that. I have also indicated that the AP has now responded positively. Then I'll move on to another subject. This has to do with Mr Omtzigt's question and with Mr D66's question on the employment requirement for prison sentences. In the law that we propose, a remaining partner of someone who goes into detention is eligible for an exception to the labour requirement. It is therefore eligible for allowances, the childcare allowance, if the partner is sentenced to prison for more than 12 months. That exception lasts as long as the sentence is served. Mr Omtzigt's question was: what happens if someone is in prison for eight months? On the basis of the proposal in the law, the condition of at least one year is not met, which has been chosen because it is in line with the hardness clause applicable to prisoners in the rental surcharge legislation. But that is without prejudice to my understanding that there is an amendment for this and that the cabinet is willing to look at it. Moreover, on the basis of the current legislative proposal, a person who goes to prison for less than a year can rely on the so-called social-medical indication in the municipality. Then there is Mr Omtzig's question about parents who, due to financial difficulties, pay their contribution to childcare costs too late, without any payment arrangements being made. How do we deal with that? In principle, we are going to determine in a proportionate manner what the costs paid in good time are. We are trying to strike a balance between tailor-made work for parents and being able to determine the final supplement, for which it is necessary to see whether the parent has paid his own contribution. In most cases, care is paid by parents during the year or shortly after the end of the year. However, for parents who are unable to do so directly due to financial problems, there is the possibility of making payment arrangements with the childcare organisation. Right now, it's not like you have to have paid for everything before March 1st. If you have a payment arrangement, it can also continue until after 1 March. But I understand what Mr Omtzigt is saying. He says: there are also cases where there is not yet such a payment arrangement, but where not everything is fulfilled by the parent by 1 March. I am therefore prepared to extend this deadline until 1 July, after the end of the calculation year. This means that a parent, when unable to pay the costs directly, has a longer time to actually arrive at the checkout with us, where the whole supplement or stays in place. We could do that. I would like to hear whether that is in line with what Mr Omtzigt has in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u336	His answer is yes. That's just for reporting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u337	Then I would like to move on to the block about the recovery operation of the childcare allowance. As you know, I, along with you, attach great importance to a very careful process of compensating the disabled parents for the problem of childcare allowances. Unfortunately, they have to wait longer than we first thought. That's also why we're on the basis of the motion... Sorry, it was an amendment. Well, I'm saying it wrong again. It's a letter of amendment, but on the basis of a motion. On that basis, we give parents a concession. That concession shall be €750 and shall not be offset against any subsequent compensation. I think that is important, because Mr Alkaya said it was an advance, but this is a separate amount. So it's not settled, it's not an advance. We also know that variant, namely that we already pay parents. But this amount will be paid to the parents who are in our picture in December. We're not gonna settle that anymore. It is also good to know that we have already treated some 117 parents in full and that all 169 parents who were in acute problems have already discussed this with each other at the end of this week a first payment will be made. Mr Omtzigt said that there was an execution test on that letter of amendment for the €750, which includes a number of red flags. That is right, because of course this arrangement is not perfect. It has been put together quickly and there are risks, as I have also indicated in the letter of amendment and its explanatory statement. The risks include that there are people who may not have reported to us in time or who were not yet known to us or who feel that they have already reported, but are not registered with us, and who are therefore not eligible for this €750. That is, of course, unfortunate, but we cannot so easily transfer so much money to people without running the risk that a number of people will not be eligible. Of course, every parent who reports to us and points out that there is a very high level of distress and that there are major problems remains eligible for our emergency services. So it is not a perfect arrangement, but it is the best way to ensure that we are able to transfer those amounts to a group of about 9,000 parents this month.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u338	This month?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u339	Sorry, I'm saying it wrong. It's December. I've been living in December, but it's not yet. Mrs Lodders and Mr Van Weyenberg asked whether, in anticipation of the outcome of the motion on the exchange of information with municipalities, work could be speeded up to ensure that parents who need help from their municipalities, for example in the area of employment, housing, debt relief, could be brought to that municipality. This is also a subject that we discussed earlier and which municipalities in particular have said they would very much like to discuss. So I agree with the importance Mrs Lodder sketches. I also agree with what Mr Van Weyenberg said: can we not ensure that people are helped with this before, for example if they are allowed to do so themselves? As I announced earlier, I am very committed to ensuring that parents are not only compensated but also helped by the municipality in the areas of care, work and living where necessary. The provision of data, such as the civil service number between the Tax Administration and municipalities, if it provides a solution, could be very helpful. I am therefore also in favour of Mrs Lodders and Mr Van Weyenberg's proposal, which said: will you now see what can happen? I have started work and I hope today, together with Mrs Lodders and Mr Van Weyenberg, that we can come up with a proposal that could lead to an amendment that would allow us to deal with this. Mr Omtzigt asked about the fight against fraud. Is there anything else going on in this area? I want to be very brief about that given time. We have said a little more about this in the progress report and will want to say more about it in the next progress report on surcharges. We are still committed to monitoring and fraud, and we also want to improve and renew it. This capacity has been reduced in recent times, because some of the people working on it have been used mainly in the context of the childcare allowance recovery operation. Then there is Mr Omtzig's question about the tax authorities' decisions in the event of an application for a supplement. In practice, this period of two times thirteen weeks is not really the time limit. In most cases, the decision will take place in the month following the payment application, so much earlier. In practice, therefore, the waiting period for applicants is much shorter. However, in a number of cases, for example, when it is necessary to obtain more information from the citizen or creditor concerned, more time is needed on our side. And shortening that deadline, although it is much shorter in practice, is not really in the interests of citizens and especially those who want to have a supplement and are entitled to it, but need time to give us the right information to make the right decision. So my proposal is not to shorten those deadlines. Then there was the same question from Mr Omtzigt... I shall continue at this rate, Mr President. Is that too hard, or...?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u340	That's perfect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u341	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u342	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u343	Then there is a question from Mr Omtzitz about the deadlines for citizens to reply to questions from our side. That is a subject we have discussed before. I indicated in the AA on 15 October that I would like to provide additional information on this. I have put forward a proposal for the deadlines for the response. Mr Omtzigt wants to make it a little longer. The reason why I am not in favour of this is, above all, that I want to avoid, for example, that those long reaction periods give rise to too high a surcharge for too long and so they are faced with higher recovery. But again, I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u344	I understand that last point. Maybe I didn't make my question quite clear. I can imagine that the response periods are three weeks when it comes to a supplement for the current year, or if you are going to do a specific monitoring action. For example, you want to ask out 100 people because you simply have signals, for example by exchanging the data, that they receive too much surcharge. So I fully understand that. But this discussion arose about the massive ex post retrieval of data in a year that was over. Then the Tax Administration/Applications asks everyone to send in the hourly state. And there it went a bit wrong this summer, because that went into the summer vacation and it had to happen within two weeks. So can the Secretary of State undertake the following? In that first situation, so if it is during the current year or if there is a signal that the surcharge is too high, the time limits may be shorter. But in the second case, if you ask everyone for all the evidence, can't the deadline be just four weeks? The year is already over, so the damage is already done if there is to be recovered. That's the commitment I'm looking for here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u345	I find that a bit difficult too, because I indicated last time that we do not want to do this kind of questioning in the summer period or during the school holidays. But in fact that period is much longer, because our proposal is to ask a parent for an initial period of three weeks, and then send a repeat if the parent does not respond. And then there's another opportunity to turn in. In total, a parent has more than six weeks to submit the information. I therefore believe that this sum of a first term and a second opportunity to respond if you have not responded within three weeks and are being reappelled by us is more than enough to actually answer. The deadline is therefore in fact much longer than the four weeks you are talking about in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u346	This is a rather delicate point, because the Tax Office has not been entirely truthful with the National Ombudsman on this point. But my estimate is that it has led to a lot of panic reactions in parents. At least I noticed that in my mailbox, and they sometimes know me and Mrs Leijten quite well in this file. Parents who had been on vacation wrote: there was a letter and it had to be in two weeks and I am now too late, help, I get into trouble! Then there is indeed that rappel, but precisely at those moments... It's just about the summer vacation, because at the crocus holiday, a week, it doesn't really matter. Isn't it wise to just turn that into four weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u347	But I have just said to Mr Omtzigt that it is not my intention at all to do this kind of action during the summer holidays. That happened this year as a result of delay by corona. So number one is that we're not going to do these kinds of actions, asking out the missing annual data, during the summer vacation. That's one. The second is that we are taking more time to do so. It was two weeks, but we'll make it three weeks. In addition, there is always the time limit. Then we'll send someone another letter or call him to indicate: you've been asked by us, but you haven't responded. So the total time limit within which someone can respond is much longer. But I am fine with coming back to that in the letter I promised in the AO of 15 October. Because then I also said that we use multiple dates for different types of processes. In the letter I will be happy to return to you so that they are clear. Your call to ensure that people do not panic and that people have a real time to respond, of course, I share your heartfelt concern. 'Cause I don't want to push people over the blade to get information fast. On the other hand, however, I would like to ensure that this does not lead to further recovery. As far as I am concerned, we shall return to that in writing. Then I shall continue with Mr Omtzigt's question on the delays in recovery. It is in line with the question you have put to my colleague Mr Vijlbrief, but specifically for supplements. We stopped the recovery in March because of the corona measures, but as far as the surcharges are concerned, we started again in September to recover sums that were open. We just haven't started the coercive action yet. I'll give you the numbers that go with that: at the moment, there's about 1.3 billion open. Again, that is of an annual amount of about 15 billion in supplements that we pay out. Soon we want to look again at what we are doing with the coercive actions that we have stopped at the moment. By the way, we have also stopped another part, namely the part of all the people involved in the recovery operation for the childcare allowance. That's where all the reclaims will remain until we've reviewed the files of the respective parents. I shall now move on to the questions put by Mr Omtzigt, Mrs Lodders and Mr Van Weyenberg. Mr Omtzig asked for a solution to be found in situations where the creditor would earn much more over a year, which would mean that the rent payment for that year would no longer apply and would therefore have to be reimbursed. Mrs Lodder's question was mainly to look at quick fixes for simplifying the payment system. She also indicated that she wanted us to look at the position of students who are going to work after their studies, earn more and then lose their supplement in about a year. Mr Van Weyenberg also said something about this. The essence of my answer to this is actually that I would like to try as much as possible to avoid distressing situations at surcharges. Of course, we are doing this partly with the current legislative proposal, but I agree with Mr Omtzigt's and Mrs Lodder's wish to look at more solutions and do further research on them. Moreover, I very much agree with many who have said that we must look for a new system of supplements, because the present system of supplements with all these different bases, changes and so on does not do what it has to do. This is in line with Mr Bruins' comments and with his questions in the first term. In line with Mr Bruins' question, I will ensure that, in reporting on alternative models for the surcharges that we want to make at the end of this year, we not only look at the final stage, at the model you want to go to, but also at how you can get there in steps. So we're not just looking at final images, we're also looking at the steps that need to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u348	Good. Can we go to the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u349	No, because I have one last, little block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u350	There's always a small block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u351	This is about the draft advice of the country's lawyer and a memo from 2017. Mr Mulder, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Nijboer and Mr Van Weyenberg asked for this draft opinion. They've asked questions about it. The lawyer was asked for advice in 2009 on whether there is a right to childcare allowance if demand parents do not pay their own contribution to the care and, in particular, in the case of host care. According to that opinion, I also said something about this in the letter I sent on this subject. It was advocacy, said the Land Attorney, that the Tax Administration/Applications initially moved to zero, zero, setting the child care allowance if demand parents did not pay their own contribution. Thus, the national attorney also indicates that this step can be defended and explained within the legislation. However, the national attorney wrote, but the question parents should then be given the opportunity to prove that there is a charge for receiving them. If they were to succeed, the country's attorney believes that child care should possibly be reduced in a way that is now known as proportional. In the end, if parents had not incurred any of their own costs, there would be no entitlement to childcare allowance. So the state attorney advised that all the facts and circumstances of the case should also be taken and checked. As I indicated in my Monday letter, no follow-up has been given to this proportional allocation of the supplement. I'm looking for further pieces that help give some more context to this advice, about the client but also about who has read this advice, because we don't know exactly at the moment. I'm going to report on that in the progress report. It is clear that the interpretation and method used by the Tax Administration/Applications at that time remained endorsed by the Council of State, but it is also very clear that the lawyer here indicates that proportional awarding is a way that is quite possible in the event of partial compliance with the parents' contribution to childcare.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u352	This is a clear explanation, but I would have liked to have seen the play. I'll tell you why. More than 15,000 parents got into trouble because they made a small mistake somewhere: a signature is missing or for example €50 has not been paid. Then you have to pay back €50, you would normally think, and maybe another €50 fine. Parents are fine with that, they understand that and they don't find it a problem at all. But parents who didn't pay €50, because a mistake was made somewhere, were recovered €10,000 and they got in deep trouble. This memo says that in 2009 the Tax Administration knew that was not in the law. For years, we have been assured that the legislation has been in place. Every parliamentary question I asked was the answer: the legislation has been complied with. Then when I asked where that was in the law, I didn't get an answer. Until the county attorney said that the law doesn't say you have to recover everything. So all the answers to parliamentary questions that have been given for years are wrong. And there was a piece of advice. This is serious, because with this advice and with a memo from 2017, which we are going to talk about, it is clear that for years now the Tax Office has been known to the Tax Office, it has been advised at the top of the Tax Service, because an opinion from the national attorney is read by the top of the Tax Office and is not given to the workplace that they were wrong to recover and that in 2017 they already knew that they had to compensate by that memo from the professional coordinator. Both documents were not given to the Donner Committee. One piece was given to the ADR two days before publication, so that the ADR could not change anything. The Secretary of State has previously indicated to the Chamber that if there is a suspicion of criminal offences, there is no evidence but a presumption that there is a duty to report on the State Secretary himself. Does this lead to an additional declaration, because it has brought up pieces that should have been dealt with at the time at the summit of the Tax Administration and which could have reduced these parents' misery for three years?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u353	It is quite clear that the choice that was made at the time by continuing with the non-proportional granting of parental allowances has caused problems for many years. That is exactly what we have found in the Donner Committee's report, with the ADR and ultimately in the law that we have adopted. You are asking whether it is necessary for people who have received that advice to be given an additional declaration. That won't be necessary. I reported this spring together with Mr Vijlbrief. The D.A. is working on this, as far as we know, and has the possibility to use all the information it receives afterwards, and the D.A. naturally has access to all the information exchanged here and can request and use it in the declaration. We don't need to press charges for that. The D.A. can take that into his investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u354	The Secretary of State and the Code of Criminal Law are very clear. If there is a suspicion of a criminal offence, there is an obligation on the government to report it. It's a reporting obligation. A limited set of documents was reported. The limited set of documents did not contain the opinion of March 2017, which clearly stated that the Tax Administration had to compensate. It's not up to the D.A. to read WOB documents. It is up to the government to decide independently whether this leads to a further declaration. Declaration of falsehood in writing, which so far is not there, but if you read the pieces that have just been sent, there seems to be reason for it, because it has been consistently said that there has been a GGD signal from 2013 while the GGD signal was from 2011. In 2013, there was a praised GD report. So there's wrong data in the pieces. I'm not saying there's evidence of that crime, but there are good reasons, and that was enough. The same applies to the other piece we received. So there are all kinds of reasons. I understand if the Secretary of State is unable to answer now, but I would ask her to take a further look at whether she has any further information leading to further cases for which reporting is compulsory under criminal law and to inform us about them within two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u355	I can give that answer to Mr Omtzigt on the basis of what has happened in the past period. There's no reason to press charges again. It is for the Public Prosecutor's Office, on the basis of the report we have made, to answer what it intends to investigate further, what offences there are, or what are more than the facts we have mentioned in the report. That's what the DA can do. As far as I'm concerned, there's no reason to press charges again. There is no limitation on the scope of the investigation. It's up to the D.A.'s office. If the D.A. thinks it's necessary to do that investigation, it's possible. Apart from that, I indicated that I would like to do my own research on the context of that 2009 memo. So again: whether there is clarity as to who has given the order and how the decision not to follow the advice or not to follow it as it has been given by the national attorney has taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u356	We will receive further information on 2009, but the additional declaration is mainly based on the documents from June 2019 and March 2017. June 2019, there is a huge amount of factsheets, which we will come back to in a moment. March 2017, the professional technical coordinator who apparently, at the request of the MT after that, also talked about it at a heathen's meeting throughout the MT, said that the Tax Administration had substantially broken the law and had to rectify it. That didn't happen. If this kind of additional information is found, I recommend to the Secretary of State in good faith to say so very kindly and I am not going to table any motions to seek legal advice on whether to make additional claims. There have been new documents on the table. They are so serious that new crimes could follow. It simply says clearly: we have done it wrong. They were not included in the declaration, because the declaration is about professional discrimination and this was not about that at all. I would ask you to keep that request open to consider very carefully over the next two weeks whether there is any additional obligation to report, because I will come back to the general discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u357	Then I suggest that we look at an open question on that basis. Actually, we've already talked about it. It was about the 2017 memo. In view of the time, I will end by stating that in the coming period, apart from these themes, I will also focus on restoring the trust of the damaged parents. I believe that Mr Omtzigt's question has not yet been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u358	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u359	I expected some other answers anyway. We suddenly heard that there is a different kind of MT-reports and that there is a kind of double-accounting of MT-reports. Double accounting by the Tax Administration on decisions taken at the highest level of the MT Fees seems extremely undesirable to me. I had asked for a qualification from the Secretary of State. The second qualification I would like is the next. I have repeatedly asked what documents on the CAF cases have been available to the Secretary of State, the predecessor of the current Secretary of State, and to the Director-General of the Tax Administration. And now, just before the debate, we get 50 pages of factsheets. It's got everything in it. There are also 14 pages of information about the Chamber. It says: incorrect dating signal GGD, possibly no excuses made, possibly his apology too much, no excuses have been made to the host parents' office, but we did say it, we used the word "fake invoices," but we shouldn't have used that. I can go on for a while. For a year and a half we asked if we could see all the pieces. This isn't a piece that happens to have another rule about CAF in it. This is exactly what the Director General of Tax and the Secretary of State at the time knew about the CAF business. If this had been used in June 2019, Donner's entire investigation committee would not have to be set up. So I asked three questions. Is there a double bookkeeping? Has the government informed the Chamber correctly by not sending these documents to the Chamber, when we have asked for them several times? It's relevant to know what the Secretary of State knows about it. And would Donner and the ADR have come to a different conclusion if they had had these documents?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u360	First of all, let's talk about those MT reports. With you, I also find it incredibly disturbing that it appeared that there were different types of MT reports, namely MT reports that were widely shared in the organisation and MT reports to which the MT added additional information, such as personnel confidential data. You can imagine that well, but the point is that it was not just about personnel confidential data, but also about substantive issues, such as how to deal with CAF. Of course, those reports should have been sent to you at the time you asked for them. That didn't happen. That's what I did with this. I find it very disturbing, like you, that those MT reports containing additional information were not shared with you. That should have just happened. Then about the point of the factsheets. You have previously received the draft of the factsheets and you have requested the final version. You have been given these concepts and you have now seen the final version of them. There are differences in these parts; you will see that as you study them further. Then there is the question of whether Donner and the ADR would have reached a different conclusion. I indicated earlier that the ADR actually received that 2017 memo, albeit at the very last moment, a few days before they issued their report. It has not led them to change their conclusions. The Donner Committee didn't see the play. I cannot respond well to them, of course, but if you look at what the committee has finally advised, you will see that the Donner Committee takes on board that proportional allocation should be part of the policy, that there should be repaired and repaired and that retrospective consideration should also be given to proportional determination. I can therefore imagine that the committee had not reached a different conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u361	Mr Omtzigt, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u362	Those answers amaze me. I'm gonna tell you why. The Secretary of State says we've had an earlier version of these factsheets. Yes, we did last week. But I asked for those factsheets a year and a half ago. I asked for a qualification of the fact that we have been asking what information is available for one and a half years and the most clear information available has not been given to the Chamber for one and a half years. I would like to hear a qualification of whether it is correct to inform the Chamber and whether these documents should not have been given to the Chamber earlier. These aren't civil servants' emails or anything. These are documents that were on the Secretary of State's desk. Two. The Secretary of State doesn't think it would have led to another conclusion. But in the March 2017 memo it just says that the Tax Administration has to compensate. The assignment to Donner was the question: should the Tax Administration compensate? That memo would have been enough to make the entire Donner committee redundant. That memo came up in June and I think there was a total argument throughout the summit of the Tax Administration. On that memo I found a signature from Mr Uijlenbroek, then Director-General, and from the Deputy Secretary-General. They all had to sign him to show him they saw him. That's all in the pieces; I've been studying them until 3:00 in the morning. They've all seen him. And somewhere in June he didn't come to the Chamber, while at that time the Chamber was on fire, because those parents were still recovered daily. And that's when there's been an advice for two years to quit. There's been an advice for two years to quit. That memo comes up and it's not being forwarded, but instead an advisory committee is being set up to draw the conclusions that were already in the memo. How am I supposed to judge this as a Member of Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u363	Maybe two things. The first piece was about those factsheets. How come we asked for it in the Chamber and didn't get it? Of course, that should have just happened, done. I have also written to you before: we will give you everything we can now find or bring it up or get it another way. It's important that that information pops up. I am committed to being very transparent about this. That's why you got all those pieces. I understand it's an incredible amount. Like you, I've been through them, too, and they're huge packages. That's one. The second point was your question as to whether the Donner Committee had reached the same conclusion. I think so. But you are actually asking another question: should the Donner Committee have been there at all? Probably not. Perhaps they would not have had to come if we had taken that proportionality earlier. The Donner Committee also looked at the CAF investigations. There was another reason for that. But it is clear that all the problems have arisen because there has been no other action before. In the report, Donner said something about this, namely how we are going to make it up to the parents or try to make it as good as possible. That was necessary because of the fact that there has indeed not been any other action before. In 2009, there was no follow-up to the advice given at the time. Also in 2017 and also at previous and other times in time, there has been a call to indicate that it was not desirable to continue to apply the hardness of the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u364	The Secretary of State says something very important here: perhaps the Donner Committee should not have been set up at all. If that memo had just been published and sent to the Chamber, we wouldn't need a Donner commission. Then we could have gone straight to the conclusion that the restoration of justice had to take place. That whole Donner I committee has been a bum because the top of the Tax Administration has declined to reveal this exclusive memo at that time. In doing so, they have extended the suffering of these parents. They could have just said: we have the evidence here; our top lawyer has said here that it is not right what the IRS has done. And what did they do? They gave a memo to the Secretary of State at the time: go set up a committee. And that commission didn't get that memo. I would like to have a qualification on how that could have happened, which, instead of setting up that committee, has not just been sent that memo to the Chamber and has begun to restore justice. How does the Secretary of State qualify?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u365	You give a qualification how you look at this theme. I mentioned earlier that all kinds of problems with parents, if they had previously chosen to deal with this proportionality in a different way, had not, of course, occurred, whether in 2009 or later. It is good to point out that, of course, it was not only the Tax Administration that made that choice, but that it was also settled in the case law that took place. But, of course, I agree with you that anything that could have been prevented should have been avoided. In this respect, I am pleased that an investigation has indeed been carried out, that it is above water and that we are now in the process of repairing the suffering that has been caused. Hopefully, this will enable us to compensate parents as soon as possible or at least slightly alleviate what has gone wrong in all these years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u366	Thank you. I want to go to the second term. You can say a few words, Mr. Ommzigt, and then we'll really pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u367	This is making me despondent. I am despondent about this, because in these documents which the Secretary of State has raised above the table and which I am truly convinced that this Secretary of State has not seen them before, there is an official pattern to be seen. In June 2017, when the problem becomes clear in full, a two-year memo will come back that has had the entire summit of the Tax Administration/Applications. That's what they organized a heatherag about. On that heath was the theme: we did it wrong; what else should we do? They didn't tell anyone because they wouldn't tell me. 14 July 2017. They wouldn't tell anyone. Two years later, that memo comes up. Who sees him? The Director-General of the Tax Administration. It's forced to sign, because everyone says, "Here you have it." The Deputy Secretary-General at the Ministry of Finance says, sign, you've seen him. And who doesn't get it? The House of Representatives. What does the House of Commons get? The House of Representatives receives an assent decision from a committee that still has to investigate what was just found in that memo, namely that CAF 11 was wrong. That was Donner I. Donner II was about proportional recovery. We're gonna talk about that again. Donner I wouldn't have had to be set if that memo had been sent to the Chamber. I ask the Secretary of State to confirm or deny that. The Secretary of State has already said that we were entitled to that memo. The Chamber is not well informed. Well, that says something about the predecessors. But does she agree that Donner I, the first report, wouldn't have been necessary if that memo had just been above the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u368	It's kind of a what-alstance. I find it difficult to answer that, especially because I was not there at the time, although I understand very well that I am still responsible for that. I suggest that I do not answer that directly, because I find a "what if" difficult to answer. This is without prejudice to the fact that I agree with Mr Omtzig and many of you that we must work as quickly and as hard as possible to restore all the parents who have suffered so much from this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u369	So much for the first term. Thank you to the Secretary of State for her answers. We're going to the second term. I changed the schedule a little bit. We're going to do the second term of the Chamber first. I'll take the minks in between. Then the Secretary of State can also give some thought and perhaps communicate with the ministers about answering the questions or the motions. I'm just saying. Then we'll do the government's second term. You don't have to do a second term. You don't have to do that. We often have the Christmas regime just before Christmas. We have St. Martin's regime today. So you can limit yourself as you like. Mr Mulder is going to set a good example. Watch me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u370	Sint-Maarten isn't that day with lots of candy and kids with lanterns, as it should be? We are talking about four long, difficult days with a very difficult ending, but I think that is right, because corruption unfortunately has a new face in this country. On the other hand, it's nice to be able to end up with four healthy-intellects. Firstly, I have a motion which deserves the support of all those who oppose discrimination. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to abolish the expat regime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35572-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u371	Then I have a motion that deserves the support of everyone who stands up for Dutch companies. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several foreign providers operate on the Dutch online gambling market without a licence;]] [[noting that these providers currently pay zero euro gambling tax on their turnover in the Netherlands;]] [[whereas the Gaming Authority has found that the Dutch State is therefore missing at least EUR 90 million a year in taxpayers' money;]] [[Whereas the levying of gambling tax on the prize winners of these providers is not a realistic alternative;]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure that from 1 January 2021 all online gambling providers operating in the Netherlands are subject to the Gaming Tax Act, whether licensed or not,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35572-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u372	Then there is a motion which deserves the support of all those who want to do something about energy poverty. That'll appeal to the SP. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to immediately abolish the storage of renewable energy and climate transition, the ODE, and the promotion of sustainable energy production and climate transition, the SDE++,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Edgar Mulder and Mr Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35572-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u373	In conclusion, I have a motion which deserves the support of all those who are opposed to this Secretary of State taking the money from arm and giving it to rich as a sort of reverse Robin Hood. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many billions of euros have already been spent on the "greening" of the fleet without any result;]] [[noting that the tax subsidy mainly benefits the Tesla elite;]] [[calls on the government to stop funding for plug cars,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35572-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u374	Thank you, Mr President. I see you give me ten minutes, so I'm gonna do the best I can. No, I'm trying to stick to the St. Martin's regime. That's a nice term. First of all, I would like to thank the directors for their contribution, their response and their constructive dialogue. For the sake of time, I will not repeat all the commitments I have made, but thank you very much for that. I would like to make two further amendments. I have just submitted one with Mr Van Weyenberg. That was actually a bit announced by State Secretary Van Huffelen. That amendment concerns the exchange of information, particularly in the direction of municipalities. It's small and short and for the people who want it. I therefore hope that the Secretary of State will be able to reflect on this later. For the second amendment, I am looking at the other Secretary of State. After all, I had asked for a review of the coverage in the working cost scheme. I haven't heard anything about that, so I'm just going to prepare an amendment myself so that with that 5 million cover I can do something else instead of dropping it. Mr. Chairman. I come to my motions, first of all to strengthen the motion on research into investment, entrepreneurship and innovation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands is in the worst economic crisis ever;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands will have to invest and innovate from this crisis;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the sectors concerned, to examine concrete policy proposals (fiches) to boost investment, both fiscal and non-tax, and to strengthen entrepreneurship and innovation;]] [[invites the Government to send it to the Chamber in the first quarter of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Lodders, Mr Bruins and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35572-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u375	Mr. Chairman. Then the file car. In my view, the words of the Secretary of State are in the throat of some people, and I do not think we are really going to agree on this either. I won't repeat the Secretary of State's typography of "shit." He just did it himself once. I am glad, however, that the Secretary of State openly doubts whether it is a sustainable and sound system. He has made a number of commitments, and I very much appreciate the commitment to Mr Omtzigt to talk to the industry. So I can count on my support for that. I myself have a motion on the effects of fiscal policy on the rejuvenation of the fleet. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas rejuvenation of the fleet contributes to sustainability and a cleaner and safer fleet;]] [[whereas in the case of car taxes, the macroeconomic impact on the budget is often clear, but the (micro) effects on households and on car prices and charges are often limited;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a further study on how the micro-impact of fiscal policies, for example on car taxes, can be better taken into account in reporting and decision-making, and to report to the Court on this;]] [[calls on the government also to standardise the impact on the rejuvenation of the fleet in the (fiscal) policy preparation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Lodders and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35572-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u376	Mr. Chairman. Then there's the fees. I've been trying to divide the motions a little evenly. We have just heard the Secretary of State respond to a number of issues in the law before us this evening. I think they're important hits. However, my group is keen to see further quick fixes in the supplement system being investigated. I have prepared the next motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the surcharge system is very complex, leads to the pumping of money and affects people's capacity to do so;]] [[Noting that, in accordance with the Lodges motion, the Cabinet (31066, No. 582) carries out some quick fixes to improve the payment system;]] [[calls on the Government to examine further quick fixes, pending the abolition of the surcharge system, and to implement them wherever possible in order to avoid distressing situations and recovery, such as students starting their first job after their studies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Lodders and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35572-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u377	Mr. Chairman. Then there is my last and slightly longer motion entitled'monitors infrastructure CO levy'. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that access to infrastructure, such as a sufficient-capacity electricity network, a hydrogen network or a CO network, is an important condition for many industrial companies to be able to reduce CO emissions, and that for some companies a necessary network outside their own installation is not yet available, for which realization is also dependent on third parties;]] [[Whereas, in response to the TICI report, the government has indicated that it will do what is reasonably possible to resolve bottlenecks, so that a shortage of infrastructure will not prevent industry from reducing C0 emissions, and that in a multi-annual programme stakeholders will agree on the main infrastructure necessary for the sustainability of industry in the clusters, after full consideration of infrastructure needs of other sectors;]] [[Calls on the Government to monitor, in parallel with the review of the CO levy, to the extent to which, through targeted use of public funds, sufficient progress is being made towards the realisation of infrastructure foreseen in the multiannual programme;]] [[calls on the Government to develop accompanying policies where this is not the case,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Lodders and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35572-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u378	Mr. Chairman. Minister Wiebes and Minister Ollongren are no longer present, but, of course, through the Secretary of State, I also thank them for their reply and commitments. I assume this will be passed on. Mr President, I will conclude. It's actually a repeat of last night, but I'm gonna do it anyway. We are in the worst economic crisis the Netherlands has ever known. Although it seems to be getting better, the boat is far from in the harbor. But this Tax Plan shows that the government is taking the right measures. We help entrepreneurs through the crisis and we help them invest. We help people build a buffer or we give them extra support when they want to buy a house. I would just like to say: let's get to work together! Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u379	Thank you. Then Mr Snels from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Let me see if Mr Snels will also quote himself. Grab a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u380	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll make it really quick. I was just quick to figure out that we've been at it for about 32 hours. If you look back at the number of laws and measures, we have actually spent very little time on all those laws. Then about the tax plan itself. There's just good stuff in there. Think of purchasing power for households, the Ter Haar commission and making the health bonus net. The Chamber and the Cabinet know that the BIK is in the throat like a rat. Two times 2 billion by means of a letter of amendment... The royal road had been I say that not only on the basis of the advice of the Council of State to do it in a separate legislative proposal. It's disappointing that the cabinet didn't do that. I do welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to evaluate this whole process. In my view, this includes a number of elements, such as the planning of all tax legislation and the related legislation. Think also of the decision-making moment, as the Study Group on Budget Space has also advised, and of the commitment made by the Secretary of State. There is a political mechanism and political preferences behind this. They also need to be shown a little bit, because they make it difficult for the Chamber to do this legislation right. Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers on tax avoidance. I think we're pulling on the same side of the rope, but sometimes I try to pull a little harder than the cabinet, but that's part of it. In general terms, we will continue to discuss the agenda for the coming period when it comes to tax avoidance, which I believe we discussed in December. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for reflecting on the double hats. I am talking about the tax advisors who are also professors and scientists and about how this is mixed in the public debate, including in the advisory committees of the cabinet. This does not mean that expertise from practice cannot be useful. Mr. Chairman. Then a number of beautiful things have happened in the treatment of all these laws. Think of the liquidation and strike loss scheme. I think it was two years ago that I asked written questions in the report with the Tax Plan and I was dissatisfied with the answers. That's when I started the initiative law. The cabinet has taken over. We're going to vote on that tomorrow. That is a moment for a Member of Parliament to be proud of, so I say in all modesty. Mr. Chairman. Beautiful is also the transfer tax in the housing package. I am referring to the limit of four tons. Together with the Labour Party we were part of the living arrangements. Think, among other things, of the 450 million in the housing fund. That's a good result. This is really going to make the world a little bit better, as is the case with the initiative law. It's also gonna make the taxes a little more honest. I'm proud of that. I am also proud that I, together with Mrs Lodders, have made another amendment to the Supplements Act. This will mean 380,000 fewer recoveries per year. That's very nice for people who have something to do with that. That makes it easier for the Tax Administration and is therefore also a very small bit an improvement for all those parents, all those people, who get fees. Finally. I am not tabling a motion, but I would like to make a motion by Mr Van Weyenberg, who, in the end, says that in the Netherlands there is so much inequality of power that we need to send more. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u381	Thank you. Then Mr Omtzigt of the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u382	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answers. Most of them bring clarity. A legislative process is tough, including for the people at home who follow it. Questions about the BIK, ask if you should bring investment funds abroad, and ask about what happens if you still pay the child care allowance after 1 March and if you are entitled to child care allowance may sound boring, but can avoid a lot of problems in the future. That is what these legislative processes are for. That's tough, but that's kind of our core task. That is why I am happy to take the time to do so, also because I have become wise in recent years as a Member of Parliament when we have had too little attention to it. With this Tax Plan with about nine laws ten if you take the BIK as a kind of half law; the opposition has rightly noted that it is a proper note of amendment, we have seen them smaller, it is still very easy, if you calculate it per bill. Mr President, a number of things. With the transfer tax, we think the hard border is a bit clumsy. You should have said, "You don't do anything above four tons." Because now you get all kinds of constructions to push a price just below four tons for a limited category of people. Anyway, it's gonna happen soon. However, I ask the Secretary of State on the issue of housing corporations whether it means that the implementing decision on transfer tax will be amended and, if so, how and when. I would also ask the Secretary of State for Finance, of course, to ensure that this exemption is interpreted in the same way by several inspectors. Can he go into consultation with Aedes when adjusting the job transfer exemption, so that the solution is guaranteed that it will work in practice? Because we just expect all the houses to be transferred to each other, without running into the transfer tax. This of course as long as the house remains in use as a social rental house; that can of course just be said. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the implementation of legislation. I'm asking the government here for a commitment. We have found that a law we dealt with in 2016, the Fiscal Simplification Act 2017, which announced, among other things, the recovery of surcharges and tax debts, has not entered into force. That is not reported to the Chamber either, unless you say as a Member of Parliament: hey, we have ever passed a law; does that law apply? Then it turns out he didn't. I would like to have an overview of all the legislation that we have adopted here in the last five years that has not been adopted. Those can also be parts of laws. Because then we can see: hey, we thought we'd arranged this, but it's not settled in the end. At the BIK I am very curious why the disinvestment adjustment is not necessary. I am eagerly awaiting the opportunity to ask for a third term for it. How is it prevented that you will have an investment asset for a German daughter purchased here by the Dutch subsidiary of that company and then immediately ship it hops, because you happen to get a percent or three francs that is still due to the amendments that come in the form of a discount in the form of the BIK in the Netherlands. The BIK is meant for everything, but it is not meant for that. Then the limited community of goods. It doesn't lead to a donation to married people. Thank you for that clear answer. What about final settlement clauses for cohabitants or married couples? This may also be referred back to you in writing. It takes back a commitment from 2018 to make an arrangement for cohabitants. Mr. Chairman. Box 3. I think we're getting to Strasbourg. I don't think we're getting anywhere else. I look forward with interest to the commitment on the transfer companies. So how existing subsidiaries can no longer use trust offices. 'Cause that would really mean getting rid of it. I would like to look forward to that comprehensive letter on the electronic third-party seizure and the overview of all the problems that remain with the Tax Administration, because I have missed an answer on when the reports on the inheritance and gift tax will come. Soon I will hear the numbers on the recovery and I will see the wocos. I was a little shocked, though, that there is still 1.3 billion in supplemental debts in the enforcement. That is precisely the opposite of what Mr Snels has just said, because Mr Snels talked about relatively small debts. It is good that this will be reduced, but the problems are not in debt of €60, I would just like to say to Mr Snels. That's to pay for most people, even with a slightly lower income. The problem is with people who have a debt of €1,000, €10,000. That's where the problems are. If, at the same time, it turns out that 1.3 billion is waiting for enforcement, then I would like to know what problems we have at the time we initiate the enforcement procedure. Does that mean that all kinds of people are immediately pushed over the edges and we're all gonna get in big trouble? Also because the renunciation hasn't worked yet and because people haven't been informed in the meantime. I am shocked by this amount when it comes to the surcharges alone. Then the factsheets. With regard to the factsheets, I have another supplementary question. There is a small difference between the provisional factsheets and the final factsheets. You say you've seen the final factsheets. Did you also happen to see that for the first time there is a recognition that the second nationality has been used as an indication of abuse or fraud? That's an indication of the suspicion of a criminal offense. Doesn't it fall under the reporting obligation? We're making it very concrete. I imagine the government will return to these questions in writing. But the most serious thing, of course, was that if we had these documents, we would not have needed the Donner Committee and we would have been a year later in compensation. I hope that will also be made clear internally in the Tax Office, because this is driving me pretty crazy. Mr. Chairman. I'm glad you can pay until July 1st instead of March 1st. I would like to have a solution now for the deadline for requesting information. That's why I've got three motions to make. The first motion concerns the PhD students. We didn't talk about that. On the prisoners, I come with an amendment. If one partner is in prison, the Secretary of State says: then you can use the municipal regulations. The municipal scheme is often only there if you have an income at minimum level, but if the partner who is not in prison simply has an ordinary job, then that is not income at minimum level and there is no right to childcare allowance under the socio-medical indication. That is why we come here with an amendment. For the PhD students, this old PhD student says without children at the time, I say but at the time, it is very bizarre that when you have a contract of employment as an aio and if you earn more, you may be under child care, but if you are a PhD student and believe me: every PhD student wants to become aio as soon as possible, he is not entitled to child care allowance, while those people are doing the same thing, namely working 50 hours a week to write off that dissertation. As a student you are entitled to it, as a prisoner you are entitled to it, in the Wlz you are entitled to it. The only people who wouldn't work in this country would be PhD candidates. That would be a little weird. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that PhD students and PhD students are not entitled to child care allowance in all cases;]] [[Whereas it is not fair for them to fall between shore and ship depending on the legal form of work, because in some cases they are not eligible for childcare allowance as a working person, but also not as a student;]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure that all PhD candidates are entitled to childcare allowance if they need it, and to inform the Court in the first quarter of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35572-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u383	Mr. Chairman. Then we'll talk about the time limits. We've been over the holidays. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that beneficiaries are currently granted a period of two weeks to comply with an information request from the Tax Administration;]] [[Whereas this period is very short, especially if it falls within a holiday period;]] [[Whereas, in the case of a supplementary year running too long, there may be a possibility of recovery, but this problem does not arise if the supplementary year has already ended;]] [[invites the Government to apply a four-week period for requests for information at the end of the payment year, so that payment recipients have sufficient time to comply with the Tax Administration's request for information,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35572-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u384	Mr. Chairman. Then the closing point. That's not very big, you know. It's about shore flow. That has something to do with Rotterdam. That's a city that's very sweet to me these days. I don't know why. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that until the end of 2023 a reduced energy tax rate and an exemption from the ODE for shore power installations will be introduced for the supply of electricity to inland waterway, maritime and cruise vessels;]] [[Whereas shore power has enormous advantages over generators for CO emissions, air quality, noise emissions and nitrogen deposition;]] [[Whereas a generator ban will be even more effective in achieving environmental gains than a reduced rate for shore power, but ships and ports should be allowed time to make investments to use shore power;]] [[Whereas, in the interests of creating a level playing field, it is preferable to seek European solutions in climate policy, but also to cooperate with neighbouring countries;]] [[calls on the government with a strong European leading group with at least Germany and Belgium to take an initiative to phase out shore flow in European ports and report to the Chamber by the end of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35572-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u385	It sounds stupid, but the best thing is that all ships, including the cruise ships, are obliged to use a plug and turn off that generator. If there's anything dirty... an old diesel car is clean compared to the fuel oil of a ship. So here we have fun with people in Amsterdam, Rotterdam and all those other cities, which are also quite important. Mr. Chairman. There are two other amendments, but the Secretary of State has already hinted at them, because she knows they are being prepared. We want a front for the AMvB on every exchange. That means that if the Chamber finds that an exchange cannot take place, it will not take place. That's a little less than what the SP is proposing, but it's at the same point. We also want an afterhang on the current AMvB so that if there is something in it that we do not like, we can still let him move in. We assume that is not necessary. We have a little more confidence in this government, but it is important that we keep our finger on the wrist with all the blacklists. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u386	Very good. Mr. Ommzigt, I need you to turn in the motions yourself. It's all done-it-yourself these days. We are waiting for Mrs Mulder from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u387	Thank you very much, Mr President. Yes, Rotterdam. My grandfather's from Drenthe. He had his own company and always said: those people there in the harbor work very hard too. He was a real hardcore Feyenoord fan. He gave it to me. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the letter to the Climate Agreement on Climate Policy states: "Climate change does not respect national borders. Climate policy is therefore an area of excellence for a European approach. The ETS system, resource policy and European standards on mobility are examples of areas where European agreements are crucial and are preferred by the Cabinet.';]] [[Considering that until further notice, the Cabinet considers the national levy necessary in order to ensure the national reduction target agreed with and for industry in the Climate Agreement;]] [[Observed that ambitious plans are under development at European level to reduce CO emissions from industry, not only towards 2030, but also towards 2050;]] [[Calls on the Government to confirm its preference for a European ETS solution and to develop scenarios in which European regulation can also achieve the Dutch targets, including the valuation of scope 2 and scope 3 emissions under ETS, so as to create a level playing field and ultimately make a domestic charge unnecessary, and to inform the Court of Justice of this in the first half of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35572-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u388	I'll deliver her myself in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u389	Great!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u390	I would also like to thank not only the Secretary of State but also the ministers and all their people, who have worked very hard, just like our own supporters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u391	Yeah, and Feyenoord et cetera. Thank you for your conciseness.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u392	Long live Feyenoord!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u393	That's the way it is, Mr. Overzigt! Then we will listen to Mrs Beckerman from the SP Group. Oh, no, Mr. Alkaya first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u394	Mr. Chairman. The vote is well in place as time progresses. I have stressed in all the discussions we have had on the Tax Plan that it is important to consider who is going to pay the bill for this crisis. We are in the midst of an economic and social crisis and fortunately a lot of money is being spent and solidarity is being organised. Many of these measures have also been supported as SP. But it can't be that that account will go to the people at home, the households, or to cuts in the public sector. That is why we have taken a critical look at every measure and put every measure along that measuring bar. We will also have to consider structural additional sources of income in the near future in order to pay this bill, albeit slowly. That bill simply has to be paid by the people and the organizations that can afford it. In this macro-economic context, and in this light, the three motions I have tabled today must be seen in particular. But of course we also discussed the content. The motions will speak for themselves. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to increase the rate of corporation tax in the second instalment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35572-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u395	That was a pretty simple motion. The next motion is about unfair tax concessions on cars. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is extending the Tesla grant to cars with solar cells and hydrogen and that, moreover, there will be no maximum catalog value for this extension;]] [[noting that the government does not follow the advice of the General Court of Auditors to critically reconsider the high expenditure on electric driving;]] [[believes that climate policy, which only enables rich people to sustain their cars, is unfair;]] [[calls on the government to stop all current tax incentives for electric driving,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35572-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u396	Mr. Chairman. Finally, a motion which I shall table, but which is based on Mrs Beckerman's speech. That's how we did it to save time. Hopefully that still works a little bit. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that large consumers have different exemptions and exemptions;]] [[Whereas this is precisely the way in which the largest emitters are least likely to become more sustainable;]] [[considers that this is contrary to the polluter pays principle;]] [[Whereas this is an obstacle to fair and effective climate policy;]] [[calls on the Government to put an end to all exemptions and exemptions for all heavy industry in the ODE regime and energy taxation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya, Mr Beckerman and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35572-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u397	Mr. Chairman. Finally, a number of comments. I thank you for your Presidency and I thank the Cabinet for being the Cabinet and also for the discussion. Sorry, it's late.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u398	Look! The SP comes into a constructive role.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u399	Sure. Mr. Chairman. I don't think this is the time to give tax rebates to business. In my view, that much had become clear from my speech and from the motions we have tabled. We did not just talk today about the tax plans and the different laws. We have also talked about the handling of the premium affair, about the parents who are being compensated and about the news that has come out again. I have, of course, tried to replace my party colleague, Mrs Renske Leijten, in the legislative process and in the final part-session. That was certainly not possible on this subject. Perhaps it is a little unusual, but I would like to express my appreciation to Mr Omtzigt for the discussions with the cabinet and the cooperation with my party colleague Mrs Leijten, so that this disgrace, this disgrace, is erased as quickly as possible. It is a good thing that this allowance is available to parents and not an advance so that they do not have another heavy Christmas and heavy holidays.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u400	It's been noted. Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mr Van Weyenberg from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u401	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for their answer on a tax plan which does a number of very nice things: the CO levy for industry, the approach to tax avoidance and not lowering the top rate of corporation tax. There are also many more specific measures. The transfer tax for starters disappears and there will be a higher tax for people with multiple homes. I also mention the one-off rent reduction Act and the agreements that have been made with the colleagues of GroenLinks and the Labour Party. It's a nice tax plan. I thank the rulers for the answer, including the two who are no longer present, and also all the employees of the ministry who have made not only these laws in recent months, but also the endless questions we have asked about them. That thanks also goes to all of us, because this is a monk's work for many. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first one is about the education I've been talking about before. There is a very nice measure for this in this Tax Plan, but as far as I am concerned, that is not the end. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that training is one of the most important tools for getting and keeping people at work;]] [[noting that this challenge is even greater now that there is a deficit in some sectors and a surplus of labour supply in others;]] [[Whereas it is therefore important that individual learning accounts should be able to be taken to new employers without tax obstacles;]] [[noting that the STEP Registry will enter into force on 1 January 2022;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare the application of the training exemption for training in the STEP register as far as possible before 1 January 2022 so that the training exemption for individual learning accounts can also be used by a new employer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35572-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u402	Mr. Chairman. The second motion has already been announced by Mr Snels. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the Netherlands capital inequality is increasing and is greater than income inequality;]] [[Whereas the degree of capacity inequality is of great economic and social relevance;]] [[Whereas the impact on capacity inequality is not systematically taken into account in making (tax) policies;]] [[calls on the government to take a standard look at the impact on wealth inequality in the (fiscal) policy preparation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Snels and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35572-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u403	Finally. We have a law with a number of practical improvements on the supplement system, but the real solution is another system, which, as far as I am concerned, replaces the supplements with a negative income tax, which ensures that we provide better living security to the people who need our financial support, while also increasing the minimum wage and making the supplement system disappear. That is the hope I express for formation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u404	Thank you. You'll take an advance on the formation. We're gonna take that with us. We are going to listen to Mr Nijboer from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u405	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to begin by congratulating Secretary of State Vijlbrief on his position on the candidate list for D66. I always like it when rulers are also willing, no, to have the ambition to take their place in the highest democratic body in this country. I welcome that, and I think that is a very good thing. It's nice that he's on that list. I can honestly tell from this Tax Plan how much fun he is having in this new craft for him, the Hague politics. Mr. Chairman. We've had a nice debate lately. One of the biggest plans of this cabinet with taxation continues to be to reduce the tax burden on large companies. First there was the dividend tax, which the General Reviews went over twice. That plan had to be withdrawn. Then there was the reduction in the tax on profits, which has been postponed for a year and which has now been adjusted. It has now been replaced by the BIK. Well, one is even more ineffective than the other. One helps even less than the other. And it's all unnecessary anyway. We have heard scientists say that and the CPB and its own officials and almost the entire opposition, except part of the real right flank. I also count the PVV on that, but I have heard them critically about the BIK in this area. I made an offer to the Secretary of State and the Cabinet to vote in favour of the Tax Plan if they took out that BIK. That's what I think, too. The Council of State also says so, and Minister Hoekstra once tabled a motion on this: if these laws are really separate from each other, then the parliament and the First Chamber can also make their own assessment. The Secretary of State insists on forced tying. That makes it hard for us to vote in favour of this Tax Plan. We will decide that tomorrow. You will see what we will vote tomorrow. But it's a deliberate choice on the part of the Secretary of State not to take it out. He has a majority on the right to get that BIK through both chambers. We could have just voted against it. Now he's linking this to the Tax Plan. Then he'll have to see if he gets any support for that. That's a conscious choice. He perseveres in it. That's up to the cabinet. We will make our decision tomorrow. I have two motions in addition to the motion tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of me and Mr GroenLinks on the lack of capacity and the identification of its importance. I have two more directional motions, but something different. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas on the expenditure side of the national budget there are, in principle, delays in meeting the requirements of the own departmental budget;]] [[Whereas this is not the case on the revenue side, whereas taxes on income, pollution, wealth, consumption, etc. are relevant to the ratios in the tax mix;]] [[Whereas the present system is based on an implicit assessment of the impact of the tax system or on the ability of the tax authorities to cope with the disadvantages and disadvantages of the tax system in their own tax area;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether similar to the expenditure side, tax decisions between tax domains can also be made more systematically and explicitly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35572-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u406	That is indeed a motion for the financial spokesmen, but this may well matter. The next motion is actually from the same sheet a suit. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas regular tax proposals are made which have substantial effects on sectors in addition to the intended objective, such as the ATAD anti-tax avoidance measure on housing corporations;]] [[Whereas such effects are not always known in advance;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to identify relevant side-effects of tax measures and to argue why side-effects have been chosen or not to be offset,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35572-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u407	Mr. Chairman. That last motion is, of course, inspired by the box 3 tax which is now paying less on balance, because the wealthy actually pay less than before this Tax Plan. It's not that awful much, but it does happen a bit in the slipstream, especially with the housing corporations affected by the starter help measure. Actually, I think you should compensate for that in principle, if you can do that slightly, and at least argue why you don't. It would be good if this were to be done in future in tax plans. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u408	Thank you. Very good. Then Mr Bruins of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u409	Mr. Chairman. At the end of four days, a long treatment, but it is also a lot of money and a lot of legislative proposals, I would like to thank the directors and all the people behind it for the very good answer to most of the questions. In any case, the questions I have asked have been answered clearly. Thank you for that. I would also like to thank the cabinet for offering space to residential cooperatives that create living space for affordable living in social cohesion. It is very nice that this can be done in the low rate. It is also a good thing that my amendment has now been tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. 21 to part No. 44 has passed because, in addition to Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Dik-Faber, Mr Van Otterloo has now also signed along, for which thanks have been given to Chamber. In my first term, I have addressed in detail a surcharge-free tax system as the Christian Union sees it for itself and even several parties in this Chamber. I think that we need to prepare ourselves for this, so that it can be done quickly and in a good way and so that it can also be done. I had a motion in preparation for that. However, I have received a very clear commitment that is in line with the operative part that I was preparing, namely: calls on the government, in the run-up to the next cabinet period, to develop a clear implementation and implementation strategy for the transition from the current tax system to a non-tax system. In my view, both Secretary of State have simply promised to do this loud and clear, if I add their statements together. So I don't have to file that motion and go back to my place. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u410	You know your place. Very good. Thank you. Mr Van Raan from the Group of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u411	Thank you, Mr President. Our argument with the Tax Plan 2021 was, in particular, the observation that the whole budget should be dominated by the climate transition, the biodiversity and climate crisis and everything that is attached to it. This commitment should lead to a better and greener economy. As far as we are concerned, this does not include a CO levy, which we may not know what it is doing until 2024. We have tabled an amendment to that effect in order at least to improve it. We're gonna see how that gets voted on. I have three motions, which I'm about to read. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is threatening to meet important climate targets, including the Urgenda target;]] [[noting that the current proposal for a CO-tax applies only to industry and only to the so-called avoidable emissions;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for introducing a flat, uniform CO levy that could apply to the full emissions of all types of greenhouse gases in all economic sectors and to inform the Chamber of Commerce before the summer of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Raan, Snels and Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35572-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u412	The second motion concerns the climate impact of tax measures. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is at risk of failing to meet all major climate objectives;]] [[noting that there is an integrated regulatory and regulatory framework;]] [[noting that there is no assessment of the impact on climate targets;]] [[Whereas it is possible to adopt tax measures which are good for both employment and climate;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine how the review of tax laws and regulations can take shape in the context of the comprehensive balancing framework, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35572-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u413	Then the final motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that despite the cabinet commitment, the production of new plastics continues to grow;]] [[noting that the production of new plastics contributes to climate change and environmental pollution;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for a national levy on new plastic (and/or plastics with a too small percentage of recycling) and to report to the Court before the summer of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35572-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u414	I should like to thank you for answering all the questions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u415	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Van Otterloo of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u416	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the four leaders we have had in this discussion. In the context of a good indoor climate in this house, I have once again refused to table a motion in this second term, because we already have enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u417	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u418	It is also a question of us remaining a little overdoing ourselves, I shall say, in these last few weeks before Christmas. You're talking about a St. Martin's regime. I'm afraid the candies have passed me by. I can't find them. I can see glasses with a little bit in them. I am thinking, for example, of box 3, because there is a bit of a view of improving it. For the rest, it is mainly empty and disappointing that most people are dependent on further visits to the judge to get justice over the past few years. Mr Bruins has already indicated that I have endorsed the amendment on cooperatives and corporations. That has to do with the spread of opportunities, because I had submitted a few at this point. I regret that the discussion on state aid is being interpreted so rigorously by this cabinet that there is no room for further consideration. But if there is room for at least the cheapest forms of housing cooperatives, that is a small point of light. That little point of light also applies to the bpm, I must say. When I raised the issue in a question in the technical briefing last year with the Tax Administration, there was a very glassy look and it could not be imagined that the bpm went up. Fortunately, we have now come to the conclusion that there is indeed a problem with the method and that, if we want to green these small cars, we must make them cheap and not make them more expensive than is necessary. In that respect too, there is some hope on the horizon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u419	Thank you. By the way, we used to sing with Sint-Maarten: here lives a rich man who can give a lot. Sint-Maarten was therefore also in favour of a progressive tax system, let me say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u420	Yeah, but I already told you we're not talking about throwing this, we're talking about raking inside. There are the people who receive it and we are ultimately the ones who give it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u421	Very good. Thank you. Mr Stoffer of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for the closure of this deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u422	Mr. Chairman. You dare me to do it in a minute. That's not gonna work, but maybe in two. Four long and intensive days. A lot of promises, I'm not going to repeat them all. In any case, I like the fact that there is a firm commitment around the gap between one and two-earners that all the problems I have raised here will be taken into account in the Draagkracht Committee. Nevertheless, families are not going to feel that next year in their wallet and perhaps not yet the following year. That's why two motions to try to get families to put some euros in their pockets. The first reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the difference in the tax burden between one and two earners has increased significantly in recent years;]] [[noting that for a household income of €40,000 next year, a earner pays seven times as much tax as two-earners;]] [[Whereas it is desirable that the gap in the tax burden between one and two earners should be reduced;]] [[having noted that since 2009, the transferable general tax rebate for the least-earning partner has been phased out, which means that in 2021 only 13.3% of the overall tax rebate can be transferred;]] [[Whereas this measure widens the gap in the tax burden between one and two-earners;]] [[calls on the government to freeze the portability of the general tax rebate from next year on the current 20% rate, seeking cover in reducing the high-income childcare allowance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35572-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u423	In line with that: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is proposed to reduce the income-dependent combination discount (IACK) by €113 in 2021 and to increase by €77 in 2022;]] [[having noted that income groups with a total income from around €60,000 in particular are affected;]] [[Whereas these limited adjustments to the IACK have little effect on labour supply;]] [[Whereas it is desirable to provide financial support to families with children in low and middle income groups;]] [[Whereas a reduction in the IACK and an increase in the child-related budget have many positive effects, such as a reduction in the tax gap between earners and two-earners and an improvement in the purchasing power of low and middleincomes and families with children;]] [[calls on the Government not to continue the proposed increase in the IACK in 2022 and to use the budget released for an increase in the child-related budget in 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35572-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u424	Mr. Chairman. The ODE tax is a bone in my throat. I would have thought that the outline of the compensation plan of two times 25 million would come to the Chamber. That was a commitment from Minister Wiebes. I haven't seen it yet, but maybe it's still on November 11th. It's not too late. Nevertheless, I have a motion to do something about it, in addition to the amendment we have already tabled. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the EUR 50 million compensation for the increase in the ODE levy for greenhouse horticulture, chemicals and the paper and food industries is far from sufficient to compensate for the financial damage;]] [[Considering that the significant increase in the ODE levy on electricity consumption slows down the desired electrification and penalises precursors rather than stimulates them;]] [[calls on the Government to increase the budget for the said compensation scheme under the renewable energy budget reserve as long as the ODE rates are not reduced,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35572-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u425	It remains for me to thank the cabinet for the four days it has listened to us and answered our questions. We look forward to tomorrow's votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u426	I call Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u427	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you for the answers. It was extremely enjoyable and complete. Sometimes it's different. Great respect also for the officials who have had to prepare all this. The box 3 review is still disastrous for entrepreneurs who have to build their own pensions. We remain of the opinion that the Supreme Court is probably going to cut this off again. Taxing the actual return remains our preference. Furthermore, the BIK is a bureaucratic vehicle and unfortunately the money does not always end up with the companies that need it most. But fair is fair, it's better than nothing. Forum for Democracy is not only the party for entrepreneurs, but now also the party for car drivers. As far as we are concerned, both ownership and use of the car will be cheaper. It is therefore somewhat painful that this section was not dealt with separately. The Secretary of State has indicated that he himself is very unhappy with the system of car taxes. I assume that there will be a good plan to simplify the taxation of cars. It would be nice if that were aligned with the sector. Then I have a few more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are 21 types of taxation and 4 types of excise duty;]] [[Whereas it is not clear what the collection costs are by type of tax;]] [[Whereas it is important to know the relationship between collection costs and revenues in order to assess the efficiency of a type of tax;]] [[calls on the Government to provide an overview of collection costs and revenues for the different types of taxes and excise duties,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current box 3 scheme is based on a fictitious return;]] [[Whereas this arrangement may be unfair;]] [[Whereas the Supreme Court considered that, in the event of a loss due to the current Box 3 regime, there was a breach of the right of ownership;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether and how taxable persons can be allowed to opt for a tax based on the actual return,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, from 2019 onwards, the Hills Act will be phased out in steps of 3.33% per year over a period of 30 years;]] [[Whereas it is unclear what its effects will be;]] [[calls on the government to examine the impact on the various groups in society, and to report the results to the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the tax burden on vehicles, both business and private, varies in several ways, such as tax type, weight, purchase value, contribution to CO emissions and use;]] [[noting that this year, without the corona crisis, passenger and van cars would raise 17 billion in taxes;]] [[Whereas, despite or thanks to the many measures, the fleet in the Netherlands is among the most polluting in Western Europe;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with a plan of action in the short term to significantly simplify the taxation of cars,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Tax Plan 2021 includes an amendment of several laws;]] [[Whereas some of these changes are not clear in the long term;]] [[invites the Government to review any changes to the legislation within two years of its entry into force and to share the results with the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35572-69]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35572-70]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35572-71]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35572-72]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35572-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u428	That's it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u429	Thank you. So much for the Chamber's term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-11.u430	I'm gonna suspend for a minute; then we're gonna do the VAO on mink breeding. Next, Deo volente, the second term of the government. Then we're gonna listen to both Secretary of State.
