ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposed relocation of the Marine Station in Doorn. There is a great deal of interest in this debate. A lot of people have come from Zeeland to the House of Representatives. The public gallery is full. You're very welcome. It is a subject that affects many people in Zeeland, so I also understand very well that you sometimes have emotions in the contribution of MPs or the government. Still, it is common to try to be a little careful with it to express those emotions. Those are kind of the rules in this house. The interest is so great that there are also people who are following this debate below. We have made arrangements so that they are also aware of what is happening here in the plenary. I would also like to welcome the Secretary of State for Defence. We shall begin the debate with the first speaker. That's Mrs Diks on behalf of GroenLinks. Speaking time is four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With a view of the harbor, with a foot on the ka, the planned move from the marine barracks to Vlissingen is still capsized. The barracks which for administrative reasons had to and would come to Zeeland. This while for a long time it was clear that the conditions for practicing there would be insufficient and the barracks would not fit for purpose. Two years ago, GroenLinks warned that the relocation project would lead to an empty Marine Corps and sky-high costs. We, like others, repeatedly asked written questions, asked time and time again about the high outflow in the corps and asked the Secretary of State to reconsider this project. But the Secretary of State continued to insist: straight as it goes, we're holding course. And here we are. The move to Vlissingen is definitely off. Mr. Chairman. It is good that at last there is clarity for the marines, their families and the municipalities and provinces concerned. But by now, we know that in the past year, the Defense Department has investigated extensively alternatives and held confidential consultations with the municipality of Apeldoorn about a move to Nieuw-Miligen. In doing so, the Zeeuwen were deliberately turned into a wheel by the Secretary of State. GroenLinks finds the administratively unbecoming, inappropriate and inappropriate that the Secretary of State for the Sea has kept the Zeeuws on an incredible leash all along. Did the Secretary of State not trust the province of Zeeland and the local government of Vlissingen enough to inform them early about its doubts about the proposed relocation of the Marine Firehouse? What possessed the Secretary of State to organize such an administrative front towards Zeeland? Can the Secretary of State reflect on the fact that she has caused unnecessary damage to confidence between Zeeland and Defense by leaving the Zeeland in the dark for so long about what Defense was actually doing and at the same time in Zeeland proclaiming that everything "reg sal comes"? Can the Secretary of State indicate to the Chamber when she actually started the search for alternative locations? And can the Secretary of State indicate to us what on earth has motivated her to do so in secret rather than simply publicly stating two years ago that a review of the relocation plans was necessary and then, with open vision, to enter into consultation with the relevant municipalities and provinces? Mr. Chairman. The move of the barracks was intended to compensate the Zeeuwen for the services already left. They were promised economic activity. Although GroenLinks strongly disagreed with how the decision to move the barracks was made, the motivation to realise economic activity in Zeeland was of course legitimate. Much government activity has disappeared from Zeeland in the last two decades. An excessive concentration of public services in the Randstad only leads to an overcrowded Randstad and the disappearance of wealth and facilities in other provinces. A more proportionate distribution of activities across the Netherlands is therefore very justified. In short, President, Zeeland deserves serious compensation, especially after this administrative debacle. I may repeat too often today that GroenLinks saw all this coming years ago. That is why I am all the more surprised that the Secretary of State apparently still has to start thinking about compensation. How is that possible? Isn't that the first thing you think of when you want to make a decision? It is very important for my group to implement a good package of compensation measures, a package of financial compensation and attractive provisions. In this context, I would like to remind you that last year I proposed setting up a multidisciplinary complex for public services instead of the Marine Firehouse in Vlissingen. This should not be confined to defence, because it is very important for Zeeland that more young people continue to work and live in the province. Mr. Chairman. Zeeland currently has no Master of Science programmes. It is a long-cherished Zeeland desire to set up a Delta Institute for training with, for example, a thematic focus on climate adaptation, blue energy and wind at sea. A better O.V. connection from the Randstad to Zeeland could also make the province more attractive for young people. Mr. Chairman. After all this administrative messing up, I understand that the Secretary of State will not go through this consultation himself, but through an envoy. In any case, a compensation package will have to be agreed in good consultation with the Zeeuws. Zeeland's trust, chairman, has suffered serious damage. The Secretary of State will have to pull everything out of the closet in the coming period in order to restore this to some degree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mrs Diks. I now give the floor to Mr Kerstens on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Three weeks ago, Defense itself called it no more than a rumor, two weeks ago it was suddenly a dilemma and last week the monkey came out of the sleeve: the Marine barracks does not come to Vlissingen. Defence itself knew that for months, but partner, contract partner and co-government Zeeland knew nothing about it. What an incredibly bad movie in which horribly miserable is performed. Good thing we're having a debate today with the lead player, the Secretary of State. Also because it isn't the first time that the Defense Department has made a mistake in dealing with other governments, with residents in the region. That seems to me to be more of a rule than an exception. The low-fly route above East and North Netherlands, which caused a lot of commotion last week, a new radar tower that had to come into the Gelderse Herwijnen at all costs, despite all the objections, because New Milligen was not an option. I think now I understand why. The fuss around the airport base in Gilze-Rijen. And each time I wonder whether there is a conscious strategy or a chain of blunders and clutters. Because sometimes that looks the same on the outside. This time it is clear: there has been a conscious strategy. By the way, in combination with a series of blunders, that is. While Defense has been working on another location for some time Zeeland hasn't been told anything, Zeeland has been left in the dark, even more so, Zeeland has been led to believe that that barracks would just get there. Until last week, there were people from Defence in Zeeland talking to Zeeland about adjustments on the site where the barracks would come. Until last week, Mr. Chairman. Zeeland has been deliberately fooled. Yes, in love and war everything may be allowed and in a banana republic there is also something for it, but here in the Netherlands we don't hang out like that, you might think. Mr. Chairman. The feelings in Zeeland are bitter and the words are harsh: a military coupe, a secret operation behind our backs, unheard of and unheard of governance, our trust is ashamed, we are bullied, we are furious. And I get that. I can't come up with any other words myself as soon as possible, and at least I can't think of any more neat words. How Zeeland has been dealt with, defies every description and has undermined the confidence of Zeeland in the Secretary of State, in Defence, in the Cabinet and in The Hague. And here in The Hague of the Chamber in the Secretary of State. And especially of the people, not only in Zeeland but throughout the country, in politics and government. And I get that, too, because it's not the first time. Mr. Chairman. Of course, I have a number of questions for the Secretary of State. How does she look at her role? Why did she fool Zeeland? Didn't she trust the Zeeuws? And does she understand that Zeeland no longer trusts her? How is she ever gonna regain that trust? Or does she think: it might have been a good cabinet decision to stop me from facing the Zeeuws after tomorrow? How does the Secretary of State look at her role towards the House of Representatives? How does she look at her role as a regiment who has also been appointed to change precisely the culture of secrecy, of being as little transparent as possible, which characterizes the Defense Department? Does it still see itself playing that role credible in the future? Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State is now talking about two planned decisions not to build the barracks in Vlissingen and to come to compensation. But of course it cannot be that the move will not take place without proper compensation for Zeeland. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? And does she understand that this compensation can not only consist of the cold maths we have seen in the Defense Department's pieces, but also the role she has played has a prize? Finally, Mr President. Zeeland's angry. You said it. The public gallery is full today and TV screens have been added elsewhere in the building in order to allow people to follow this debate. What does the Secretary of State say today to the people of Zeeland, who first looked them in the eyes and didn't tell the truth? What does she say to the people of Zeeland, who are now facing them again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Mr. Christmas. I now give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u6	Deception. A secret military operation. It feels like betrayal. They are furious reactions from Zeeland politicians and public opinion to last week's decision not to build the Marine Firehouse in Vlissingen. The decision to destroy the contract with Vlissingen was accompanied by a detailed proposal to move the marine barracks to New Milligen. The latter decision was prepared and worked out in silence for months without the Zeeland contracting partners, the municipality and the province being aware of it. They assumed that the contract that had been concluded with the Ministry years ago was just valid, although of course they also saw the criticism. Mr. Chairman. To this day, dozens of officials in Zeeland are working on the implementation and realization of the Marine Firehouse in Vlissingen. I've spoken to a lot of Zeeuws in the last few days. I couldn't believe it. I said, "Didn't you at any time report that this was being investigated?" The answer was unisono no. How is that possible? How is that possible? Many wonder why the Secretary of State made the decision to establish the Marine Firehouse in Nieuw-Miligen in this secret manner. Why is the Secretary of State acting like this? Why did the Secretary of State withhold information and lie to the Zeeland politicians, who wanted to know if there were any other developments? The Secretary of State, supported by the Minister of Defence and the Cabinet, has given the Zeeuws a rotten trick. The people in the Netherlands, in different regions, are now used to the fact that there are bad things being done by the cabinet and that promises are being broken, but this is also a completely different layer of government. The municipal and provincial authorities have done a trick. It is a very important part of our state system. This practice nourishes mistrust, brings cynicism and weakens the region, in this case the Zeeland region. Does the Secretary of State recognize this? The Ministry of Defence is, as we all know, spending billions on arms. A new radar system must be installed in Herwijnen, there is the purchase of the JSF et cetera. This requires a lot of space, space that is often scarce. That is what society needs. For this, the Secretary of State for Municipal Government, the province, us, needs the whole of the Netherlands. But over and over again, the Secretary of State seems to forget that. Not only does it need the support of the population, but it also needs the support of municipalities and provincial authorities. What does the Secretary of State think they're learning from this whole situation? That the government is unreliable. That promises have no meaning, especially if contracts concluded do not. It's a blunt way of driving. It's not normal. It can't be digested. It's inappropriate. Mr. Chairman. The second part of last Friday's decision does not make it any better. Vlissingen and Zeeland are promised a compensation scheme. But as smooth and sneaky as the move to New Milligen was arranged, so imperfect and insufficient this point is settled. A special envoy will be appointed for this purpose. A special envoy, like it's war and we have to make peace. It is not clear what that envoy will receive in terms of mandate. It is already quite unclear what the agreement with the Special Envoy will be worth. If an eight-year-old contract for a big project, a barracks, turns out to be worthless, what is the value of compensation agreements in eight years' time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. I now give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u8	Madam President. In 50 days it will be eight years since CDA Minister Hillen made the decision that the Navy barracks would go to Vlissingen. In June 2012, the Chamber made the decision that the cabinet should proceed with the work. Now, eight years later, it appears that nothing has actually happened here in The Hague and Zeeland is empty-handed. Yeah, with just a study of alternatives that Zeeland didn't know about. Mr. Chairman. I may not be a Zeeuw, but I too would feel pretty screwed. That's not how we treat each other. With Zeeland, the CDA Group is outraged at the way things are going around the Marine Station in Vlissingen. The CDA understands that the confidence of the province of Zeeland in the government is far from lost. It is the duty of the Cabinet to restore this quickly. The well-being, prosperity and position of Zeeland on one side and a good marine barracks that meets the requirements for the future on the other side are both important. The cabinet will therefore have to come up with a solution. The future and importance of the inhabitants of the region, of the province of Zeeland, must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u9	I am standing here so quickly because I actually wanted to know as soon as possible from Mr Van Helvert of the CDA Group whether what is in the newspaper is true, namely that you were informed on 16 January and agreed to the proposed decision of the Secretary of State not to build the Marine Firehouse in Vlissingen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u10	It is common for us as a coalition to be confidentially informed of events. And that's information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u11	That's obvious. So you were informed and you agreed to this. May I ask if you had any knowledge of the documents that the government sent us and the Zeeuws last Friday?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u12	The answer to that last point is no. And we don't agree to it in the coalition talks either. We do so in response to the decisions of the cabinet in the Chamber, when the Chamber is in motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u13	Finally, may I ask you for an appreciation of this whole process? For months, this decision was secretly, secretly, prepared and there was an alternative location, while the Zeeuws were told nothing, while they were told nothing was going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u14	But that's exactly what I was doing when Mrs Karabulut interrupted me. I said it was eight years from now that the decision was taken in 50 days. The Chamber also said in 2012: that is a good decision; get on with the work. Eight years later, Zeeland is empty-handed. I told him I'd feel cheated, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u15	Mr Van Helvert says: I understand the Zeeuws; they feel deceived. But I hear through the questions of my colleague Karabulut confirmation that you knew about this deception before, that you have done nothing and that the Zeeuws have not, in some ways, informed us. So you've been more or less involved. How do you feel that you have more or less participated in something that you yourself have declared to be a fraud?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u16	As a representative of the people, I often have confidential conversations, sometimes with citizens, sometimes with institutions, sometimes with companies. I sometimes have confidential conversations with rulers. I'd like that, too, because sometimes it's necessary to have information. In case of events, it is often the case that you will be briefly informed or asked for information. That's different from consenting, but that's getting information confidentially. So if it's confidential, that means it's confidential. So I can't talk to anyone else about that. I can do that once. After that, I'll never get another chance to get confidential information, and then I'll never be able to act on it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mr Van Helvert talks about trust. The confidence of a province has been compromised. Vlissingen's trust has been compromised. The trust of the cabinet has been compromised. The trust of the Chamber has been compromised. And now you're working on yourself? Do you say: my personal interest, that I get information, is more important than the whole confidence in politics? Is that what you're saying here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u18	Of course I didn't say that. With regard to confidence, I have just said that it has been eight years since the decision was taken and that Zeeland is still empty-handed. There's just an investigation they didn't even know about. Even though I'm not a Zeeuw, I'd feel like I'm being fooled. So we are on that side together, because I understand that Mr Öztürk is in the same position. I don't think anyone in this Chamber has the patent to the anger about that. We're all very angry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u19	Finally. It has nothing to do with patenting anger. A secretary of state goes to the coalition spokesmen's wrists. The point is that you kind of gave the signal of, okay. Then she's gonna take a step further, which she would never do otherwise. And now you come up with the story that we have to give money to put Zeeland's trust, which we have broken, right. You just want to buy it off. You just want to buy off the broken faith in politics with money. You want to buy it off with community money. That's why I'm asking you again. When you received that information, did you share that information with others, i.e. CDAs within the province of Zeeland or within your own party, or did you keep that information to yourself alone?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u20	Confidential is confidential, and I've just explained how I deal with it. For the rest, Mr Öztürk made a number of assumptions in which I do not recognize myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u21	Mr Van Helvert began his speech with a look back in time. It has been a number of CDA-headpieces that contributed to the decision to move the barracks to Vlissingen. Now I'm in an opposition party. If I'm gonna get something done, I always have to get at least one coalition party to get a majority. The other way around, if one coalition party doesn't participate, a plan doesn't go through. You're not a Zeeuw, but you're very sympathetic to the Zeeuws. Why didn't you put your fist on the table when this announcement came? Why didn't you say we're not gonna do this, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u22	Of course, I can't say anything about the conversation I had there, because that was confidential. But the decision of then CDA Minister Hillen was actually a very good decision, Chamberwide. There were parties who did not agree, but "the Chamber" thought it was a good decision and "the Chamber" also said in 2012: get on with your work. Even when the Court of Auditors came forward in that year, 2012, with an extremely critical report on the decision-making of that barracks, on that political decision, the Chamber said: we are going to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u23	That is all true and I think that makes my question even more logical. Because now it is not the Chamber that is moving in a different direction, but the Cabinet. It is, when I listen to it this way, also the CDA that is moving in a different direction, despite the history with a number of CDA-coryfees, despite the fact that Mr Van Helvert, who is not a Zeeuw himself, sympathizes with the Zeeuws and despite the fact that he also thinks Zeeland is being fooled. Wouldn't it have been much simpler, precisely because of what Mr Van Helvert just said, to bang on the table as a CDA and say: we're not going to do this; we agreed that that barracks is going to Zeeland so he's going to Zeeland?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u24	The CDA liked that barracks to go to Vlissingen, because we were happy with that decision. A large majority of the Chamber also welcomed that decision. That's a political decision. The cabinet has now made a decision in which it says: for the sake of three aspects of the barracks, we are not going to do so. The Secretary of State is clear about that. She says: "First of all, a well-stocked and deployable Marine Corps is important for the Netherlands, especially in view of the current global and national security situation. In addition, the realisation of a fit-for-purpose firehouse that meets the operational need is important. Finally, finance also plays a role." And in 2012 the Chamber itself asked for this, by adopting a motion stating that the costs should not get out of hand. For these reasons, therefore, the cabinet has taken this decision. The CDA regrets this, but the CDA also attaches importance to saying that there are two sides to this story. That is separate from the procedure, which has gone completely wrong. That's completely unrelated, but there are two sides to this medal. One is the importance of Zeeland, the Zeeland and Vlissingen. But two is the Marine Corps. Those two are important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u25	Rounding up. Quite apart from the fact that I think that this little joke could be much more financially expensive than the move to Zeeland, I hear Mr Van Helvert actually say that the CDA actually agrees with the Secretary of State for substantive reasons, but that she should have just done something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u26	The CDA liked to see that barracks go to Vlissingen. But I also see the decision taken by the cabinet. I also see the underlying pieces, namely that it considered a good Marine Corps very important. I heard the Labour Party say that a moment ago. That is independent of the question of whether or not the certainty we have is that the process on this matter has gone terribly badly, and the Zeeuws feel rightfully deceived.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u27	I'd like to go on with this. I would also like to say a few words about the fact that you said a few times: I am not a Zeeuw, but I would also feel betrayed. I don't think you need to be a Zeeuw to see that this administrative process hasn't touched anything. You even indicated that, in my view. I don't think it has much to do with being in the Zeeuw that you condemn this. The question I still have to ask you concerns something that you have also mentioned a few times. You say that the decision taken at the time by Minister Hillen, the cabinet, was actually quite a good decision. So it's fine that that's how it happened back then. A motion was also tabled in 2011 not to move to Vlissingen, but it was then rejected. Afterwards, can you reflect on the way in which Minister Hillen set this up at the time? Because we do not really escape the idea of qualifying this decision at the time as an administrative handshake.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u28	I don't think so, because the Chamber thought it was a good decision. If Mrs Diks had described it after eight years, looking back, the Chamber would of course never have accepted it by majority. It's a political decision, though. That's different from calculating a business case and seeing what's the cheapest option. Because if we do that, we just have to put everything we do here in Utrecht, in the middle, because that's central for everyone. In this sense, I cannot underline the qualification given by Mrs Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u29	But I still have a question, through you, President, to Mr Van Helvert. I am therefore very curious to see how you look at the fact that, as we have already understood from previous publications and also from the wording of Minister Hillen in public, the business case submitted by the then non-existent municipality of Utrechtse Heuvelrug has not even been looked at by the then Minister of Defence. It's actually been pushed aside or thrown right into the trash. I do not know exactly how that went, but at least it has been put aside and that business case has not actually been part of the decision-making process. You do not consider that to be a good and careful administrative process, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u30	Not only does the latter find Mrs Diks, but that is also what the Court of Auditors' 2012 report says. In 2012, the Court investigated the decision to move the Marine Firehouse to Vlissingen. The Court of Auditors makes it very clear that the alternatives have not been examined, which would actually have been better. The Court of Auditors' report also says that it is financially risky. Despite that report from 2012, the Chamber says: good decision, continue and even work out quickly! When the Chamber says that in 2012, I find it strange that nothing has happened all these years. I note that the previous speakers have spoken mainly about the last six months, but nothing has actually happened for eight years. I think that's a very strange thing to do. As a result, if the Secretary of State picks it up eight years later, it is in principle good that the hot potato is picked up, it appears that the circumstances under which the decision was taken in 2012 were very different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u31	Rounding up. The situation has indeed changed a lot. I very much agree with you. That has also been seen with each other. I have one more question for you. You say that, despite the fact that the report of the municipality of Utrechtse Heuvelrug at the time was still in the process of being adopted, I shall say that it was not properly considered whether it was at all part of the decision-making process and, despite the fact that the underlying documents may not have been discussed sufficiently or hardly, the decision was taken and that it is therefore a good decision. So the question I have to ask you is: do you really think it is logical that we always take political decisions on matters relating to Defence, perhaps ignoring the input that Defence itself has provided? At the time there were also doubts about the proposed move to Vlissingen. That was clear at the time. That is why I referred for a moment to the administrative touch, which is not based on the actual, underlying information but rather on administrative connections that would be present. This may have led to the wrong decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u32	Once again, I would not like to give that qualification, because a majority of the Chamber has said: this is very good; proceed with the work. The decision taken by the Minister at the time was indeed a political decision. It is true that a politician can make decisions. It would also be nice if politicians or directors only decided what civil servants or employees would advise. Then you don't need politicians. Then all we have to do is ask civil servants to calculate the cheapest or best, and then we do that. So I do not think that we should stop drivers from making political decisions. What we must do, even as a chamber itself, is this. If we adopt a motion in 2012 with the message "what a good decision, Minister, take a firm stand" and then nothing happens for eight years, then we must look at the cabinet, but also ourselves. 'Cause then why don't we do it? Because if you wait eight years with a decision that was based on other advice, you almost ask for opposition to organise itself. This is allowed in the Netherlands, but you must not fail to do your own homework. I don't think that has happened in the course of those eight years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u33	At the time, the SGP fully supported the CDA and Minister Hillen in the relocation of that marine barracks to Vlissingen, because that was also a fair compensation for all those jobs of state services that had gone away in the years before had been removed from Zeeland. Now I hear Mr Van Helvert say that a lot has indeed gone wrong in the process, but that the content of the decision is correct. Is that right? Do I understand him that well? The process was actually wrong, but the decision now is right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u34	Mr Van der Staaij says a number of things. First of all, he says that the Marines' barracks were compensation. I do not agree with Mr Van der Staaij. The Marines aren't compensation, and neither is the barracks. That marine barracks was placed there because it was by the sea, and also because there would be room for it in Zeeland. That was the underlying decision. In retrospect, and perhaps also before that decision, a number of other ministries have taken the liberty to place or not place services there, or to remove them, with indeed that argument. But that argument has been used by other ministries, not the Ministry of Defence. I'm actually just at the beginning of my own speech, so I'll get back to you in my story. But that is why it is important that the entire cabinet, and not just the Secretary of State for Defence, should take responsibility for the planned decision that lies ahead. The compensation must of course consist not only of money, but also of strengthening the social and economic structure. Because that's what Zeeland really needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u35	Sure. It is true that at the time I was in those debates on this subject, it was also an explicit argument that it was really time for the cabinet to make a strong effort to get jobs back in Zeeland in the field of state services. Well, that did play out. But if the CDA was just like that, and has always said that it was very good that this was going to happen, why did it go through the pump so fast, when there hasn't been a proper process?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u36	Let me also take a look at what the SGP itself said about it last year. Then the SGP itself wrote in the newspaper that it might actually be better to just stay in Doorn or get another location. In that sense, I do not think it is right for each other to take the measure of who first said 'no, not anyway' or who went through the pump the fastest, as you say. 'Cause that's nobody. With the SGP and a lot of other colleagues here, the CDA wanted that barracks to go to Vlissingen. We are now faced with this decision by the cabinet eight years later. For the sake of the Marine Corps, I have just mentioned the three points that the Secretary of State has also put very clearly in the document, and because the situation has changed, this cannot continue. The CDA is very sorry about that and I am not talking about the procedure of how it went down. It is now a matter of content. I shall come back to that in the course of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u37	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u38	The SGP has always said clearly that we want justice to be done to the feelings of marines, but we never said: "Don't go through with it." In fact, it has been lacking in an open process to discuss these financial consequences, for example. The CDA is also the party that says that defence spending should go up in the future and that we should go up to 2%. Why suddenly, on the basis of financial arguments, let it stop? If Mr Van Helvert says here on behalf of the CDA Group that nothing has happened for eight years, then my question is: have you been sleeping? Because things have happened. Management agreements and lease agreements have been concluded. Roads have been built. We've been talking about practice areas. So there's been a lot of things going on. So how can you say that nothing has happened if so many steps have been taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u39	E things have been drawn and done, but after eight years there is still no marine barracks. That's the case. It should've just been there. The decision was taken in 2012. You can say that much has happened, but far too little has happened in The Hague. You yourself supported the 2012 motion that called for speedy work. So if you ask me if we have been sleeping, perhaps we in the Chamber have done too little. In the end, we have adopted a motion here that called for speedy work and then we have allowed all of us, as we are sitting here, that there is still nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u40	Mr Van Helvert's words are a bit wrong with me. I've been looking into what's happened over the past eight years. The Chamber has spoken eight times about the marine barracks, of which the SGP only once considered it important enough to come and record it for the process in question. You say all the time that it is as if the Chamber has been sleeping all the time, as if the whole Chamber had agreed to it. But you know that since 2012, several political parties, including mine, have pointed out reports from the Court of Auditors but also other internal reports that said: be alert, be critical if you drag this decision through? Do you agree with me that there has been a certain coalition in the House of Representatives who has said that they want the coûte que coûte to continue and that there have been a lot of political parties who have remained critical then and over the past eight years and have asked about all the problems that are now on the table of this Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u41	Yeah, I totally agree with D66. That's absolutely true. When I speak of the Chamber's decision, it is taken by majority. There have certainly always been critical noises. If I say that nothing has been done, it does not mean that no one has asked questions or that no reports have come up. All this has been asked for, but at the end of the day something has not happened here in The Hague to the extent that it has led to progress on the naval station. That's what I wanted to say. Mrs Belhaj is quite right that D66 has actually been very critical from the outset or perhaps even negative about the fact that that barracks would go there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u42	I suggest you continue with your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In every part of the Netherlands, the government has to work with local authorities on matters that matter: economy, infrastructure and quality of life, education, care and living. And so is Zeeland. The cabinet has now decided that there will be a special advisor. That special adviser of the cabinet is going to open the conversation between Zeeland and the cabinet, and that is a good thing in itself. For the CDA, it is clear that the municipality of Vlissingen and the province of Zeeland must be generously compensated. So it is not just about money; it is also about strengthening the social and economic structure in the province. This leads to sustainable development. After all, in view of the decision of the coming of the barracks to Vlissingen, we have just discussed this in the interrupting debate, other ministries have taken the liberty of removing or not placing public services in Zeeland. Because of the new planned decision, the Zeeuwen feel abandoned by the government. I'm really sorry about that. I also have members from Zeeland in my group. They are very sorry, but all the members of the group are very sorry that the Zeeuws not only feel so abandoned, but they too, precisely because my group, because the CDA, the regions outside the Randstad, are of interest to them, is just as important as the Randstad. The least that should happen now is the organisation of compensation for Vlissingen, the compensation for the province of Zeeland. After all, without a good bid, we cannot work to restore trust between the Zeeuws and the government. Our group has the following questions to the Secretary of State. Can you take the Chamber again in the reason why the barracks cannot be placed in Vlissingen? Then you indicate that the special advisor will come with an advice for the summer. Do I therefore understand that the Chamber will also be informed of this opinion before the summer? I also ask the Secretary of State if I understand correctly that the opinion of the consultant will also be the proposal of the cabinet. Can you guarantee that the cabinet will put on the table the willingness of the consultant to respond generously to Zeeland in compensation? How does the entire cabinet guard that the pressure from the entire cabinet to deliver the compensation remains on the kettle?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u44	We have just found that the CDA group, the spokesmen and other coalition groups were informed on 16 January of the proposed decision by the Secretary of State and the Minister. My follow-up question would be: when were you informed that alternative locations were in the picture?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u45	I was not informed of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u46	Were you aware when you were informed, at that time or before, that at least the province of Zeeland and the municipality of Vlissingen were not informed that there was an investigation, that there was an alternative? Were you aware of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u47	I've been a spokesperson for six months now. I had a visit with the Zeeland drivers, for a conversation about the barracks in Vlissingen, just after I became a spokesperson. Then Zeeland's board was still in full conviction that the Marine Firehouse would go to Vlissingen, as for us as Chamber the only decision that existed then, was 2012, that the Marine Firehouse would go to Vlissingen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u48	But that wasn't my question. When you were informed on 16 January of the decision that did not seem politically problematic at the time, to move the marine barracks not in Vlissingen but to Nieuw-Miligen, were you aware that Zeeland did not know this and that there was also an alternative location?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u49	Yeah, I knew Zeeland didn't know, 'cause I got those drivers. And the drivers weren't aware of the fact that alternatives were being sought, like I wasn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u50	My question to Mr Van Helvert is when Mr Van Helvert was informed by the cabinet that there was an alternative location.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u51	As I said at the beginning, as is often the case with decisions, we have been briefly informed in confidence. In that case, too. That was the middle of January. You mentioned the date.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u52	January 16th, then. And you didn't know about it before?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u53	No, I didn't know anything about it before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u54	We have just found that the CDA did not punch his fist on the table when it could, when it comes to not continuing the move from the barracks to Vlissingen. I would now like to talk to Mr Van Helvert about compensation. The Secretary of State has cut the decisions, the proposed decision on the relocation and the planned decision on compensation. Does the CDA agree with me that the first decision on this move cannot continue if there is no proper compensation in the eyes of the Zeeuws?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u55	First of all, Mr Kerstens's assumption is incorrect. He can't know that at all. I don't know why he says that. That will have a political purpose. But he doesn't know that. I said I can't say anything about that. The second is that the link between the intended decisions is that the Marine Station does not go to Vlissingen and that an advisor talks with the Cabinet and Zeeland to get out. For me, these two decisions are linked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u56	Mr Van Helvert is right: I was not there on 16 January. I'm not gonna ask him what happened there. My conclusion is that the fist was not hit on the table, I take it from the interruptions we just had. As far as compensation is concerned, I have indicated that the compensation must go a lot further than the cold calculations. The amounts were sometimes blacked out, which we saw in the documents we received from the Defense Department on Friday. They're based on how much has already been spent. Of course, it's not like nothing's happened in Zeeland. Millions have been spent by now. I have indicated that, as far as I am concerned, the way in which this process has been conducted, the way in which the Secretary of State has fulfilled her role, must also play an important role in determining compensation. That's got to have a price in that compensation, I think. Does the CDA agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u57	This is what I said about compensation. The group and I still support that. As a matter of fact, the municipality of Vlissingen and the province of Zeeland must be compensated generously. That's not just about money. This is also about strengthening the social and economic structure in the province.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u58	Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u59	Madam President. Nothing to the detriment of other provinces, but I know the Zeeuws as extremely thoughtful, constructive and loyal. If you get them as hot as they are now and if such a calm director as the Commissioner of the King Polman has expressed himself so indignantly, then as Secretary of State, you can really look in the mirror as a cabinet. What was agreed in 2012, which was worked on for years, where a lot of community money has been put in, that everything goes off, if it is up to the cabinet, by no means. After years of stalling and stretching, the 2012 deal is broken unilaterally. The agreement was to move the marine barracks to the city of Michiel de Ruyter and thus compensate for the removal of all kinds of services from Zeeland. Over the course of time more than 1,600 full-time jobs had disappeared by removing state services: the Land Registry, the Audit Service of Waren, the National Institute for Coastal and Sea, State Forest Management, the Private Tax Administration, the Public Prosecutor's Office. The whole cabinet said: indeed it is very good if such a barracks there is capable of doing well and the conclusion was that that could be done then it is very nice that this can create so many jobs for Zeeland. Now there's a line through it and we see angry Zeeuws. We taste genuine indignation, about betrayed trust, about sneaky discussions and decisions behind the backs of provincial governments, about a secluded approach. The SGP understands that anger. Not only that, we share that indignation. Zeeland's offended. The interests of the region are being undermined. Incorrect administration, that's what's going on here. Mr. Chairman. Let us be clear that our indignation does not, of course, focus on the fact that the interests of the marines are being carefully looked at. It's very easy not to let it go on in their shoes. We fully understand that. We also want to have an eye for their interests, but it is now about the way in which the cabinet has acted, how it has dealt with this. The legitimate interests of the Marine Corps are not a licence for administrative incompetence, and that's what we're seeing here. If you are already so far on your way, if so much cost has been incurred, then you cannot get away with tile wisdoms halfway around. What we blame this Secretary of State and this cabinet for is not being consulted with an open visor with Zeeland. It is told freezing cold that the marine barracks are not going to Zeeland, without compensation and without administrative agreement on alternatives that would provide an economic boost for Zeeland and create many jobs. This could have been really different and different. This is harmful, and this is outrageous. And then I'm not even talking about that strange choice for an envoy, now in the letter renamed advisor, who goes to Zeeland to see what the compensation will look like. Is this gonna start from scratch? That can't be true, can it? What has the cabinet itself thought about? Madam President. To sum up, a few specific questions to the Secretary of State to which I would like an answer. First of all, why has Zeeland not faced with an open visor, but been fooled? Or is it not true that Zeeland has been told something different than that research into alternative locations has been carried out in the meantime? And why has there been such an incredibly long delay in decision-making, with all the disadvantages of that, for both Zeeland and the Marines? Does the government realize how seriously the confidence of Zeeland has been violated? How does the cabinet plan to fix this? What amount is reserved for compensation? I assume that this will be dealt with in the Spring paper and that final decision-making will be speeded up. Does the government realise that a generous bag of money is not enough and that it is also about strengthening the economic structure, about jobs and provisioning? Can the Secretary of State undertake that it will not be cigars from his own box, but really additional plans? Finally. What kind of decision are we talking about today? It's a planned decision. What does that even mean, that it's a planned decision? Does it mean that it is still unclear what the final outcome will be? That everything's still open? I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u60	President. - I call Mr Van der Staaij to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic He sent a motion of censure to the spokesmen on this subject by e-mail to consider whether we could table it today. Before the Secretary of State answers, I ask him if he has a motion of censure. I understand the coalition has already been informed in advance. Did you speak to the coalition colleagues yesterday or the day before yesterday, and you thought: well, I have a lifeguard; I'm tabling a motion of censure and we're saving this Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u61	I do not think Mr Öztürk is so chic that he is already bringing into the debate what we see as an option for the final outcome of a debate. That's very difficult. I have indeed indicated that I am thinking of this and have asked others to think about it. That's right. This has gone so wrong. First of all, by deceiving it by not addressing it with an open vision and secondly by breaking the contract, without a good double decision being taken to replace it. In the run-up to this debate, my group has therefore considered the possibility of a motion of censure to say that this is a grossly inadequate one. We do not want a debate such as we have many in which it is said: yes, that is a pity. Something went wrong. The compensation has to be neat and everything will be okay. It is true that we take this very seriously. Then in response to your specific question, have I been in contact with coalition parties? I did not specifically talk to them about how this debate could end. I have, of course, said to everyone I met, on the basis of all those things that really concern me, how outraged we are about this course of action. That's what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u62	The whole discussion is about: what are you doing sneaking behind drivers' backs? What are you doing behind the scenes? "A military coup" I heard today. Everything is being prepared secretly behind the scenes. That is exactly what the citizens have problems with. You blame this Secretary of State for taking a different decision behind our backs from what the Zeeuws have lied to us. That's exactly why a lot of people aren't going to vote anymore. You sent a motion of censure yesterday, in the sense of: Guys, take it easy. It's not a motion of censure. I'll send a life buoy. And with that, to the coalition, makes a gesture of "I save her." That is exactly what the citizen blames us for. Mr. Van der Staaij, that's exactly what we shouldn't do anymore. Your party has been here for 100 years and is regarded here as the conscience of the Chamber. Your party should never in advance send a motion of censure to coalition members, to MPs, to cast her a lifeboat. Mr. Van der Staaij, we have to wait for the debate and then we have to make a judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u63	This is no longer a disagreement, but this is tutoring to Mr Öztürk. I'm willing to do that, too. Do you know what you do well if you want to take a very firm step and consider a motion of censure? I've been here for over 20 years. I think it's the second time I've played with that thought myself. That's right. Then I think it is appropriate to ask those who I know are very critical, especially of opposition parties, to think about it. If you take firm steps, we always like you to think about it. Yeah, that's right. I didn't send it to coalition parties, because I didn't think they would support it; though, you never know how a debate goes. The final outcome can also be quite different. I have also thought of a motion of censure against this Secretary of State. I've thought about other things, too, but I don't have to share all that now, do I? You can see that in the second term. So much for tutoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u64	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u65	Apparently, that's what he needs. It's about trust in politics. It's about what's decided in the back rooms. That is what the whole debate is about. The point is that this Secretary of State deceived and lied to the Zeeuws. The point is that for the first time in Dutch history a king's commissioner at Buitenhof says: "The Zeeuwen have been deceived and lied to." It's about credibility. With a motion of censure, you just want to take that away? That's exactly what I'm talking about. You're throwing a lifeboat in advance to save this Secretary of State while she's lying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u66	It is a very special vision to say to the cabinet that we condemn the policy we are pursuing, about the most robust instrument we have in our Chamber, namely that it is a rescue buoy. That is really a very special vision that Mr Öztürk has expressed here. I am completely at odds with that, because he really didn't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u67	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The most frightening thing about moving from the marine barracks to Vlissingen is that the government is showing itself to be unreliable. This is one of the e-mails I've had from our Zeeland politicians. I understand this feeling is alive and well. Zeeland is angry and disappointed that the move of the marine barracks is not going to happen. That's very understandable. Earlier several government services had already moved away from Zeeland. Now there would be a barracks with 1,800 soldiers. Mr. Chairman. Can the Secretary of State respond to the accusation of the Zeeland leaders that trust has been violated? Can she tell us exactly what didn't go well? How does she look back at the trial herself? What does she think she should have done or said differently herself? Couldn't she have taken the province and Vlissingen before the trial and in her consideration? What were the reasons she didn't do that? How's she gonna restore the broken trust? Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union understands in itself that the Secretary of State was considering the imminent drain of our Marine Corps. It is an important elite unit of our Dutch forces. Of course, we have been hearing reports of resistance among the Marines against the move for several years. We have also seen three previous investigations, which indicate the displeasure of the Marines. In 2015 there was already a survey, 2018. It was indeed an important consideration whether or not the Marines would actually go and what that had to do with. It had to do with the move, it had to do with the work of the partner, it had to do with the social network. It is understandable that the Secretary of State was not deaf before that, but still. I ask the Secretary of State if, despite her legitimate concerns, she could not have included the Zeeland leaders in that process. Mr. Chairman. All in all, the Christian Union Group regrets the government's decision not to go to Zeeland. My group will not make a final assessment of the decision until it is clear what compensation package will be available for Zeeland. It is clear that this must be a generous package. Mr. Chairman. There are also wide questions about this package in Zeeland. I will mention some of them. Will the compensation package entail one-to-one reimbursement of the direct and indirect costs incurred, i.e. the revenue lost? Does a compensation package have a similar effect as the naval barracks would have? Does the package offer sustainable socio-economic prospects for Zeeland, both in terms of employment and possibly infrastructure? Are we also looking at the improvement of accessibility? Over the last ten years, all kinds of services have been cut off. Mr Van der Staaij has just listed them. This was just a movement in the right direction, towards Zeeland. What employment can the government itself reduce? Will the package also compensate for the image damage suffered? In short, can the Secretary of State, on behalf of the cabinet and to reassure the Zeeuws, promise that the cabinet will respond generously to these three questions from Zeeland? Mr. Chairman. I'm not asking about the outcome. I'm asking about the cabinet's commitment. That is what Zeeland has to discuss with that special advisor when it comes to the outcome, but now it is about the commitment of the cabinet. For the sake of clarity, the compensation is not just about the costs incurred, is it? Can the Secretary of State say anything about the Special Adviser announced? When will he or she be appointed? Any word on who it's gonna be? Mr President, concluding. I hope that in this debate the Secretary of State will reflect on her own role in the process. I hope that she will be able to clarify the commitment to the compensation package for the Zeeuws. Finally, I hope that we will listen seriously and take into account the wishes of Zeeland and that before the summer it will be clear what the compensation package will look like. Once again, only after a serious and generous package is on the table will the Christian Union Group give its final verdict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u69	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. I now give the floor to Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u70	Mr. Chairman. The Zeeuws have been tricked, deceived, lied and deceived. In 2012 it was decided to move the marine barracks in Doorn to Vlissingen. The Zeeuws were, rightly, happy. There would be employment going to Zeeland. The economy would get a boost. That is why the Zeeuws, together with the municipality of Vlissingen and the province of Zeeland, started to work. Investments were made. Plans were made. Licenses were requested. But eight years later, in 2020, it all turned out to be for nothing. The Seagulls can whistle to their barracks. The cabinet withdraws the 2012 decision. The cabinet chooses Nieuw-Miligen at Apeldoorn. The reason for this is, among other things, that employees do not find Zeeland attractive enough to live and work. The Zeeuws have not only been deceived, this also humiliates the Zeeuws. Why does the cabinet let the ears hang on prejudices over Zeeland? Isn't that what I'm asking the Secretary of State is that we share government facilities fairly across the country? Leeuwarden has the IRS, Heerlen has the CBS. Why don't the Zeeuws get their fair share? That is exactly what many provinces in the region are asking for. I've been a member of the State in Limburg for years. I have seen for years what it is like: how the cabinet treats the regions, how The Hague treats the regions. This reinforces the mistrust that the regions have already had a bit of in recent years. Mr. Chairman. The most important question is what the deception towards the Zeeuwen does with the reliability of the government. The promise to the Zeeuws has not been fulfilled. Since June, behind the back of the Zeeuwen, they have been secretly working on an alternative location. Zeeland drivers knew nothing. For years they were busy with permits and plans to hear after eight years that it is not going to happen. This is maladministration, isn't it? Mr. Chairman. Where is the reliability of the cabinet? Where is the reliability of the government? Not only the Zeeuws, but also the Room is fooled. In November, the Secretary of State in the Chamber announced that he was still working on the move to Vlissingen, in November, while the Secretary of State was secretly working on alternative locations. Why didn't the Secretary of State ever inform the Chamber about this? I hear she did. Only the coalition members were allowed to know, that secret plan to cheat and cheat on the Zeeuws, and the opposition couldn't know anything. Why did the Secretary of State say to carry out the move to Vlissingen when she was already working on other locations? Then she didn't just cheat on the Zeeuws, she cheated on the Room, did she? Mr. Chairman. There's only one person responsible for this maladministration. There's only one person responsible for the broken promise, and that's the government, that's this Secretary of State. The government is now trying to buy off the mischief and the lying with taxpayers' money. The money that would go to other provinces for other projects, she is now going to use to correct the lying and the cheating, to buy off. The taxpayer must now take the blame for the cabinet's mischief. DENK doesn't want a culture of making up for lies with money. The government must be reliable. DENK is very clear about that. In previous debates, DENK has already said this. The government simply has to keep the 2012 promise. We need to get the Marines to Vlissingen. And if that doesn't happen, then this Secretary of State must go to Vlissingen himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u71	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Belhaj on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u72	Mr. Chairman. The inevitable happens. What started out as an innocent observation, namely insufficient space for the expansion of the existing barracks in Doorn, now turns into an outright debacle with only losers for Defence, for the Zeeuws and for the Marines. Mr. Chairman. How could this have dragged on for eight years? All those Marines and their families have had to live in uncertainty all this time. Should we or should we move to Zeeland? Should we sell our house? What do you do with the kids when you're a two-earer? These aren't easy questions. For more than half of the Marines, the move to Vlissingen is therefore the reason to leave the Corps. A Marine barracks without Marine Corps, it's no good to anyone. Mr. Chairman. Then the Zeeuws. They are disgusted about the way things are going, and I think that is perfectly understandable and right, more than right. The Zeeuws have been under the assumption that the barracks are coming all these years. I can therefore very well imagine that they now feel like they have been kept on a leash and feel like they are being fooled. My question to the Secretary of State is: can she promise to the Zeeuws that they will be compensated for all direct damage? Can the Secretary of State undertake that the Zeeuws will be compensated not only for the damage suffered but also for the socio-economic effects of the intended arrival of the Marine Firehouse? And, Mr President, very important and to which most of my colleagues have also reflected: how does she actually reflect on the past two or three weeks? The debate is very much about how we in the Netherlands are used to having a certain administrative responsibility, regardless of which political party you are. Does she not think that she should have said something after all and that she should have had that conversation, despite the fact that she herself indicated that she had not yet made a decision at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u73	Was Mrs Belhaj, when she was informed of the planned decision not to build the Marine Firehouse in Vlissingen, also aware that the province had not been notified?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u74	I was indeed informed the evening before by the Secretary of State that there was an intention to take a decision in the Council of Ministers. I didn't ask for that at all, but, given all the public responses, I don't think there was any administrative Zeeuw who was aware of the planned decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u75	But my question is: were you aware of that at the time? Were you aware that there were alternative locations, but above all that the Zeeuws had not been notified in any way? And what was your reaction?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u76	We didn't talk about that. I don't think it's my job to ask who's been called. That's not how it goes. But what we have all been able to read is, of course, as I said just now, that no administrative Zeeuw was aware of the planned decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u77	Was Mrs Belhaj aware that alternative locations were in the picture and when was she aware of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u78	No, I wasn't aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u79	Mr. Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u80	I was still a little in doubt, Mr. Chairman, but you pulled me over. Thank you. Now I'm sure I'd like to ask Mrs Belhaj a question. It must have occurred to her automatically when this message came from the Secretary of State, what would the Zeeuws actually think of that? I think that is such a natural question that I cannot imagine that Mrs Belhaj, whom I know as a very empathic colleague, did not ask what Zeeland really thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u81	I'll have to split it up. The question was very much about whether the executives were aware of it. There seems to be an extraordinary interest in how talks are conducted in a coalition context. I can tell from that that many parties will want to be part of that later. You must assume that the words I say here mean. I meant that yesterday, and I will mean that tomorrow. This means that I fully understand that the Zeeuws are deeply, deeply disappointed that the intention is to reverse the decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u82	That Mrs Belhaj means the words she says here, I know that. I even know she does that outside these doors with the words she says. That's how I know her. I am only concerned that I cannot imagine that, when such a communication comes, the hell with the question whether Zeeland knows about it. For it is a process that has been going on for years, in which all kinds of licensing cases and so on have slowed down and a lot of money has been stopped by Zeeland. I can hardly imagine that this question did not arise very quickly in those discussions and subsequently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u83	What is very worrying is that the day after that no decision was taken by the Council of Ministers. I'm not gonna say that if you say it there, it's worth more, because before you know it, I'm gonna have to make a record of all the meetings, and I'm just not gonna do that. They're meetings that I've been informed about confidentially. Do I necessarily like that? No, you should know that. But even more important is how uncomfortable it was after that, because after that there was a lot of uncertainty, while clarity was so important especially for the Zeeuwen, who didn't understand anything about the past three or four weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u84	The Commissioner of the King in Zeeland, your party colleague, said at Buitenhof that the Zeeuws have been deceived, deceived and lied. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u85	I saw that broadcast. Mr Van der Staaij said it very nicely: the Zeeuws are careful and do not necessarily always scream in the front row that there are abuses. I know Mr Polman as a very decent, honest, civilized and good Commissioner of the King in Zeeland. What he did there, you can expect from a commissioner of the King, namely to indicate what it feels like from Zeeland. That's what I want to say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u86	I know him, too, but I was wondering how you feel about those words. Do you also think the Zeeuws have been deceived, lied and deceived? That's what's going on right now. If you can answer that, I can ask my follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u87	Then, of course, it is tempting not to answer that. They are the words of Mr Polman. It's not my words. But I fully understand his anger and his anger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u88	Your final question on this point, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u89	Well, it was necessary to be able to ask a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u90	No, just a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u91	The D66 Group chairman, Mr Ton Veraart, says that compensation must be provided for Zeeland. He's talking about almost 2 billion euros. That's your partymate in Zeeland. I understand the coalition has agreed, "We're not moving the barracks. We're gonna buy it off and there's gonna have to be an amount." I'm already hearing $2 billion. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u92	I think Ton Veraart is a very outspoken D66er, who has made a calculation in his own entrepreneurial way. He didn't just share it with me, he shared it with everyone. That is his right, and that is his duty from his political point of view. But I am not going to make any statements about amounts here, because it is important that the consultant talks and ensures that there is something that will help Zeeland in the longer term. I think that's much more relevant. There's been some kind of misunderstanding. Zeeland is of course fantastic. We may not have said all that enough. But it's also interesting from an economic point of view. Often you think of such proposals when there is a need for economic growth, but there is just one. The sun almost always shines in Zeeland, it is beautiful living there, they have enough vacancies, you can get beautiful houses, there is fantastic lots of green and sea, and you name it. You have great restaurants there, even if you like fish. Money isn't all they need. It is also intended to ensure that there is demographic perspective and that there will soon be many people who can enjoy it. In my view, this is a much more important task for the Secretary of State, and therefore for the consultant, to look closely at it, and also at what the Zeeuws say they really need.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u93	I suggest you continue, Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u94	Yes, Mr. Chairman. In any case, it is a good thing that the cabinet takes a decision after all these years of uncertainty. But the question of how this ever happened remains partly unanswered. What I can see, however, is the fact that before then Minister of Defence Hans Hillen formally announced the need for marine barracks Zeeland to the Second Chamber in August 2012, six months before that, on 13 February 2012, D66 had seriously questioned the intention of the then Minister. That was not about whether Zeeland would be a wonderful place to do that, but about the method and decision-making. This was later confirmed by the General Court. At the time, Minister Hillen's decision was not sufficiently substantiated, no research has been carried out on alternatives, whereas the defence procedures in force should have done so, and the decision had been made under great pressure of time. A procedure which normally lasts more than a year was pushed through within six weeks. My question to the Secretary of State is: how does she look back on this course of events? How does she feel about that? Mr. Chairman. The fact that Zeeland's confidence has now been damaged by a poorly substantiated decision of 2012 by the then Minister is deeply regrettable. It is also regrettable that the Marine Corps had to say goodbye to experienced marines who form the backbone of our corps. It is important for all parties to learn lessons for the future. I am therefore considering tabling a motion on this in the second term, so that we can at least learn lessons about how we deal with such processes and what the role and task of the House of Representatives is to ensure that such blasphemies can no longer happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u95	Thank you, Mrs Belhaj. I now give the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u96	Mr. Chairman. Before I move on to the political content, I would also like to say something about Zeeland. Sometimes an image has been sketched in the sense of "What kind of province is that? Where do people want to go now?" Zeeland is a beautiful province, a province in which many people from home and abroad think of sun, sea and beach. Of course it is, but Zeeland is also a province of hard workers, of doers, and the province with the lowest unemployment. North Sea Port is Europe's third port; a lot of people don't know that either. Zeeland has the most diverse form of energy generation. The Zeeuws are doers, approachers. If they want a tunnel, they build a tunnel and they pay for it themselves. How different things sometimes happen with Amsterdam. Mr. Chairman. For Zeeuwen, jobs in the region are important, as is the case for the whole of the Netherlands. As a Chamber, we are discussing the government's planned decision not to move the Marine Station to Vlissingen. That is an important decision for me and therefore an important debate. As many of you know, I am not only a Zeeuw, but also a former military man. Nevertheless, I stand here as a Member of Parliament, who must find something of this. As a result of merging public services from 2010 onwards, we have to observe in Zeeland that a lot of services and therefore a lot of people left Zeeland. I was therefore also pleased with the choice for Vlissingen for the construction of a new marine barracks. The housing of our elite corps is not only a great honour, it also brings with it economic development. The bigger the blow is if the move from the barracks to Zeeland turns out not to go on, as happened last week. This applies to the Chamber, but especially to the Zeeuws and the Zeeuws directors, the contractual partners of the contract concluded in 2012. And then I can imagine the surprise, the disappointment, but also the anger of the Zeeland leaders very well. The VVD believes that Zeeland should have participated in the State Secretary's dilemma much earlier. Mr. Chairman. However, this decision raises the question of how to proceed. The cabinet has a contract with Zeeland. That must be done right. If the cabinet wants to get rid of the contract for him, it will have to sit down with the Zeeland government and compensate for the costs, but also compensate for the potential income that Zeeland is currently failing. The VVD uses the term "fair compensation" here. It is a good thing that the cabinet shows that it is a cabinet responsibility and not just a defence responsibility. From that perspective, it is also logical that the Minister for the Interior should take up this role on behalf of the cabinet. But again, this will have to be resolved with the Zeeland rulers, in good consultation and with the agreement of those Zeeland rulers, because trust comes on foot and goes on horseback. I don't know if the Secretary of State has ever stood next to a ring track in which a Zeeuwse knol goes in full gallop towards the ring. That goes with thunder and violence. And that's how Zeeland's trust left. Of course, this is a process between the Zeeland leaders and the cabinet, but it is not without obligation. We have to deliver from the cabinet. That is why the VVD wants this process to be presented to the Chamber before the summer, so that we as a Chamber can discuss it and judge it before the summer recess. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u97	I have one more question for Mr Bosman. Your colleague Mr Van Helvert said earlier that one of the reasons why this process was drawn up by the cabinet was that there was simply a majority in the Chamber. That was a majority of the House that also included the VVD. Even after that decision was made, the VVD, and in that sense also you personally, maintained that it was important that that barracks should go to Vlissingen, while you also saw that there was a high outflow, that there would be major cost overruns and that there would be major problems in getting that barracks fit for purpose at that spot. We've talked about that several times. How do you see your own role, that of the VVD, if you now look at the way that process has gone?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u98	You have to see that decision in the story from 2010 to 2012. It was part of the origin of problems in Zeeland, where it was said: it is convenient that that barracks is there. I still do. I was very worried about what happened in Zeeland. We saw more taillights than headlights on the A58. That was a real problem. In fact, we have to work hard to get those people inside. It was said that there are many vacancies, but unemployment is the lowest in the whole province. Maybe that's the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u99	You are now giving a kind of socio-economic description of Zeeland. I think we're all agreed on that. We're all going to say one by one that Zeeland is a beautiful province...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u100	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u101	... with most hours of sunshine. I say that being very active in Friesland. Of course, I have no objection to Zeeland. But my question was really about something else. My question was: how do you look at the role of the VVD in this whole process, also in the light of all the information already available on the high outflow, the likely large cost overruns and the fact that the barracks would probably not be fit for purpose?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u102	The VVD really wanted that barracks in Vlissingen. That's very clear. We have also always looked at whether those possibilities were there and as much as possible created the possibility to get that barracks in Vlissingen. We did this because agreements were made, but also because we believe it was in the interests of Zeeland and also in the interests of the marines. There came a brand new barracks with real perspective for the corps itself. So we really thought that was a win-win.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u103	Yeah, but you actually skip six years in this process every time. You're reflecting on 2012 and you're looking at today. But in between, of course, a lot has happened. The point I want to make is that at least in the period I am in the Chamber from 2017, we indicated that it probably didn't work out with that barracks, for the reasons I have just mentioned a few times. We have said: there really is a problem; should we not reconsider this? We have asked written questions about this over and over again. Time and again, you indicated that I was on the wrong track, because everything will be fine with the Marine Corps. Now we have to decide this with each other for a long time. You, too, say that it is a pity, but it is better not to move the barracks to Vlissingen. Then again, for the third time, what do you think of your own attitude, the attitude of the VVD, in the whole process?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u104	It was my intention to ensure that the process ran in such a way that we could have a barracks in Vlissingen. Of course I said that participation should be involved. Of course, I said that the costs had to be controlled. Of course I said we should see what happens to the outflow of marines. But it has always been the intention and interest of the VVD to say: how do we get that barracks in Zeeland?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u105	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u106	Mrs. Karabulut. I'm sorry, Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u107	One final comment on participation, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u108	Yes. Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Bosman refers to the co-determination committee, but the main point is that this co-determination committee was just skipped at the beginning of the process. That is one of the reasons why this process has eventually become such an administrative debacle. So you didn't think about it until you started thinking about it, or took action, when it had already become a game.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u110	As Members of Parliament, we are not sitting in the driver's seat to conduct the consultation with the participation. If there are problems with co-determination, it is apparent when there are problems with co-determination. And that's when it gets out. Of course, then it is important that you make sure that the process is going well. I have also spoken about this seriously in debates. You know me as someone who talks regularly about participation and the importance of participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u111	Mr Bosman, VVD'er, but also former military officer, he referred to this himself, that is why I am also doing this for a moment, and Zeeuw, quite rightly speaks with pride about the beauty and importance of Zeeland, and about the development of Zeeland.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u112	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u113	He was also always proud of the decision made and convinced of the plan until the media reports that another decision would be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u114	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u115	My question to Mr Bosman is: how did the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats vote in favour of this process, knowing that you have many more contacts in the region than I do, knowing that the Zeeuwen have been sidelined, knowing that this is causing enormous damage to the image and knowing that this is actually a piece of inappropriate governance? How could you have agreed to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u116	There has been no agreement; let us put it first. The essence is that there was a planned decision that has now been taken. That is now, by the cabinet, in the Chamber. That's why we're talking about it right now. That is what I am discussing now, and that is what I discussed with the group last Tuesday. That's how I talk about it. We work on the basis of decisions made and not on the basis of things we've ever heard. That's the intention. The concern we have expressed as a group is that the decision is a planned decision and also a double decision. That means that the compensation is a part of that. Let me be very clear about that. It's not just the decision not to continue the move of the barracks that we're all talking about. The other part of the decision is perhaps even more important, namely to ensure that compensation is properly arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u117	I do not want to play dumb with Mr Bosman here, because his coalition colleagues have confirmed it and we have all read it in the newspapers. There didn't seem to be any dirt in the air. So you were informed by the Secretary of State and the Minister about the decision to be discussed in the Council of Ministers. That's where problems arose because of another CDA minister, and we're right where we are right now. You are therefore well aware of the fact that this is an example of inappropriate administration. Then you cannot insist that this is the way things are going and that we should deal with Zeeland in this way? I'd like to hear about that. What qualification does that give you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u118	I think I said this in my speech: it is inappropriate. And of course it makes perfect sense that the Zeeland rulers and all Zeeland are angry. That is absolutely right. I've already indicated that, so you're asking about the familiar road, but I'd like to repeat it. Of course, people are angry, and rightly so. We shouldn't do this. My question was also: couldn't Zeeland have been involved in this process before? That's my concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u119	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u120	Finally, my question is: aren't you also extremely angry? Aren't you extremely upset that it is your secretary of state and your cabinet who did this in this way, knowing what the history is and now also knowing that there was an alternative in the summer? I assume you also have knowledge of the documents. Aren't you incredibly angry?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u121	This is our all cabinet and this is our all Secretary of State. Let's put that first. I'm mostly disappointed. I am sorry that we are now standing here with the process we are looking at. I think we should take a serious look at how it happened and see if we can learn lessons from this. For us, the most important thing is how to ensure that the proposed double decision is properly implemented. Once again, I think the Zeeland drivers are up to it. They need to be given all the space to fill that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u122	Daddy's not angry, but he's disappointed. I heard me say it to my 7-year-old son last weekend. The Secretary of State announced two planned decisions in last Friday's letter. First, the planned decision not to move the barracks to Vlissingen. I know this hurts Mr Bosman. I'm not gonna ask him about that, because I just know that. Secondly, the proposed decision to make compensation. I have indicated that it would be impossible to make one decision without agreement on the other. I just heard Mr Bosman say something about a snappy decision. Does that mean that he agrees with me that there should be agreement on a good compensation for Zeeland, if another decision can be taken to stop the move?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u123	They're in one letter. They were taken together. They're going to be performed together. It's very clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u124	The Zeeuws are angry and disappointed that the barracks do not come to Vlissingen. But they feel even more deceived and lied about a piece of betrayal, because behind their backs and behind the drivers' backs decisions were made. My first question is this. You've been informed as a coalition companion. You say that the cabinet belongs to all of us, but you and your coalition colleagues and the coalition spokesmen are informed, and we are not. Have you been informed of this by your own Secretary of State through a personal assistant, a memo or a conversation? Before it entered the coalition, did our Zeeland MP, who was also a military member, have a little bit of "how does that feel?" And "see if he can agree to this"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u125	No. And as weird as that may sound: I am very happy with that purity. People who know me know that I like law-abiding, law-abiding. It doesn't make any sense. I'm very much in favour of you not wanting any hassle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u126	At some point you will be informed with the coalition members present. As the largest party in the coalition, you had the opportunity to say: 'Over my dead body. I don't accept this. We're not gonna do this. Secretary of State does not do this, because this can cause a great deal of damage to Zeeland and damage our credibility. I'm not gonna make it. Tomorrow you must inform the king's commissioner, because this is what they feel as betrayal." Is that what you did?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u127	If you have submitted this kind of coalition, and the Secretary of State cannot do it, then there is a communication about what is going to happen. Apparently, people have the idea that we'll spend hours debating and having debates and the like. It's an announcement. In fact, it is an item on the agenda for the Council of Ministers that I am not even talking about and I am not even allowed to talk about. The fact that I'm saying this actually goes too far. And you know my state-law boss; actually, I think this is inappropriate. But I'll explain it to you. It is not being discussed so extensively and it is not being discussed in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u128	Finally, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u129	Mr. Bosman, when you were a soldier, you received an announcement at the briefing and you had to carry it out. You're not a soldier anymore. You're an elected representative of the people. You also have the task of controlling this Secretary of State. Not only does the Secretary of State make a statement, but does he press you: can I save this; will Mr Bosman stand behind me? This is not just a communication, but a basis for support. If she's got support, she'll go to the officials and say, "We're gonna do it."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u130	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u131	And so you participated in that deception. I'm trying to make that clear again. When you do not inform the Zeeuws, do not stand up for Zeeland and this Secretary of State does not stop and advises to inform Zeeland first before she takes this step, you simply participated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u132	The special thing is that Mr. Öztürk asks something from me that he doesn't want at all. He doesn't want me to intervene. This is the time to talk about what the cabinet should decide. If at that time I had intervened on the basis of information that basically just goes to the Council of Ministers and which I am not going to discuss... It would be very strange for me to intervene on such an agenda. That's totally inappropriate, isn't it? Then it is essential that it be discussed. Then it is essential that we get it into the Chamber. Then it is essential that we go through this process in all openness and transparency, where we are now. It is really bizarre that Mr Öztürk is now asking me to take back-room politics and then to take my time. That's really weird, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u133	Thank you, Mr. Bosman. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u134	Mr. Chairman. Over the past few months, the anger in me has grown. How can you deal with the Zeeuws in this way, with the regional and local directors? They've been completely fooled by this Secretary of State. There were stories told that weren't true. There was nice weather, while you could see the thunderstorms coming. Everyone was being kept on a leash. The Chamber was also misinformed and incompletely informed. 50PLUS feels fooled. I imagine the Zeeuws are all hell about this. It's a good thing they're here today in such a large number. When I read the papers this morning, my anger was interspersed with pity. What a failure! I thought we had an army to fight the enemy. In my view, that enemy is always somewhere abroad. But no, the greatest enemy are their own civil servants and loose-lipped former executives! This is not the first time in this cabinet; this is certainly not the only ministry. When the ministerial summit talks about the Minister and the Secretary of State, it becomes painfully clear that these rulers are passers-by and that the real power lies with the officials. That's what I call painful. It is still mild that officials tell journalists that the Secretary of State's handwriting is a disaster. Come on, but it's significant that such facts are thrown into the streets by your own people, where you as a ruler must be able to trust. That shows you don't have enough authority. But it gets worse when a predecessor and party colleague say about the minister that she never reads her documents, and about the Secretary of State that she doesn't make any decisions. Deadly! And then there's the list of headache files that this indecisive ruler had to tie down and cut through. The replacement of submarines, collective bargaining, abuses at a barracks in Schaarsbergen, sex scandals, dirty barracks kitchens, winter clothes that weren't in order, weapons and other equipment, toxic substances and I'll just mention a few. And on top of that is the hoarse play around Vlissingen. Even in this week's letter, this undecided Secretary of State continues to doubt. In her last sentence, she writes: "if the barracks do not enter Vlissingen." If! What do you mean "if"? Is there even an option right now that that barracks would come to Vlissingen? What an embarrassment! Or are we being misinformed again? So far, mostly the marines of hers have been playing the blackbird, but is that true? Has the middle management actually been properly listened to? And to know that much and much earlier it had been decided not to allow this move to continue. We've all been fooled by this Secretary of State. And why? Why weren't the Zeeuws informed much earlier and weren't they already offered generous compensation? Why has the Chamber been so horribly deceived? This is symptomatic of the rulers of this cabinet. But that can't be used to, can it? I understand that more and more voters are losing confidence in this cabinet. Has the room been misinformed? Was this an inappropriate administration? I think so. Can the Secretary of State prove otherwise? If not, the Secretary of State should draw its own conclusions and conclusions. And let us be honest: a motion of censure proposed by the SGP seems to me to be considerably heavier than a motion of mistrust by another party, which is often much more shocking. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u135	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u136	Thank you, Mr President. The Zeeuws are angry, and quite rightly so. They have been bungling for eight years, awaiting the move of the marine barracks from Doorn to Vlissingen. The Secretary of State has been the guardian of this slide file since 2017, a demonstration of lack of political decision-making, lack of cooperation and lack of communication. Actually, it's more of a slow-motion accident if you've seen this over the last eight years. Yet it came to the province of Zeeland as a thunderbolt in the clear sky, because the Secretary of State has not been honest about the investigation into alternatives and because the Secretary of State dismissed it as rumors. Why did she do that? Here she has flown quite off the bend, by dealing with the province in this way. The government needs the decentralised directors to face up to the problems in the country. You can't and shouldn't shave him like that. Mr. Chairman. We are talking about democratic renewal. If democracy is so undermined by our rulers, then we should gradually start to revive democracy. An unreliable government is the enemy of democracy. The examples of withheld reports, hidden scandals and laxity towards the Chamber, which daily begs the cabinet for information but which only gets through the press, piles up. Mr. Chairman. Citizens haven't trusted the government for a long time. Now the government doesn't trust the government anymore. How's the cabinet gonna restore confidence? How will Zeeland be fully compensated and generously compensated? Mr. Chairman. How much longer is this cabinet gonna plow into the mess it's causing itself? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u137	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Beertema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u138	Thank you, Mr President. The joint farewell gift of CDA Commissioner Karla Peijs and CDA Minister Hillen turned out to be a disaster. At all costs, the Marines' barracks had to go to Vlissingen. Objections weren't taken seriously. Alternatives were not investigated. It turned out to be a total failure. In the meantime, we are eight years away, we are hundreds of Marines poorer and this file has brought nothing but misery. There's a drain in the Marines. The Zeeuws have been hunted down by an unreliable government. Still no stone has been laid for a new barracks, not in Vlissingen, not in Doorn and not in Nieuw-Miligen in the municipality of Apeldoorn. Mr. Chairman. That puts the Marine Corps, our elite troops, still in uncertainty after years. And why? Shortly after in 2012 CDA member Hans Hillen pushed through the decision to go to Vlissingen, signals already came out that Vlissingen was an extremely inappropriate location. The soil was contaminated. Large Navy ships cannot dock there and lack proper training facilities. And perhaps the most important thing, because it's about the marines: the marines themselves and their families didn't like the whole plan from the start. Even the Court of Auditors had doubts. Mr. Chairman. And so this miserable plan should have been shot down years ago. That opportunity was even in 2018 when the PVV filed a motion to cancel the move. But after years of delay, a dramatic chapter was added recently. It wasn't just the location of the Marine barracks that was catastrophic. That can also be said about the action of this VVD Secretary of State. For far too long she has kept the Zeeuws in uncertainty. She has communicated to both the Chamber and the press in an incredibly amateuristic way. The Zeeuws had to be told through the media that the move had been cancelled. Mr. Chairman. As far as we're concerned, Rutte III once again shows his untrustworthy face. The question remains: what is the Secretary of State going to say today to all these Zeeuws here in the public gallery, who have travelled to The Hague in large numbers? How is it going to reassure them and respond to them, because there must be some form of compensation, as a matter of fact. We would like to urge the Secretary of State to speed things up, above all. Please don't let it become another lengthy process that can only further undermine public confidence. The appointment of a special envoy is really not enough for that. Finally. What's the alternative to our Marines now? Because that's what it started and that's what it has to end with. Within what time will the Secretary of State, our elite troops, for which we have so much respect and admiration, provide housing that they deserve and to which they are entitled? I'd like a response to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u139	Thank you, Mr. Beertema. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-4.u140	I want to suspend until 1:45 p.m. Then we start with the arrangement of work. At 2 p.m., the Secretary of State will answer the questions put by the Members of Parliament.
