ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden, on behalf of the VVD, to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, who replaces the Minister for Legal Protection. The question is about delays and long lead times in the case-law. Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. The figures on the delays in the case law are worrying, but the reality behind the figures is much more so. Take the 18-year-old woman who was raped by an asylum seeker in 2016 in the warehouse of a bag shop. When the unsub deliberately received a lower sentence because otherwise he would lose his residence permit, father and daughter understoodably appealed. They then had to wait over a year and a half for the appeal four years after the Afghan was apprehended. For example, delays in justice do not result in a process of law, but in an accumulation of injustice. How does the cabinet assess the impact on the Dutch's sense of justice of the reports on matters that remain on the shelf? In the criminal justice chain it literally squeaks and cracks: the sound of deviant faxing still sounds as if it were 1980. With the support of the VVD, the motion of colleagues Van Dam and Groothuizen was adopted asking where the main bottlenecks lie. Is it true that we should expect the screening that follows from this in June of this year and, if so, to what extent can we trust that it really gives an integral picture of bottlenecks at all the links in the chain, namely victim support, police, OM, justice, DJI and probation? One of the agreements is that the backlogs have been eliminated by the end of 2022. Are we gonna make it? There's 95 million more available. Is it true that there are no signals from the case-law that this amount would not be sufficient? What about the deployment of retired judges? How does the cabinet view the possibility of reducing the compulsory dismissal of judges by 70 years? Previously, the board of the NVvR argued for a limit of 75 years for alternates. What is the planning to increase the training capacity for judges? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. We were aware that justice has a capacity problem. That is precisely why last year's cabinet invested in justice. With the price agreement for the period 2020-2022, around 95 million structural products, i.e. 95 million per year, have been added. However, such a report is of course hard on 22,700 criminal cases this year. This underlines once again the need for action and investment. For I agree with Mr Van Wijngaarden that it is indigestible for victims to wait longer for a case to be dealt with. You have to be quick in those cases. This is an important condition for effective criminal justice and also for the citizens' sense of justice, such as: something has been done to me, a prosecution is being started and there will be an acquittal or a conviction. If that takes too long, it will indeed have a negative effect. We've already made investments. Money has become available, but of course not all the problems have been solved immediately. It has not been possible to recruit additional judges in one day, and it is also necessary to train those additional judges. That is a matter that takes a number of years. That is why the Minister for Legal Protection, on behalf of whom I am here, has also linked the removal of the backlogs in his agreements with the Judicial Council to the three-year price period, 2020, 2021 and 2022. At the same time, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the judiciary and the whole chain have a responsibility to ensure that the lead times are reduced and the backlogs eliminated. Good steps have already been taken on a number of points. I would like to mention four points. There's more central direction. There's a smoke detector group called "Sitting Magistrate and the Public Prosecutor's Office" so that the assistance can be adjusted and arranged. This group inventoryes, plantes and prioritizes. There is also actual assistance from courts. If there is a need for a particular judge, one can be put on that case. This can be done to some extent according to the RO Act. There is also consultation with the lawyer in order to make better use of the capacity of the hearing. That is the third point. The contribution of the legal profession to this was also discussed. In addition, the fourth point, the central processing provides separate case streams for the light OM cases. Those are the simple criminal cases and the criminal decisions. That is about what I wanted to say to Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thanks to the Secretary of State, also for wanting to replace her colleague here. It is good to hear that the message is coming hard, because the reality behind it is, as I said, even harder if possible. It also affects people's sense of justice. I will deal with the training of judges, the additional training capacity. Apart from the fact that it is quite impossible to become a judge, I understand that justice is now at the maximum training capacity. I would like to understand the steps and I am very curious about the pace with which justice itself is working to increase training capacity by providing more certified trainers. I can imagine that is a bit of a tricky detail question, so if the Secretary of State or the Minister wants to come back to that, that is fine. The Minister has indicated that there will be a flex team of judges. Judges will be asked to assist in courts where there is too little capacity and too much delay. To what extent does that really happen? I heard in an abstract sense that that happens, but to what extent does it happen? What are the problems involved? Because now we really need to look at available capacity in all corners and holes. To what extent are those seeking justice now referred to a court of law further away? Of course, that could happen. You can say: here we have too tight capacity, but a little further away, accessible by train or car, that capacity is there. To what extent does that actually happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. There are a number of questions I can answer, and there are also a number of more detailed questions, for which I will refer to my colleague, the Minister for Legal Protection, who may answer them in writing. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked about the training of judges and whether there was sufficient capacity for them. At the same time, he also said that it was quite impossible to become a judge. The fact that the selection for the judiciary is a strict one has been so for years. I think that is very sensible, because it is an appointment for life and it is incredibly important that we have judges who are really fit for their job and who also know things. As far as the training of judges is concerned, I must refer to my colleague, Minister Dekker. He'll respond to this. There has been talk of the judges' flex teams. This is regulated by the RO Act (Law on the Judicial Organisation). There is a limited possibility for flex, so that a judge sits in another court and participates in the hearings. But we are also working on a bill to get this done. Another point raised by Mr Van Wijngaarden was the Van Dam motion which was discussed during the budget debate last autumn and which was adopted. The result is that the screening of the criminal justice chain will be done by PwC. In the AO that took place last week, it was agreed that the result will be published before 14 June. Maybe it's good to know after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u7	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u8	One more point, Mr President. I am sure that the issue of pensioners who are being put to work has the Council's attention to the judicial process, but that too, of course, has a limited scope.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u9	Finally, Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u10	It is good that the Secretary of State will come back to questions that have not yet been answered, but I also asked to what extent we can trust that this review will really give an integral picture. Because that's easier said than done. The point is that all the links in that criminal justice chain should be looked at where the bottlenecks lie. Can we really rely on that? After all, we are concerned that no one should be allowed to rely on injustice. This requires a thorough analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u11	PwC got the assignment, and I think we can trust them to do a good research on that. But there will also be the factsheet of the criminal justice monitor. That's where all the numbers and all the lead times come in. This is given to the House of Representatives for the examination of the final law, the annual report and so on. I therefore believe that the combination of both will at least lead to what Mr Van Wijngaarden is asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you, Mr. Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u13	Last week we talked about the criminal justice chain. That is indeed a very important issue. The interesting thing was that the VVD didn't have so many comments to make at the time and took a completely different path, but unfortunately we often see that in the VVD when it comes to this theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u14	There.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u15	My question to the Secretary of State is as follows. The justice system is making a very intensive effort: it wants to eliminate 100,000 cases in three years. My question is clear: is that real, looking at the problems that exist in the chain? Is this a real expectation or are we actually organizing our own disappointment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u16	If the chain points out that the goal is to eliminate 100,000 cases in three years, I assume that the chain itself has sufficient insight into how the chain works in order to make that statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u17	It is actually rather sad that under a VVD regime both the police and the prosecutor and the judiciary are quite bad. I think that Mr Groothuizen's question of whether the expectation is realistic is a fair question. But I have another question. You say that this screening will take place before 14 June, but does this mean that there is still room to take that into account in the Spring Paper? Otherwise we will have the same problem that we have seen before, among other things with Minister Grapperhaus: we wanted extra money for the police, but we could not and we had to wait another six months. That would be a bit of a waste of such an important screening. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u18	The Spring paper is being discussed and negotiated at the moment and I cannot give an idea of it yet. I can tell you it squeaks and cracks in the criminal justice chain. That was also said last week by Minister Grapperhaus in the AO. We can only do that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u19	An AO is a committee meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u20	Indeed, it beeps and cracks in the criminal justice chain. We're not gonna solve this overnight. The Christian Union calls on the cabinet to make every effort to do so, because this has consequences for citizens. I got a call from a father of a minor daughter who's a victim of a vice case. The incident took place in 2017. Still, this case hasn't come to trial after two and a half years. She had to quit her education and call in psychic help. It puts pressure on the family. These are the effects of this policy. I know there's been a relocation in that case, too. Because one court was too busy, it had to go to another court, but there it came back to the bottom of the pile. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if I can get an overview from the Cabinet of how often such situations occur, that it is too crowded at one court and that it ends up at the bottom of the pile at the other court.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u21	I agree with Mrs Van der Graaf that it is extremely sad that such a girl has had to wait two and a half years, that one court has no capacity and that it is on the pile with the other. I must tell you that the judiciary is our third state power and also an incredibly important part of our rule of law. People must be able to obtain their rights in time, in civil law, but also in criminal law; there may be proceedings against the person who committed a crime or offence. You ask for an overview of the situations that one court has no room and that it comes to the other at the bottom of the pile. I can't tell you if that's possible. I will ask the Minister for Legal Protection if that information is available. If that data is available, I am convinced that he is prepared to provide that data. It depends on whether they're available.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thank you.
