ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u1	First, I give the floor to Mr von Martels of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're gonna talk about tourism. I am also busy myself to consider the next tourist season. Where I'm going, where I'm going to store my tents, it's still unclear, but that'll turn out to be the case next year. I have two questions and a motion. During the AO it was discussed that the Secretary of State would talk to NBTC and the industry organisations, to see how the campaign "Here you must be," about the distribution of tourism in the postcorona era, will take shape. So my question is: has that conversation been there and what are the findings? The committee has received a petition from the small entrepreneurs in the travel industry. They have argued in favour of entering into a conversation with the Secretary of State. My question is actually the same: has there been a conversation and what are the findings? How can we possibly support that group, that industry, those small entrepreneurs? Because they often fall between shore and ship. The motion I wish to table is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the corona crisis hits the Dutch hospitality economy hard;]] [[Whereas the tourism sector, characterised by SMEs and family businesses, will have to continue to innovate in order to be competitive and sustainable;]] [[Whereas loss of demand and loss of turnover due to the corona crisis will limit profits, leaving no or little investment space for innovation;]] [[Calls on the Government to explore, together with public and private partners in the Hospitality Economy Task Force, how SME entrepreneurs in the tourism sector can make better use of existing schemes and instruments that promote innovation, digitisation and sustainability, and to inform the Court in January 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr von Martels, Mr Schonis and Mr Aartsen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-155]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u3	Mr. Chairman. It seems that Corona has changed the future of the Dutch tourism sector not only dramatically, but above all permanently. Many entrepreneurs in the travel industry struggle with the question of how to proceed. Mr von Martels referred to this earlier. The same applies to municipalities and provinces in our own country, especially in places where tourism is an important component of the regional economy. It is therefore high time for us to join forces and for the cabinet to take control and come up with an action plan. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the outbreak of COVID-19 has seriously affected the tourism sector in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that the consequences of this outbreak have changed the future of the Dutch tourism sector not only dramatically, but are also expected to continue;]] [[Whereas the tourism sector represented almost 5% of the gross domestic product (GDP) of the Dutch economy before the outbreak of COVID-19;]] [[Calls on the Government, in consultation with the tourism sector, provinces and municipalities, to adopt an action plan for the tourism sector addressing the priorities for the upcoming tourist season and to inform the Court of Justice by January 2021 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Schonis, Mr Aartsen, Mr von Martels and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-156]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u4	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u5	You too. I call Mr Aartsen of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u6	Mr. Chairman. The travel industry is currently in severe weather. A lot of entrepreneurs have nothing to do with anything since last February. They saw the May holidays disappear, they saw the summer holidays disappear and they saw the autumn holidays disappear. And it looks like the winter holidays will also disappear. In addition to all these cancellations, they have had to spend a lot of vouchers. Luckily, people have asked for that. We are almost a year away, and now many of these vouchers are threatening to be paid out, even though they do not have enough cash in their pockets. As a result, we simply see a major financing problem for these entrepreneurs coming towards us. That's how we see the bankruptcies approaching. I think that we should help these people to prefinance this problem, with a voucher bank. By means of the next motion, I call on the cabinet to come forward with this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in the letter of 28 August last year on the third aid and recovery package, the Cabinet indicated that it was considering a credit facility in the form of a voucher bank;]] [[noting that the current GSC guarantee system offers a solution to consumers only after a travel organisation has been declared bankrupt;]] [[Whereas more and more vouchers issued in the near future will have to be repaid, which could lead to payment problems and a wave of bankruptcy in the travel industry;]] [[points out that it is important that a voucher bank for the travel industry be set up quickly to prevent companies from going bankrupt when vouchers are due to be paid;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with the travel industry by 1 December with a proposal for a credit facility in the form of a voucher bank linked to the existing vouchers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Aartsen, Schonis, Van der Lee, von Martels and Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-157]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u7	Mr. Chairman. The corona pandemic has a devastating effect on part of our economy: catering, travel, cultural facilities and parts of the retail trade. That's dramatic. In addition to the acute emergency aid, we also need to look at the longer term, what is structuralally needed to keep the quality of residence of centres in order. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the covid pandemic results in structural and long-term deterioration of the vitality and attractiveness of the centres of cities and centres with a regional centre function;]] [[Whereas this is very damaging to the quality of life, catering, retailing and cultural facilities;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, in addition to providing adequate emergency support, the longer-term effects, the means and measures needed to remedy structural economic damage and the deterioration of quality of residence and attractiveness, and to involve the umbrella organisations of catering, retailing and cultural facilities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-158]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u8	Mr. Chairman. Following on from the point addressed by Mr Aartsen, there are great problems. There is a danger of bankruptcy in the sector, but there are also vouchers whose compensation is sufficient. The covid pandemic has revealed that the financial structure in the travel sector is simply extremely vulnerable. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the covid pandemic exposes huge financial risks and vulnerabilities in the financial and economic structure of the travel sector;]] [[Whereas this is largely due to the system in which consumers and other parties in the travel chain pay far in advance travel amounts;]] [[calls on the Government to examine independently and expertly how to make the financing structure of the travel sector less vulnerable, involving relevant parties, such as consumer organisations and (mkb) travel operators,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag and Mr Aartsen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-159]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u9	Would you allow me one more sentence, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u10	Come on, because it's October 30th. Or no, October 29th!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u11	Those vouchers do give me a lot of trouble. If the guarantees are sufficient to compensate all vouchers, my question is: My question to the Secretary of State is whether she would like to send a letter to the Chamber on this issue, i.e. the impact on consumers and businesses, in the short term. I'm terribly worried about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u12	Thank you. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. The motions have not yet been distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u13	May I ask you to take your seats again? Then I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of State for her response to the motions and outstanding questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let's see. The first motion is the motion-Von Martels c.s. in piece No. 155. It invites the government to explore, together with public and private partners in the Hospitality Economy Task Force, how SME entrepreneurs in the tourism sector can make better use of existing schemes. With regard to the request made in this motion, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber, provided that you do not tie me to the time limit. I must be a little careful with all the officials, who are also working their way around at this time in order to find out, establish and regulate matters for everyone and for everything. If you will allow me to do this, they can also go home once in a while; well, they are already there, because we all work at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u15	I see the petitioner nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u16	He nods, so that's how we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u17	He understands your officials. We all do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u18	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u19	The motion in part No. 155 gets judgment, then, Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u20	Then there is the second motion, in part No. 156. It belongs to Mr. Schonis c.s. Aartsen, von Martels and Bruins are also underneath it. It calls on the government, together with the sector, provinces and municipalities, to draw up an action plan for the tourism sector addressing the priorities for the upcoming tourist season. I shall leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber as well. Of course, we all hope for a different summer than last year. I can well imagine that we are working together on a number of scenarios. Mr von Martels asked me: was there a discussion on this with the sector? Yeah, that definitely happened. In that sense, the motion is in line with that discussion and I can leave the ruling on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u21	The motion in part No. 156 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u22	Then the motion-Aartsen c.s. in piece No. 157, to arrive at a voucher bank. I do need some time for this, because there are a number of dilemmas here. We are going to do so, as I said this morning, but there are a number of dilemmas. For individual travel operators, the support package applies. TVL, NOW, I don't have to tell you all about it. The vouchers have eased the pressure on the travel sector in the last six months. Rest and trust in the system are important. That is why we have granted a loan of 150 million to the GSC. Together with own resources, the GSC thus has sufficient liquidity to continue to compensate consumers. For smaller guarantee funds, 10 million is reserved. To answer Mr Moorlag's question straight away: yes, I am also very concerned about this situation, but as it now seems, there is sufficient liquidity. Mr Moorlag asked for guarantees, but of course they cannot be given. However, every effort is being made to avoid major problems in the sector. Now that the perspective is limited, the travel sector is rightly concerned about the future. We've all been able to read all about that. For a number of companies, this means that they are looking at their business model again critically. In addition, there are the vouchers already provided. These vouchers are in fact a debt to consumers in the sector. A number of travel organizations have kept the money of these vouchers separate. If the money is asked back, it's not a problem. But that is not the case for a number of organisations. We examine with the travel industry the feasibility and desirability of a credit facility linked to existing vouchers, but also look at other solutions, such as additional loans for the GSC. The idea is that entrepreneurs will receive a multi-annual loan from the government, which will allow them to pay back some of the vouchers to the consumer, in addition to what the travel industry itself does or has to do. I say to you right away that this is a complex solution with many hooks and eyes, which we will continue to shape together with the sector. The dilemmas are next. The sector is diverse: small businesses, large companies and everything in between. The diversity is also reflected in the earning models. There are companies that pay almost all of the purchase of flights and hotel rooms in advance and there are companies that pay most of the consumer's payment until the trip has been carried out. Of course, that makes a lot of difference when it comes to liquidity. There are several guarantee funds, which are different in nature. There are also travel organisations that indicate that they do not want to use a voucher bank. When it comes to granting credit to companies, a credit check is also important. Are we dealing with a viable company? After all, it's about taxpayers' money. And, Mr President, a solution must also be presented in Brussels in connection with the state aid test. Finally, but certainly not unimportant, together with the sector, there is also a need to set up an implementation organisation. Two working groups have been set up to advise on this matter. So we're gonna do it, but what it looks like and what it means for the different types of companies in this sector, needs to be made clear in the future. But with this remark I can leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u23	The motion gets judgment of Chamber, as far as the request to the government is concerned, because it is also a "pronouncing" motion. Mr. Moorlag, you were ready? No, first the petitioner? Mr. Aartsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u24	Thanks to Mr Moorlag and also to the Secretary of State for the "judge chamber" give this motion. I thought I'd hit that credit check, 'cause I hope we're not turning this into a whole paper tiger again. Are travel companies future-proof at the moment? I think the answer to that is just as it is for the catering and events sector. They've never been more viable than they are now. Everyone is jumping to go on a trip, to go on a holiday to the sun. Everyone's jumping to the pub. So yes, they are very future-proof and viable. However, as a government on behalf of society, it is not desirable for you to carry out your activities. So I do hope that this will be taken into account when it comes to the creditworthiness test and that the government will not now look like an accountant of "for the next two months you are not going to make money on travel, so you will not get the loan." That sounds pretty weedy to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u25	Let's not get mixed up in extremes like this. In the end, it's about taxpayers' money. You have to spend it carefully, but everyone sees what's going on in this industry. So somewhere out there, we're gonna have to find the middle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u26	Agreed. I'm expressing my concerns about what I'm afraid of. It's nice to hear from the Secretary of State that she wants to prevent that too. In addition, I believe that we should look in particular at whether these companies were viable and healthy before corona struck world-wide, which is important in this sector. It's important to include that in that credit check.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u27	Thank you. Mr. Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u28	I am also in favour of that voucher bank, but I note that there are also a number of companies for which the old stock exchange wisdom applies that when the water goes down, it becomes clear who swims without a swimsuit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u29	Hahaha, Mr Moorlag...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u30	And your question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u31	My point is that there are companies, including airlines, that use the prepaid travel amounts or tickets as working capital. To my taste, something really needs to be done about that. My question is another one. I heard the Secretary of State say, if I have listened carefully, that some of the vouchers could be reimbursed. Is that right? That is why I am asking for a letter. What is the exact size of the vouchers issued and what are the guarantees that those vouchers can actually be paid out if consumers make use of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u32	This is a response to the request made by Mr Moorlag at the end of his first term. I think it would be wise to comment on that in a letter, as he also requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u33	I would like to ask for Mr Moorlag, if he agrees, when that letter might be available.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u34	I think I can do that at about five weeks or so. This is something that needs to be done. As I have just said, the sector is diverse and there are several guarantee funds. So it's not something you do in the afternoon. As I said to Mr von Martels, I must also be a little careful with my people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u35	Mr Moorlag, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u36	My question is very simple: what is the outstanding balance of the vouchers and what is the coverage? I think that these data should be quite simple to produce in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u37	Maybe that's part of the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u38	Yeah, but I think five weeks is a long time for such a simple question. But apart from that, did I at least hear the Secretary of State say that some of the vouchers are covered?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u39	I don't think we should be doing this right now. What part does Mr Moorlag mean? I really think this is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u40	No, we're not. Mr Moorlag has heard what he has heard. I suggest that he should try to explain to you what he means and that the answer be included in the letter if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u41	I am really going to do my very best and listen carefully to what Mr Moorlag has asked. And I'll go into that. For example, there is already a difference between package travel and non-package travel to call it a cross street.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u42	I'll come back on the deadline. The Secretary of State says I need five more weeks. She'll give the "judge chamber" motion. It clearly says December 1st, so I would like to ask: can we just keep December 1st as a deadline? That's about five weeks. I respect the officials and I respect the difficulty, but this is not a new matter. This plays as of course since March, April in fact. That's one. The second is: yes, it is tax money, we agree with each other, but it is a credit facility. It's not like we're gonna spend money right now. It is purely a matter that these companies can stay on their feet in this way, so that next year we also have organisations and, as Mr.Aartsen rightly said, we can also enjoy our holidays next year and they can organize our holidays. So can we meet December 1st, and can you clarify it as soon as possible? Especially with the latter in mind, namely: it is not about spending money, it is about guaranteeing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u43	I share your concern and, of course, I see the same thing the Members of Parliament see. At the same time, this discussion has been going on since mid-March. Mr Schonis is right about that. It is also true that we have recently been in a second wave. What it looks like next year, no one knows. What we need to do is exactly what I have just said. I'm not gonna repeat that. We have to put it in the picture, and that's what we're doing, you know. It is not the case that we are going to start with this tomorrow; of course we are already working on it. All those different sides I just mentioned... An implementation organisation must also be set up. You just need a little time to do that. What the sector needs is clarity about whether we are going to do it. Yeah, we're gonna do it, but the question is, how? 'Cause there too... However, Mr President, I am not going to repeat what I have just said, because that is a waste of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u44	You say: I want to clarify quickly. However, I would like to conclude that at least as a directive we are applying that there will be clarity before 1 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u45	I'm gonna do everything I can to get it done. I have said a great deal about this, and I have done it so extensively for a reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u46	Again, I have noted: the motion in part No. 157 gets judgment, Room. Then we'll go to the motion in part no. 158.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u47	That is the Moorlag motion on the vitality of inner cities and the centers of villages. I'm just gonna translate it that way. I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. It is good that we all realise that this is mainly about public space at municipal level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u48	The motion in part No. 158: "Judgment Room."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u49	Then the motion-Moorlag/Aartsen in part No. 159 on a study on the financing structure of the travel sector. It says "independent and expert." Of course, that's always kind of the point. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. It should be noted, however, that this is, of course, something of the industry itself. But I am prepared to support the sector with such an investigation. Then I think I have answered the questions that have been asked between the judgments on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u50	Mr. Moorlag has another question about his own motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u51	I do not think it is the responsibility of the sector itself. There's a public interest at stake here. Consumers finance for and there are companies that use it as working capital. The vulnerability becomes visible. The consumer interest is a public interest, and I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to endorse it and do so actively. But she has given Chamber judgment and I am very grateful to the Secretary of State for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u52	There is absolutely a public interest. Consumer protection is a public interest and there is also a comprehensive legal provision on it. You must try not to draw everything that takes place in society or is done by entrepreneurs towards the government, but that may also be a bit of a political taste.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u53	That's what you come across here in this house. There's hardly any way to avoid that. I'm gonna take a look at Mr. Von Martels. I understand there are still questions to be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u54	I would like to comment on a question which I have asked, but which I do not think has yet been answered. Maybe I missed it, but it's about the little travelers who put up a petition here. I told you, they fall between shore and ship with a lot of regulations. They're dying to have a meeting with the Secretary of State. Has that conversation taken place and if not, can it take place soon?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u55	Let me think, I have to come back to this, because there are all kinds of conversations of recent times in my head and I'm not sure about this. I'm gonna dive in here. Besides, the interests of the small travel organizations are on the retina. Unfortunately, there are many small travel organizations that have a company at home. That makes it difficult in the TVL, but they can call for support in other ways. We are also looking to find a place in the voucher bank for the small travel organizations, because they are part of this research.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u56	I hope I've addressed the subject at least again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u57	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u58	I am curious about a letter or at least a feedback to the Chamber on how that conversation has been and what its findings are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u59	Of course, I can't do all the work of all those fantastic employees at my office on my own. That's why I'm just looking for when and with whom these conversations took place. They're dead. I suggest to your Chamber that, when we give a ruling on the voucher bank, we also include in it what the discussions have been about and what the solutions are, so that the Chamber is informed about them. I recognize Mr von Martels' plea. In this part of our economy, too, it is sometimes to be sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u60	You came to the end of your answer. Thank you very much. This brings an end to this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-10.u61	The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
