ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u1	We will continue with oral Question Time, as usual on Tuesday. We shall begin with Mr Wilders' question on behalf of the PVV to the Minister for Medical Care and Sport, whom I welcome again. The questions are about the corona virus. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Madam President. On 24 January this year Minister Bruins said that there is little chance that the coronavirus will reach Europe. In the meantime, the counter in the Netherlands is already at 382 infected and there are four fatalities to be regretted. That's terrible. Our thoughts are, of course, directed primarily at these victims and their families, whom we wish very much. All over Europe, the corona virus is getting more and more grounded. Many other countries are right to take firm measures, such as Germany, where events are cancelled; the Czech Republic, where border controls are introduced, Israel; where tourists have to leave the country and Austria, which closes the border for people from Italy. The Netherlands is far behind that. Our Prime Minister doesn't get much further than a call to stop shaking each other's hands. Why? Why does the cabinet not take more targeted measures? Why aren't all flights from countries with large virus fires banned immediately? Why are people from those countries allowed in the Netherlands at all? Why aren't major events cancelled and more people aren't being tested? Does this cabinet really think that this virus can be contained with paper tissues and a call for no more shaking hands? How naive you can be! Are we prepared enough in case things get worse? Are there enough intensive care beds? Are you in the process, Mr. Secretary, of expanding hospital capacity, of reopening recently closed hospitals, such as the Slotervaart hospital, of setting up barracks and the like as emergency hospital? Are you making sure that additional protective equipment is manufactured? Are you in the process of asking former carers to return and train volunteers so that they can help in hospitals immediately, if necessary, if the crisis really breaks loose here? How can it be, Madam President, that other countries are taking more action than we are? And, my second question: is the care, in case it escalates further, well in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. We are taking measures to contain the outbreak of the corona virus in the Netherlands. This is what we do with experts who advise us on this point, and we do so by taking appropriate measures to reduce the impact on the one hand and on the other hand, to ensure that normal life can progress as far as possible. Are you looking beyond today's ICU beds? Yes. Are you trying to figure out which volunteers can join in the care? Yes. Are you looking at extra protective equipment? Yes. We always base our measures on experts. We are taking the measures appropriate to the situation, sometimes at the level of the whole country and sometimes at a different level, such as at the level of North Brabant, as was announced yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u5	Of course, this is not the beginning of an answer. So it just keeps shaking at hand. This is an answer to nothing. It reminds me of the Prime Minister, who said yesterday at his press conference, 'We are taking measures that suit the country'. But we don't need any measures that fit the country. We need measures that fit in with the fight against the corona virus. And sticking around in half-sleepy measures, I say to this minister, is very unwise. It's also very dangerous. The government must be certain. The government must do everything in its power to prevent further spread of the virus and do everything in its power to put people in order in the event that the number of infected will increase even more in the near future. Of course, advice from the RIVM is important, but we need more decisive politicians, because otherwise we will be able to help because he is only taking weak measures immediately in the situation in which Italy is now in. And then the damage is incalculable. So I repeat it, and I cannot repeat it enough: the Minister must first make sure that it does not get worse. Ban all flights from high-risk areas. Don't let people from at-risk countries into the Netherlands anymore. Recommend Schengen temporarily and re-enter border controls if necessary. Put Dutch people returning from risk countries in quarantine for two weeks. Forbidden great manifestations. Prohibit events and call people to avoid large groups and gatherings. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, the chairman of the Dutch Association for Intensive Care was on television at Nieuwsuur. He said that there could soon be a problem in the Netherlands with intensive care and the number of isolation beds if the number of infected people continues to grow in the next few weeks. So make sure, Mr. Secretary, that you have sufficient capacity when the time comes. Answer my question if you're prepared to reopen closed hospitals by you. Ensure sufficient test kits. Make sure you have sufficient ventilation equipment. Get me enough hospital staff. Get those volunteers on. Finally, do what is necessary to protect the Netherlands and stop taking those half-baked measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u6	We are taking decisive measures, as I have already said. This also includes the fact that we are looking at the number of ic-beds now and the possibilities for scaling up. This also includes looking at care workers and how we can expand those groups of people, for example with volunteers. We are taking many measures and we are taking them on the basis of expert advice. I think it is very important to continue to emphasise this. These are the appropriate measures for the current situation in the Netherlands with regard to the coronavirus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u8	Am I done? Can I have one final sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u9	If that's what you want, you can do it on behalf of the PVV via the Interrupt Microphone. I now turn to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u10	The Minister says all the time: we are taking appropriate measures. But it is not surprising that the Dutch also look abroad and see what measures are being taken there, for example the removal of events and the restriction of air traffic? In fact, the Minister does not give any substantive answer to the questions that have just been asked. What are the substantive reasons why, for example, in North Brabant, we should think about removing events? What are the substantive reasons for not interfering with air traffic from at-risk areas? Can the Minister also comment on the substance rather than simply say 'appropriate measures'?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u11	We had a wide-ranging debate on this last Thursday. The reason for further measures in North Brabant is that more infected patients have been found there. Then you're going to look in that region in particular, and that's exactly what we're doing. In addition, there is the scaling-up of the measure not to shake hands and we continue to emphasise the hygiene measures. That is important, because these are measures that we can all take in the Netherlands, so that we can all, all 17 million Dutch, contribute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u12	The second question, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u13	This is again not a substantive response to the questions that are being asked. Nor did the Minister do that in the questions put by Mr Wilders, but he is not doing so now in the direction of the SP. Why doesn't the Minister just give a substantive response? The image that emerges is that the cabinet has no clear story for the Chamber about the strategy. What's the strategy? Yesterday, I saw Mrs Merkel on television explain very clearly what her government's strategy is: try to contain where it can, but above all try to avoid the peak pressure in the healthcare system. Furthermore, see if you can buy time so that the outbreak doesn't get too big and we can prepare for the development of a vaccine and the medication. That is a very clear strategy to work on as a government, and I completely miss that in the Minister's story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u14	I refer to last Thursday's debate. At that time I also indicated that we are now in the phase of containment. We want to try to prevent us from entering the next phase. That's the phase of limiting. In that debate, I also pointed out which points are to be found in order to move from one stage to the next. In the Netherlands too, the plans are ready and we are prepared for what is possible. I think it is important to continue to stress the importance of containing this. That is the best way to make sure that we can deal with each other in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u15	Indeed, last week we had a comprehensive and good debate on the step-by-step approach that this cabinet is pursuing. I already asked about events back then. If the number of patients from which it is not clear how they got the virus is growing, can it at some point not be wise to cancel events on a larger scale than is currently the case, as a useful precaution?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u16	This is one of the subjects on which the security regions in Brabant are currently meeting. I expect there will be more to report in the course of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u17	It's good to see there's a minister standing there keeping his head cool. It is true that last week in the debate we exchanged well with each other in what stage we are in. However, I can imagine that there are questions with people. Why do we take a number of measures in Brabant, but not in Utrecht, for example? There are answers to that, but they probably don't reach everyone. Is the Minister prepared to give the public information an extra boost, to boost it, so that the answers to all the questions that exist and to which there are just answers reach as many Dutch people as possible? Then the concerns can be overcome in those cases where there is concern when there is simply an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u18	I understand very well that the whole of the Netherlands wants to know what is coming towards us. At the same time, we do not have a glass ball. But take it from me that we are preparing the measures well and not excluding any measure. On the subject of Mr Veldman, I would very much like to provide you, to your Chamber, but also to the whole of the Netherlands. We will continue to do so. I understand very well that this additional information is being sought. I will make every effort to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u19	A second question, Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u20	This, of course, also affects our economy. We see that some 700 companies have now applied for part-time work, but of course there are other companies andzzp'ers who cannot use this type of measure. If the Minister is the cabinet, I ask him, through this Minister, to look in full terms at the possibilities of supporting companies that are now affected, if necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u21	This is such a concern for the entire cabinet. This has already been discussed yesterday in the wider discussion of the MCCb with several colleagues. So this is addressed. It's a point of the entire cabinet. Mr Koolmees has the lead here, but this is something of the entire cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u22	Last Thursday there was a wide-ranging debate on this subject. In this respect, DENK has asked for special attention for the concerns of Dutch people. Those concerns are perfectly justified when we look at what is happening in Brabant. I want to express my condolences to all those Brabanders who are currently working at home and all those people who are currently infected and their families. Really, completely compassionate on behalf of me and my group! We are now discussing the so-called indam phase. The Minister was just talking about that, too. If we look at what is happening in the Netherlands and what is happening in the countries around us, what is needed to move on to the next stage?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u23	That is one of the points that was exchanged in last week's debate. It's about the number of contact tests that can be done. What capacity is still available at the GGD? That's one moment of such a tilting point. The other is when the list of countries with risk areas becomes infinitely large and long. Then you must note that we are entering that next stage. This is clearly not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u24	A second question, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u25	That's exactly the point. We can see that the number of infections is increasing rapidly at the moment. We can see that there is uncertainty and clarity is especially very important about when people have to report in what way and whether there is sufficient capacity for contact research and so on. Then I cannot escape the impression that we are actually getting into a situation where we really need to think about the next stage. As far as my group is concerned, these concerns are entirely justified in society. When has the time really come for the cabinet to say: we are now in the next stage? Because there is now a lot of uncertainty about that and it would be a good thing for the Minister to clarify a lot of Dutch people who have to deal with this kind of ambiguity. It's the least the minister can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u26	That is exactly what I want: to clarify and to remove the ambiguity. In that debate, I have identified two examples of these tilting moments to show when we can get out of that phase and come into the next phase. Of course, there's not a calendar for that. With all that is in us "in us" we try to stay in this phase of containment in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u27	Last week in the debate I said that 50% of the work is in fact communication and explanation. I can see that's not happening yet. I'm getting a lot of distressed reports. People in border regions in particular do not know where they stand. They see, in a manner of speaking, that events are cancelled a mile away and schools close. People feel insecure. I would like a reply from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u28	I think that point of good information for people in the Netherlands is extremely important. Questions that come back a lot, for example with the contact number, we are going to process again on national government.nl in a Q&A. I think it is important that that information is and remains up-to-date. In this way, I would like to contribute to the removal of concerns. It is therefore an appropriate point for me to make that communication and information more tailor-made for the whole of the Netherlands and sometimes also for more specific target groups, sometimes education, sometimes employers, people in the border area.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u29	Next, there will be a video conference in Europe this afternoon, which will also be attended by the Prime Minister. I am now reading that things that are going to be discussed there have to do with the exchange of information and, together, to see if a next step can be taken with the exchange of knowledge. I'm worried about that. We, as CDA, also asked last week about European cooperation. The Minister has already had two consultations in Europe. Then it can't be that there's still so little alignment about a virus that doesn't keep to borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u30	I was in Brussels last Friday with colleagues, with the health ministers. Once again, I have stressed the importance of working together at European level. At the same time, last time I mentioned the example of tightening up the travel advice for Northern Italy. That was last Thursday. Sometimes you do not want to wait for measures to be taken throughout Europe and you want to take the lead yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u31	From my group, too, I would like to express my deepest sympathy for the people affected by this virus and whose lives suddenly look very different. I have a question about the care staff, because they are extra needed and extra vulnerable during this period. I have just been informed that the Federation of Medical Specialists is asking its members not to participate in major meetings anymore, so wider than in the province of Brabant. Is that a call that the Minister could support? Perhaps it should go to other healthcare providers, to keep them safe and to ensure that they can provide care to the people who need it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u32	The examples are numerous of parties in the Netherlands who are taking measures that I can understand. Mrs Ploumen is asking me to back it up. Then I have to read the measure in detail first. I do not know this measure, but I will look into it and respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u33	In the Netherlands we try to stay calm. We're gonna take care of the corona virus with the step-by-step method. I think that's good, too. We do this on the basis of expert advice. Last week, the Minister explained this in detail in the debate. At the same time, people feel that we are always one step behind in this step-by-step approach. Of course, this is also due to the messages we hear from abroad. My question to the Minister is: how can he reassure people? Does he understand the concerns? How can he reassure people that we're not one step behind, but that we're really doing everything we can to contain the virus?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u34	I think two things are very important for that. One, ensure that we provide the right information and address more and more specifically the questions and answers of certain groups in society. That's one way. On the other hand, I get a lot of questions: what can I do for myself and what can I do for myself? Then it's about hygiene measures, like washing hands, sneezing in the inside of your elbow and not shaking hands anymore. In this way, we can all contribute in the Netherlands to contain the corona virus in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u35	One of the questions that has just been asked that has not been answered is: why is there no more testing? I imagine the answer to that is: we do not have enough tests. My question to the Minister is: what is the state of play with these test kits? Do we have enough of that? On the other hand, I also get a lot of signals from people who are sick at home and who are not being tested. Then I wonder if the figures of the number of infections that RIVM delivers every day... I suspect that the actual figure is much higher because not everyone is being tested. What does the Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u36	I answer the last question first: I fully trust the RIVM figures. An important cornerstone of our policy is that we base our policy on the experts of the GGD and RIVM. As for the question about the test kits, we follow that closely. They're still here right now, but you understand it's getting tighter. I don't have an exact number of them right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u37	I also rely on RIVM, but when people are sick at home who aren't being tested, they don't count. Can you imagine that the actual number is likely to be much higher?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u38	I trust the RIVM figures and I think it is very important that we continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u39	This is a national crisis. It is important for the cabinet to be calm and it is also important for us to do so as a Chamber. We must not increase the panic and we must have confidence in the measures that the experts are now announcing for the short term. But the confidence of the people and of the Chamber, which the Minister also has from our group, must be maintained. For that, it is important that you provide insight into the strategies and scenarios in case it escalates further. Questions have rightly been raised about this today, for example about hospital capacity. How do you want to scale it up? In a crisis, you always have to weigh things up. What information do you give and what information do you not give? I would like to call on the Minister to provide information on the way in which the Netherlands is preparing. Do we have enough hospital beds later? Are we now taking all the steps to buy new medical equipment on the market? Because that's what the whole world is doing. The Minister must take an extra step in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u40	I'm touched by this question. In last week's debate, I indicated that we are in the situation of containment. The follow-up phase is limited. What measures does this include? Can you go from isolation rooms to more cohort care? I had a bit of an exchange of views on that in the debate. We are looking for opportunities to broaden and supplement this information, for example on national government.nl.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u41	In such a crisis that we are now in, the most important thing is that there is no panic. That's why it's important that you communicate that to the Netherlands. I also followed last week's debate. And that's what it's all about, but we've been a week. The world is very, very different again. I would like to point out that I would like to make an urgent appeal not only to communicate on the measures we need to take today, but also on what steps are being taken to ensure that we are ready when it escalates. Also give daily or weekly updates, as many as possible. Take people in what happens. Keep the Netherlands calm.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u42	Keep it calm, but also keep it informed. That's why we're looking for which information fits best. For example, we are currently providing additional information on the additional measures we are taking in Brabant. That's what it's all about. But I understand Mr Klaver's question. I would like to address that, not only with regard to today's information, but also with regard to tomorrow's.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u43	Last weekend, many people were shocked by reports from Italy that older people are left to their own devices and are no longer hospitalized for 80 years. My question to the Minister is: is it true that the Dutch Association for Intensive Care is also working on a roadmap in the Netherlands to possibly not include older people in the hospital in the intensive care department? Can the Minister guarantee that no one in the Netherlands will be left to his own devices, i.e. no elderly people, but also, for example, no chronically ill and cancer patients?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u44	This is exactly what the policy is aimed at. We want to try to ensure that care is and remains good throughout the Netherlands. Of course, people who are older or have multiple illnesses among the members are the most vulnerable. We want to make sure that care is and remains available to them with all that is in us. The same applies to people infected with the corona virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u45	On behalf of my group, too, I would like to express my condolences to all those who are now at home. Thank you to the Minister for the reply and the commitment to share further information. My question concerns coordination at European level. We have just heard the Minister say a few times: at this stage everything is intended to contain the spread of the virus further. At the same time, we see that different European Member States are now taking other measures. Austria closes the border for Italy, but via Slovenia you can still go from Italy to Austria. Denmark closes the airspace for flights from at-risk areas, while in the Netherlands that choice is left to airlines. How does the Minister assess this different approach when it comes to international travel? What are his efforts to reach a clear line at European level, so that we do so in the field of international travel?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u46	What does the Netherlands do? This also applies to the fact that we talked about this last Friday in Europe, to see what we can do right away. I see a number of parties are doing that. I also see a number of parties failing to do so. In the Netherlands, we continue to focus our policy on the information we receive from experts such as RIVM. That is exactly what the WHO recommends to us. I still think it's the right choice to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u47	I asked the questions. I must say that the Minister's answers are far from satisfactory. I asked specific questions. How's the care coming? Is the Slotervaart hospital reopened again? Why are we still landing airplanes from those virus fireplaces? Why do we allow people from these countries? There's no answer to all these questions. There's gonna be an answer from a bureaucrat. During perhaps the biggest public health crisis in the Netherlands for decades, the minister behaves as a bureaucrat, as the ventriloquist of the RIVM. You don't have to. You have to do things proactively to make the Netherlands better, to make the Netherlands safer. I do not have a question, but a comment: I hope you will do so. And if you don't, please let someone else do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u48	Last Thursday, I think, we spent the whole day debating the measures we are taking here in the Netherlands. That's all in the preparation of experts, GGD and RIVM. But let there be no mistake that these are all measures that I am defending from the cabinet against your Chamber. I intend to continue with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u49	A better proof of my thesis is hardly possible. Once again, the Minister does not go into all the proposals I have mentioned. He's just saying, we're taking the right measures. The Dutch have to believe that this is the case. Why does Austria close the border with Italy? Why does France close schools? Why does Israel stop letting tourists in or quarantines tourists? Why? Why doesn't the Netherlands do that? Those are people's questions, Mr. Secretary. You come up with robotic answers. You come up with robotic answers. We need a man who fights for the health of the Netherlands. But you're standing there... Yeah, I don't know about you, but it's not much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u50	With everything in me, I'm trying to keep the corona virus as small as possible. There is no other topic on the agenda that requires so much attention, not just from me, but from a multitude of healthcare professionals around us. That is the most important task for the Netherlands. I'm just gonna keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u51	Thank you.
