ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u1	I open the meeting of the House of Representatives of Wednesday 27 May 2020. The next item is the debate on ending the childcare allowance. I welcome all Members of Parliament, and in particular the Secretary of State for Finance, this is your first debate, and above all the people who are following this debate in a different way, because I can remember the last debate. The public gallery was full of parents and people involved. I'm afraid that's not possible because of corona measures, but I'm sure they're following us. I actually wanted to give Mrs Leijten the floor, but Mr Omtzigt is at the interrupting microphone. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is indeed a good thing that you welcome the parents, because they are watching in large numbers to see how we are taking a step forward to solve their misery. Last night we received a number of documents. That's not too late, because we didn't ask them until the end of last week. I understand that, but those documents are very interesting. We received a timeline last month. You can't read it. This is the smallest font ever conceived, 3.5 points, and not everything is readable. So we would like to ask if we can just get the original spreadsheet, so we can read it, because some boxes have also fallen away, plus the underlying documents. We got word from the ADR that the ADR documents just didn't get it. This is a very strange country, where the report on the management of Supplements is simply gone. These are eight pieces that are quite important, because that is where the whole decision on this policy was taken. They're a bitch. So we would like to have it during the debate. We were also told that the Director-General of the Tax Administration had done a draft investigation. That was very interesting. We would also like to see that concept research here to see what came out of it at the end of last year. That is what we would like to receive during this debate. I thought: if I ask for that for the debate, then there is a little more time than when I do it in my own time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u3	Let me take a look at the Secretary of State: Is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u4	I will see which of these documents we can deliver quickly. I will make the documents available as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u5	Then that's a deal too. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP. Speaking time is six minutes. I'd like to agree with you that in the first term of the Chamber, you can ask each other four questions. Then that's the deal, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u6	You know I always respect your leadership, Mr. Chairman, but I'll also look at the edges if I have to. That's what's needed in this file.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u7	Good morning! Okay, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u8	To make a very small mistake, failure to provide evidence or failure to respond to a letter, many corrupted parents have been identified as fraud. Intentionally or with gross guilt not following the law was blamed on them. For the child care allowance, only a small mistake is enough to doubt someone's good faith. In an internal work instruction it says: make sure that it is properly reported, otherwise it will not be sustainable for the courts. If you were labeled a fraud, all the help stopped. Then everything was collected. You didn't get a payment settlement. Couldn't be forgiven. This has ruined human lives. We know the stories, and every time, I'm terrified of what these people have cost me. They got punched on the fist, they were defenseless on the ground and they were kicked. Now we're here. However, the set-up / gross debt has been looked at before. In April 2019, the Council of State said that this qualification was disproportionately used. I was promised by Menno Snel that Donner would look at that scheme/great debt mechanism. Donner didn't do that. Donner has told us in a private conversation, but the report is public: for all those who have been dealt with outside the fraud investigation, he was based on normal legal protection, but precisely that qualification "set-up/great debt" sets out all legal protection. How could Donner have done such a bad job? And how is it possible that this is the basis on which these parents are supposedly compensated or not compensated? Beware: 2,000 parents will be compensated with that compensation, but almost 20,000 parents will only get their money back. But they went through the same thing. They must now prove that they were entitled to child care allowance 10 to 12 years ago and that the Tax Office did not do this properly. They have to prove it. This arrangement puts those parents 10-0 behind; it's a legal swamp. So today's appeal to the Secretary of State, turn it around. If the IRS has no evidence that you're a fraud, that you can be blamed for intent or gross guilt, then the IRS must plead guilty and then those parents must be compensated. I also make the call: give people advances if necessary. There are still so many in the financial shit and they see on the news that billions are going to businesses, while they are still being approached as "there will still be something wrong." Mr. Chairman. What haven't we seen coming up lately? A black list, a risk selection that is not good, a tax report and none of this shocking has emerged by Donner's advisory committee and by the Ministry itself; it has been investigative journalism over and over again. How does the Secretary of State look at that? Why didn't Donner look at the political responsibility? There's a business case of fraud that we've finally gotten public after long drags. It said: we're gonna perform hard, rücksichtslos. It also included the "all or nothing" story. And do you know who approved this? Prime Minister Rutte on the Council of Ministers. Actually, there should be a report against his cabinets. Parents are already being rejected for compensation this week. And how? Yesterday, Pieter Ommzigt and I received answers to parliamentary questions. It's so complex to compile the files, that those parents haven't gotten it yet. They've been waiting ten months for it, but it's been decided for a while: you're not eligible for compensation. How? You can't do that. Who judged that and on what basis? And now they can appeal and object. Let's not do it! Why is it assumed that the CAF 11 study, which was the first opinion, should be the measure of things? Some parents got a file. I'm sitting there reading it. It's really such piles of...... and I see things in there that the dogs don't like bread. And who's to say CAF 11 should be the measure? Donner says so, but who's Donner? Donner did a bad job. Your compensation scheme is based on quicksand. I really wonder if we haven't learned anything from Groningen. Say sorry, but don't fix the damage. It's illegal to give Exxon and Shell $90 million, but to let people live in unsafe houses. Is this the Dutch government? Don't let the supplemental affair become Groningen 2. It can't be. It can't be for those parents. It cannot be for the authority of us as Chamber and politics. But it can't be for the IRS either. There's a bomb exploded from the declarations. There are so many people who work in good faith, but who are in their shirt because a political cover-up has been created that is still not open. Once again, Mr. Ommzigt stands to ask for additional pieces. It is quite clear to me that we must investigate it ourselves and conduct a parliamentary survey. I don't understand why there's no support for that in this Chamber. But today, Mr President, I will fight for this compensation scheme, because it cannot be that we leave the Chamber and that the compensation scheme, based on Donner's quicksand advice, will remain in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I would just like to make a small comment. I think Mr Donner was chairman of an advisory committee. So his name will be mentioned a few times in that context, but otherwise, I think, it is a bit difficult because Mr Donner is not part of the debate. And yes, I thought so, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u10	No, Mr. Donner doesn't want to be part of the debate, but he did accept this assignment. He didn't talk to parents. He hasn't looked at any files, and he even wants to talk to this room behind closed doors. His name may be mentioned as former minister and as minister of state.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u11	His name may certainly be mentioned. That's what I'm saying. Only, when it comes to all kinds of qualifications and so on, it's a little complicated. Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK. Shall I include this interruption, Mrs Leijten? No, no, don't come to the interrupt microphone again!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u12	It was not a question to one of our colleagues, but to you, so it does not count formally, I think. Mr. Chairman. How many more debates are needed? How many more tests are there to follow? How much suffering remains to be made visible? How much more evidence is needed before this Secretary of State moves to clean up the mess? 'Cause a mess, that's it. What does this cabinet and the Secretary of State need to finally act fairly and fairly with regard to the thousands of doomed parents and their children? If there's one thing that turns out to be true, it's that those parents and those doomed are tired. They're done. They're broken. In this premium crime case, people have been ruined and his marriages destroyed. People have been dragged financially to the edge of the abyss. I talked to a parent who said I got a one-way ticket to hell from the IRS, and I'm so desperate to get out of there. Until 2017, Supplements on the CAF were free to go. The officials involved violated at least three laws and they played the game mean and ruthless. They put a stop to fees when they weren't allowed to. Citizens became unclear, inaccurate and not informed in time. On objections that normally have to be dealt with in six weeks, they did a year and a half. And in the meantime, the citizens were allowed to put it up. Mr. Chairman. Following many complaints, Ombudsman Reinier van Zutphen presented a destructive report on the CAF 11 case in 2017, following complaints from, among others, attorney Eva González Pérez. He said it was in English, but I'm just gonna translate it: "It wasn't a fair game, it was a power game." And he said, "The Tax Administration has put parents in an impossible position, in great financial difficulties and in long-term uncertainty and in breach of the law because of this unsophisticated approach." The Council of State later ruled in roughly the same terms. The discontinuation was incorrect and decisions were not justified. The Tax Administration acted in violation of the law and the principle of care was violated. Citizens weren't able to do the right thing because they didn't know what they were doing wrong. Mr. Chairman. When you heard this suit bit him three years ago as a parent, you thought, "Hey, it's gonna be okay." But nothing could be further from the truth. From that time on, the Tax Administration continued to sue, there were very poor excuses and the Secretary of State did not give home. The then political leadership looked at it and tolerated it. The criminal act was obscured by a lack of force, courage and empathy. As Secretary of State Snel said, "I was in the tunnel of one's own right." On 11 June 2019, the Secretary of State had a conversation with the deceased parents. Then I thought, "The quarter's gonna fall." He said, "The measure of man is lost in sight. A benevolent look has been lacking. There has been talk of inappropriate governance and in the future I want to prevent that." He launched a number of investigations. The Donner Committee investigated the method of payment and also had to propose a compensation scheme. The ADR was commissioned to investigate 149 cases, some 9,000 of them being duped. The Personal Data Authority shall investigate the abuse of second nationality. Finally, in a report that we discussed earlier, Donner comes up with two remarkable words: 'institutional bias'. That sounds decent and it'll all be administratively responsible, but what does it really mean? I don't think it means anything but: having the judgment ready before you know the facts. I just looked it up. Mr. Chairman. If you can't handle the raw reality of professional discrimination and the taking of money, then you come up with words that make it bearable. I ask the Secretary of State: why didn't the Donner Commission investigate that blacklist? The Secretary of State, Mrs Van Huffelen, filed a complaint against her own Tax Office last Tuesday. It concerned the presumption of occupational discrimination and gags. I realize that this is painful for the organization, for the Tax Administration, and it causes great unrest, because there are thousands of people there who do the right thing every day. But unfortunately it is necessary. I do ask how it is possible that all these internal and external investigations have not produced what a law firm actually concludes, with a very limited file. How is that even possible? What is the Secretary of State going to do to help the D.A. investigate the facts? When can the decision of the D.A. be expected to prosecute or not? Can the Secretary of State state whether, on the basis of the declaration made, persons will also be prosecuted? Is this only about the officials concerned, or is this also about Wiebes and Asscher, who at the time held the highest political responsibility? Mr. Chairman. What's the next move? The DENK Group asks the Secretary of State to clean up this mess and put an end to professional discrimination and take money from civil servants. Also put an end to that maze of procedures. The most important thing the DENK Group asks of the Secretary of State is to implement a fair compensation scheme that is wider than Donner proposes. This one's really too skinny. Too many people are out of the boat. Forty objections have already been raised, because already disabled parents have no confidence. DENK asks the Secretary of State to return their file to all of the parents who have been injured. Finally, DENK asks to conduct a thorough and honest investigation into the suspicions of abuse and violations of laws and to act accordingly. Article 1 of the Constitution states that everyone should be treated equally in equal situations. There is no enforcer of the Constitution other than the Lower House itself. Finally, therefore, I would like to ask the Secretary of State once again: renounce racism and discrimination and speak out for equality and equality. What can the Secretary of State do to get these central principles between all ears in the Tax Administration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u13	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many parents' lives have been completely destroyed. They were thrown away as frauds when they hadn't done anything wrong. The IRS has abused its power over lives. There have been a lot of abuses. The Ombudsman pointed out, but did not act accordingly. Journalists have pointed it out, but it has not been acted upon. Parliament, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Azarkan and Mr Leijten, have pointed this out, but it has still not been resolved. Mr. Chairman. A year ago, the then Secretary of State made his sincere apologies to the parents for the abuse committed or the misery suffered. We are now a year ahead and still, despite the greatest recognition you can do as politically administratively, it has not been resolved. That is why the PvdA Group did not support the installation of the Donner Committee at the time. I think that nobility is mandatory. If you acknowledge this as Secretary of State, as Minister Wopke Hoekstra then joined it, then I think you should also find a solution as soon as possible. I understand very well that there are a lot of parents who do not understand why it takes so long before they are finally done justice. I draw the same parallel as Mrs Leijten: today is also the debate on Groningen, 2012, quakes in Huizinge. That was also about at the same time as those parents had the trouble. Again and again, to the Prime Minister, it has been acknowledged how wrong the government was and how fundamental human rights have been violated. That is also the case here. And yet it hasn't been solved. Every time there are legal and procedural arguments: "We're waiting for an opinion," "We're moving on," "It's difficult." But when you look at what is possible in this time of corona when the need is really to the man, you see what can be done if you really have to. The PvdA Group has also supported this, especially the first emergency package. The next emergency package will be discussed tomorrow. I ask the Secretary of State why this did not happen here. Why is it so incredibly long before parents are compensated before their rights are done? Why are they always divided into different CAF groups, with different causes? One parent has been in trouble because of the harsh application of the law and the other because of unlawful action by the government. I get that there are all kinds of differences. But why does it take so long for parents to finally get clarity, clarity and a solution? I think it's the prime task of the Secretary of State to solve this. I am sure the Secretary of State will agree. I don't think the letter we received yesterday is acceptable. It says that it will certainly take until 2021 for parents to have clarity. I believe that the Secretary of State should personally ensure that this happens much faster, more reasonable and fairer. Parents have waited long enough. Parents have been in trouble long enough. Mr. Chairman. I would like to draw your attention to a second point. That is the issue of discrimination, which is also reflected in the report of the Audit Service. People in the Netherlands should be able to rely on the government to act unbiasedly. Article 1 of the Constitution does not prohibit discrimination by public authorities for nothing. Discrimination is happening all the time in society, you only have to look for an internship as an MBO or as a tenant a home. We all know that there is a lot of discrimination, but the government should never do that. The Audit Service, however, simply notes that it happened and that nationality is a selection criterion. Again, we are waiting a very long time for an investigation by the Dutch Data Protection Authority. That's all nice and kind. I welcome the fact that an investigation is taking place, but in the meantime it appears that nationality was still in the selection criteria until a few weeks ago. How is that possible? We were assured that this was no longer the case. How did this happen until one or two weeks ago? It was taken out on a Saturday. How is this possible? Hasn't anyone said to the political summit, or internally, "guys, we discriminate here, we can't do that"? There have been signs of this for so long. Everyone who knows the parents knows it's not just a select group. That has now proved to be the case, but those suspicions were long ago. How is it that this has not been resolved for so long and that there has therefore been discrimination by the government? This is very serious. Mr. Chairman. I come to the third and final point I would like to make. The PvdA Group appreciates that the Secretary of State has a lot of conversations with parents. My impression is that she is very personally involved and moved to find solutions. I think it is also important as a political director to speak to people and to see and know what is happening, in order to make the right decisions. I would ask the Secretary of State to step up his efforts to ensure that officials are still able to do their job. The reports we receive are, of course, that officials are concerned about whether they can vouch for them when they make a decision, or that they still get the member on the nose. There are, of course, a lot of decisions to be made, also for the benefit of parents. People still have to want to do that. I'm a little worried about that when I see the messages. I get it, too. I ask the Secretary of State, who would like to have a safe culture within the Tax Office, whatever is necessary for parents to get compensation, how she will ensure that culture is guaranteed. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u15	Mrs Leijten, and then Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u16	I think the PvdA is right to point out the commitment of the Secretary of State, including the civil servants. I said something about that too. However, I would like to ask a question about our own political role and about the previous cabinet. I said it sharply: in fact, we need to file a report against Rutte II. That cabinet decided, in the ministerial committee, on fraud. How does the Labour Party view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u17	I only report people if I have direct instructions. That's not what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u18	Then let me ask the question differently. We've received a series of pieces that the Ministry of Social Affairs has shared with the Donner Committee. Those pieces really seem very occult. There are texts of speech, suggestions for speech texts for Minister Asscher, that he would be in consultation with then Secretary of State Wiebes to remove proportionality from the recovery of childcare allowance. And then there's this piece above it: the minister never got there. Mr Nijboer has been an official for a long time. If speaking texts are being prepared, a great deal of political preparation has already been made. Does the Labour Party not think that this should also be the bottom line and that the Ministry of Social Affairs should also turn things upside down when it comes to their role in the supplementing affair?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u19	Yes, and I believe that the Chamber has asked the same question and I am now asking the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State must reply either on behalf of the Ministry of Social Affairs or we have a debate on this once with the Minister for Social Affairs, because I think Mrs Leijten is entitled to all the information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u20	However, I would like to mention the responsibility of the previous cabinet and in particular that of the Minister for Social Affairs. So there was or was not a memo in the Minister's bag about a solution to the harsh policy regarding the childcare allowance. We already knew that. But today we also see the news of investigative journalists from Follow the Money. It shows that Minister Asscher knew from the hat and the edge that he knew how hard this policy worked, that he was in the process of changing the law, not the hardness clause, but the financing system, with the aim of reducing the restrictive policy. What is Mr Nijboer's assessment of this action?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u21	My judgment on the performance and the law is as follows. It's ridiculous that if you make a small mistake with the report, you'll have to pay back in full. We should have been against that. As far as I am concerned, the Chamber should have insisted at the time on adapting it. And of course the Minister should have done better afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u22	But the Minister didn't go through with that change of law. The minister knew what was going on, but he didn't go through with it. That went under the wheels, knowing how hard parents were affected by it. And what is the verdict of Mr Nijboer? Does Mr Nijboer agree with me that if Minister Asscher had simply done his job and submitted that amendment of the law, we could have avoided a great deal of misery for a lot of parents?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u23	I think if that law had been changed, a lot of misery could have been avoided. I think that at the time the Chamber was even more important, I am sure, because I was also in the Chamber only dealing with Bulgarian fraud. I have had a debate with Secretary of State Weekers in which time and time again the law on childcare allowances was tightened up. All they asked for was tightening up. I myself once again asked as a Member of Parliament: is that not too much and what about legal certainty? But there was little support for it, not even from GroenLinks at the time. That was what Parliament was asked to do. And the answers said it was known that's how the law worked. Only the Chamber did not ask for it or force it to change. I agree with you that that should have happened. Of course I agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u24	Mr. Snels, a third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u25	I got that law history back in the fall. The tightening up of those fraud provisions in the Awir was really messed up. It was Mr Omtzigt who tabled amendments to relax and soften him. GroenLinks voted in favour of it. The PvdA voted against it. All three of Mr Omtzigt's amendments! I checked that because I wanted to know for myself what the responsibility of the Chamber was. But here we are talking about the responsibility of the Minister for Social Affairs, because we did not know that as a Chamber. All those signals about how hard and how hard and how hard this worked out for parents, the Chamber didn't know. And it is only now that we are getting information that that information was there, but that the amendment of the law has not been carried through. And that's what I'm asking your opinion on. And do you think that it should also come up to the table why that has not been continued, what was the background to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u26	I think it should come up, so I'm gonna ask the Cabinet for that information, too. But I do oppose the idea that parents have been wronged, knowingly and knowingly; that is not proven. But if that's the case, then it should come up. That statement has not been proven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u27	Finally, Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u28	In fact, it is simply written in public letters and information: the cabinet, the administrative summit, politics and the administration, they knew that the good would suffer the evil. That 80/20 rule from the Tax Administration, the execution, that was just politically known, that was the goal! In fact, a business case came up with an incentive for the department: you need to go after the fraud money, because we're cutting the Social Affairs budget. That's all PvdA policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u29	Mr. Chairman. It's like a political game. That 80/20 rule is a hell of a scandal. It has nothing to do with the case of Mr Snels' first three interruptions, because that was about the law. That 80/20 rule meant: we're gonna get those people behind the rags, and 20% wouldn't get those surcharges wrongly. That was never agreed by the Chamber, it should never have happened, it was carried out by the Tax Administration. I agree with Mr Snels: it is a dirty game, to put it together with a law that was far too harsh and should never have been introduced in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u30	It's right...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u31	It's all unheard of. I know the emotions are getting high, but anyone who wants to say anything can just go to the interrupting microphone. A point of order. Mr. Ommzigt, really a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u32	A fact; then you can deduct it from my speaking time. The PvdA voted in favour of this law, tabled by the Cabinet of the Labour Party. I have tabled three amendments to this, for example that a family should not wait 26 weeks, but should wait a maximum of 9 weeks for a decision to be taken on a child care allowance. The PvdA voted against everything. The proposals were here. You didn't even file them yourself. You rejected them all. And I ask the Labour Party what it thinks of that now, when it says so big: we should have done this differently; we could have done this differently, in part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u33	That is not a point of order, it is simply a question from Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u34	I believe that this law should never have been passed in this way, and I agree with Mr Omtzigt. I'm also in favour of changing the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u35	Mr. Nijboer and I were both in that room. I've put forward all kinds of proposals here to say, guys, we're going crazy here. And that was what Mr Nijboer just said: the whole Chamber was doing that. Except us. But what I am saying here is that there were proposals here, some of which, indeed, on the right-hand side, said to me 'this is too hard for parents, we should not do that'. They were rejected at the time. Just: oh, it's from the opposition, we're just voting against it. Exactly what you constantly blame the present cabinet for. Everything was voted down. Parents now sometimes have to wait 26 weeks before they get a decision on childcare allowances. Well, then your chance to get a job is already gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u36	Yeah, that could be. I do not, of course, have those amendments at the time. My colleague Mr Groot had that debate with you at the time. But I very much agree with you that the law is far too harsh, and should have been amended or otherwise adopted as hard. I agree with you, and I fully recognise that. But I am saying that there is now really going to be a political debate, of 'the PvdA has done everything'. You can, at your service. We've ruled and we've made mistakes, I'll admit all of that. But the CDA, of course, has also taken the lead in this Bulgarian fraud and in all these cases, with the words:'very hard against fraud'; 'no matter what, you have to catch 'em'. And that also fits a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u37	Yes. And there is something very simple in the rule of law: you tackle fraud and you give people the opportunity to appeal it when a decision is taken. So the CDA is tough on dealing with fraud. And that is not contrary to simply removing legal remedies for ordinary citizens. Moreover, even if these citizens are migrant workers, it doesn't matter. Because the IRS can always make a mistake. He makes mistakes, and that's not a big deal. But pretending that's exactly the same thing, I don't think it's neat. It's not like anyone here is saying we shouldn't fight fraud. There is no one here who says that we should not ensure that citizens are no longer wronged. Then a conscious choice was made. I've been doing pretty hard here in the Chamber, because everyone was looking at me: you were in for the fight against fraud, weren't you? But I said, what's going on here, you mustn't do it like this. We also had these amendments distributed during the debate last time, so Mr Nijboer is also familiar with that. At that time, he simply voted against it, so that this policy continued for years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u38	Mr Omtzigt and I agree. Legal protection belongs in every law. Fraud must be combated. And those amendments... I cannot judge them exactly, but that law should never have been passed as it was adopted at the time. I agree with Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u39	I fully agree with Mr Nijboer that politics should look at itself, but there are, of course, facts which the previous cabinet knew, which Minister Asscher and Minister Dijsselbloem knew, but which this Chamber did not know. Because we were only recently part of all the investigations of the fraud team's business case. In fact, we did not know that five years ago there was a distress signal from the Tax Administration to the Minister of SZW: beware, this law is unfair. That knowledge didn't have this room. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u40	I don't know exactly what the Chamber knew when. I do know that even then, even at that time, parents had to pay back fees when they had only made a small mistake. I know that it has been brought to court, that the Council of State has held that it was right, that there have been debates in the Chamber, that it has been extremely harsh and that the Chamber has ultimately, at least by a majority, been insisting that it has taken place. And now I say, why didn't the Chamber force that that law be changed and that things would be different? I think it's a little... We're all MPs. I wasn't a tax spokesman at the time, but that doesn't matter at all. We could have forced it as a Chamber, but we were always content with the cabinet's answers. The Council of State confirmed statements, so it was good and the Tax Administration was on the right side. This is not the case after all. The Tax Administration acted unlawfully and the Council of State had to return to its own rulings.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u41	This is true, but this was not my question. The room didn't know things. I think it would be a good idea for Mr Nijboer to acknowledge that. For example, what we did not know was the following: a memo from the Directorate-General of the Tax Administration to the State Secretary: "The claim has been delayed, because we were in consultation with the Ministry of Social Security and Social Security if they wanted to apply for the scheme in favour of supplementaries. Otherwise, this would make the recovery very difficult. At the beginning of this month it appeared that Social Affairs did not intend to do so." This room didn't know that. That distress signal from the IRS five years ago, which could have prevented five years of misery, this Chamber didn't know about it. The last cabinet knew that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u42	In fact, I have seen that Secretary of State Wiebes wrote: "We have to adapt this. We need to change this. Come and propose." They never came to the room. That is very sad and serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u43	Of course, it's not all the PvdA's fault.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u44	Almost all of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u45	You can't rub them with that much. But it's very specific. In the dividend debates, we spoke with each other and with the Prime Minister. He said he didn't have any active memory. We didn't have much time to worry about that. It wasn't very credible, because in the end those memos turned out to be there. Now former Minister Asscher says that he has also become a bit forgetful. How credible does Mr Nijboer think that is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u46	Well, I think the introduction is so... He doesn't say he's forgotten. He says that those official documents that pointed this out have not reached him to his best knowledge. But how can you be sure that with all those thousands of papers you get, you've never seen a piece? To his best knowledge, it's not like that. The department needs to find out. I would also ask the Secretary of State to clarify this. Has that been there or not? What's the verdict? I also think that the Chamber is entitled to know that. So I totally agree. That's not a problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u47	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u48	I think the Chamber is entitled to know that. But I also find it very difficult to say... There are officials who have said: we may put a note in the bag; he has known and has deliberately chosen something else. But I've also seen Secretary of State Wiebes really set out a political line of "solve it."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u50	I don't think it's very likely that things would have gone differently either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u51	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking again today about the surcharge affair, a black page in the functioning of the government, where last week the declaration after the second opinion was added. An inevitable but very painful step. A step which must now contribute to further clarifying what has happened and whether or not there have been criminal offences. If so, then the Public Prosecutor will act on that; I assume so. I want to talk today primarily about the solution for parents. There are reports from the Donner Committee on this matter. I agree with the Secretary of State's statement that she is adopting these opinions and that they are extending the target group of the people who are being compensated, who are getting their money back for the all-or-nothing policy because of the severity of the scheme. It goes back in time and it is also going to lower the EUR 10,000 limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u53	When I started a hotline this summer, I saw very quickly that it was much wider than that CAF fraud detection and that people who came for the wheels had something at all, namely that they were blamed for intent or gross guilt. The previous Secretary of State, Menno Snel, told me that Donner would look at the legal protection of people who have been dealt with outside the fraud investigations. Donner didn't study that. How does D66 feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u54	In fact, I have a question about how the Secretary of State deals with cases, apart from the CAF 11 comparability, in which it would appear that, either by a blacklist or by ethnic profiling, when the research comes from the AP, people there have been manipulated in a generic sense. What is the scope of the regulation that it now has to make customization of it? So I think it's in that quadrant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u55	The last question, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u56	Then these parents can beg again, they have to do their whole story again and they have to wait and see. We can turn it around, can't we? If the IRS doesn't have a report on why someone's a fraud, then he's pleading guilty and someone's eligible for compensation. It's in an internal work instruction: make sure you have proper arguments, or it'll die in court. With those parents, there's just no documentation. The IRS doesn't know why they've been made a fraud. And Donner didn't investigate. D66 can't agree to this quicksand recommendation, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u57	I think you are saying here: this particular element has not been investigated. By the way, that you don't get a payment arrangement on intent or gross debt goes off the table, too, or that's off the table even now. That's perfectly right. I know you've drawn a lot of attention to this. My question to the Secretary of State was: I think you have asked him, in a slightly different way, how is this type of thing taken into account in the final choice whether people are getting their money back, or whether there is grounds for greater compensation than getting that amount back? So I think that question in different terms is the question I asked. What scope do the hardness arrangements and safety net arrangements provide for at that point where the State Secretary mentions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u58	A word about the Donner report, which is being embraced and which I think D66 is now good for. How do you view the fact that Mr Donner was Vice President of that Council of State from 2012 until the end of 2018, while the Council of State has been defending the tax administration's line to the utmost? And that we now hear that Mr Donner knew everything about the problems at the surcharges, but didn't write anything about them in his report? How do you judge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u59	We find it difficult. We have found Mr Donner willing to lead that committee, together with Mrs Kleinsma and a professor. This has led to a report on which the Secretary of State is building. Questions about that report can always be asked. For example, Mrs Leijten's question on intent and gross guilt. But in all honesty, I don't really need to go into the track record of Minister Donner here. If we want to talk to him about his political role, as far as I am concerned, we should talk to him about it, not him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u60	My colleague has just made a track record about Mr Asscher, and rightly so. Why should we not do that with Mr Donner, who has proven to know a lot, not write anything in his report, but with a lot of bombs, when he presents his report, but if we want to ask questions, he has to do so somewhere in the back room and the parents are afraid to face it. You can judge that, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u61	Well, in fact, I already said in that conversation that I deeply regretted that the conversation could not take place in public, that I participated in it because I thought it was so important to learn from the report, but that I thought it was a very bad thing. By the way, every colleague who was there has said so. I just think that there is a difference between whether I am having a political debate with someone who is a politician about what happened in a ministry or whether it is about the functioning of the Vice-President of the Council of State. I think it's a complicated question. I understand you're asking him, but let's ask Mr Donner that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u62	A third question, Mr. Edgar Mulder?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u63	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u64	Okay. Proceed, Mr. Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u65	Thank you, Mr President. I do have a number of questions about the design of both arrangements. We're also going to deal with a bill. A draft decision has also been sent to the Chamber in recent days. The first question is the following. Due to the changes made by the Secretary of State, there is a much larger group which must now be examined on a case-by-case basis. That, I think, has consequences for the timetable. How is the Secretary of State going to outline the timeline for the parents? Because the inevitable conclusion when you help more people is that it's gonna take longer, I'm afraid. How is the Secretary of State going to give transparency about the timetable? A lot of parents long for their justice to be done and that they receive that money. Can communication with these parents be intensified? We have seen, I also saw the open letter, that there are still a lot of concerns about that. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that the most distressing group is also helped first? Those are not automatically the people in charge of the highest amounts. Many of them belong to that group, but they can also be people who may not be worth €100,000, but on whom it has a very big impact. How's the Secretary of State gonna make that assessment? The second question concerns the group for 2009. A lot of those people have an incomplete file at the IRS. The Secretary of State warns that it will be an imperfect solution. But how is she gonna do everything about it? I read that the childcare organisation is being contacted to do justice to as many of these parents as possible. Mr. Chairman. What are we going to do if, in the light of the harshness of the scheme, someone does not receive the compensation when he has recovered the money from the surcharges? What do we do if, during the coming period, the conclusion is that, when the files are being processed on the basis of what the Public Prosecutor's Office or the Personal Data Authority is doing or on the basis of the internal investigation of the Tax Administration: wait a minute, there is perhaps a reason to do some extras? Do the regulations of the Secretary of State, who will be ahead of us in the coming weeks, provide sufficient space to provide tailor-made services there? Mr. Chairman. Then ethnically profile. Last week, the Ombudsman said that this occurs in all levels of government. That is, of course, a very shocking conclusion, but probably also a painfully harsh conclusion. What is the government going to do, wider than the Tax Office, to make sure, for example, that a second nationality -- I have one -- I don't have one -- that you're on the wrong list, that you're being treated unfairly and discriminated against? How are we gonna shape that? When is the investigation of the Dutch Data Protection Authority coming? We've been waiting a year. I'm very reluctant to say anything when an independent body does research, but this is really crazy. This is just taking way too long. When is this investigation gonna happen? Mr. Chairman. How is it possible, as Mr Azarkan said, that recent blacklists have emerged with people of dual nationality? We have been having discussions on this subject for a year. Then how come two weeks ago it turns out things were still on? How come a signal like that doesn't come up in the IRS? I see Mr Azarkan, President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u66	I see him too, but I thought you'd finish your sentence first. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u67	In the past, Mr D66 has quite rightly been concerned about this second nationality. I assume he has also read Mr Biemond's analysis, which looked at a number of issues. It was, by the way, much wider than mere hogwashing and professional discrimination. There was compulsion in it, too. There was abuse in et cetera. But of these two, it was proven. How does Mr Van Weyenberg qualify that all the other studies have not shown that at all? This investigation is fairly recent. It was completed a week and a half ago. On the basis of a very limited dossier, this very far-reaching conclusion is already reached, namely 'a presumption of'. How does Mr Van Weyenberg view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u68	The only good conclusion that was drawn by the Secretary of State is that she filed that report. Of course it's very painful. There is professional discrimination. That is the government of you and me, I say, through you, Mr. Chairman, to Mr. Azarkan. So I really think this is a black page for trusting the government. So I'm assuming the D.A.'s office will get to the bottom of this. I'm going to be a little reluctant on this one. This is a generic declaration, but the question that arises from this is of course whether it can be traced back to individual employees of the Tax Administration. You have never heard me talk about individual employees in all the debates, because I do not think that is up to myself or the House of Representatives. That's in charge of that ministry and right now at the state's attorney's office. I particularly hope that the research will not take very long, however difficult it may be. Because people have a right to clarity. This is so heavy and serious that it needs to be made clear as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u69	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u70	Then I'd like to talk about the following. The fact that a report has been made has a major impact on the employees of the Tax Administration who, in all conscience, are doing their job. We've talked about that a lot. I would like to ask the Secretary of State, in a generic sense, how she is dealing with it now, in the knowledge that it is about, about... Most of the employees who work there do their job in good conscience. How is the Secretary of State going with those who shape cultural change? It is good that politics also looks at itself. Laws are being amended. There will be a hardness clause for the surcharges. The "all or nothing" character of the law has been adapted. But there is also much unclear and that is why I really think we need to know better how it is possible that five years ago the Tax Administration set off a bell that this law is unfair to people and that people have been suffering for five years now, which could have been prevented if there had been action at that time. I find that too foggy so far, and I think the whole Chamber wants to have the upside down. Truth is, we're all doing this. The Empire Audit Service said we didn't investigate this trail. I understood that because of their investigation. That was about Treasury and the IRS. But as far as I'm concerned, it has to be investigated. Before 1 September, we simply need a report from independent researchers, which sheds light on this part of the story on the basis of both the documents and interviews with stakeholders. Otherwise, this remains a grey area, where we all have to think, along the lines of: what could have happened? This just needs to come up with complete clarity. Mr. Chairman. Then my last sentence. I see you've stalled my time. I always like that, but I'll finish. The surcharge affair also shows me that... ah, you shouldn't say that; the clock starts running immediately! A motion by Mr Bruins and myself has been adopted throughout the Chamber which states that we must try to get rid of the surcharges. I really hope that in the coming period we can go to a system that will provide income support for people with less incomes, but that will put an end to a surcharge system that will put so many people in trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u71	I have always looked at myself quite critically, actually from August 2017, when it was specifically about the CAF 11 case; that group of around 300 people. It's about a group of people who haven't actually done anything wrong. We've had a discussion about that before. They got a red card, but they hadn't done anything at all. To this day, almost three years later, it hasn't been resolved properly for those people. I blame myself in a way. I had a discussion on this with Mr Snel: can't it be done in another way? How does Mr Van Weyenberg look at the fact that there is no solution for this group of parents, who have been wrongly dismissed as a fraudster, to this day?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u72	Maybe a few things. Mr Azarkan's first question was: how do you look at your own actions? I think that's a fair question. That's the mirror we all have to tell ourselves. I also note to myself that I have thought for too long that if the Council of State says that the Tax Administration is right, this will be true. I blame myself for that. Maybe that's the answer to the first part of the question, because that was below it. Then about the CAF business. CAF 11 has been paid out. I think there are still a few individual cases, but most of them have now been dealt with in the compensation scheme. The potentially similar cases that the Donner Committee is doing are now running. It takes a frustratingly long time, but it's customization and I understand that it takes time. That's why my call: how fast can it be? Let's get people clear on the timeline. But I fully agree with you: every day is better, because people have waited so long. I assume that the Secretary of State, who has set up a large organization for this purpose, is moving at maximum speed. It is careful, because it has to be done in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u73	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u74	Mr. Chairman. This Secretary of State arrived when the seriousness of the child care allowance affair had become clear to everyone, including the cabinet. It has one of the biggest problems of this cabinet on its plate and has begun to do so. She has three tasks, as far as we're concerned. One: correcting the case towards the parents, correcting it properly and doing it right. Two: figure out how things could go so wrong and what can be learned from it. And three: prepare an alternative to the surcharges. My colleague Van Weyenberg referred to this. That will not be introduced again in this cabinet period. Mr. Chairman. The two investigations have given answers, but also raised many questions. Because who came up with the CAF approach? Who knew that the fees had to be stopped, that parents were on an exclusion list and that the parents weren't supposed to know? They couldn't charge any more fees via the portal and they weren't told what was going on. And where did I find a piece of the answer? In the new factual account, which is totally different from the facts that we received as Chamber. Why are there other facts for the ADR than for the Chamber? If you read it correctly, Mr President, I challenge you: this is the new version of black coats, white coats, and then in 3.5 points, it says that in May and June 2012 there was a plan to stop supplements without research; not to tell parents which pieces to deliver; to make closing lists, so that parents could not have a chance to make a new application. The pieces clearly state that parents wouldn't have a chance. Mr. Chairman. The parents didn't know it, but from the moment they received the letter, all their remedies had been removed in a plan approved by the Tax Administration's management, and that's the shocking thing about this rule of law. More and more pieces are emerging, but there is no complete transparency yet. The ADR gives a whole list of missing items: decisions by management teams, consultations between Social Affairs and Finance, fraud and even ministerial staff. I want them in the Acts, because I want to see them. This can't be done under the rule of law. Mr. Chairman. The mandate was given by a ministerial commission on the fight against fraud. Of course we cannot see the Minutes, because one minister must be free to talk to the other minister. But how can we, as a chamber, control what decisions the ministerial committee has taken? So I'll put that question back. Instead of asking for another 20 documents, I ask one simple question. How am I supposed to check if these officials did this on behalf of the ministerial committee or if they came up with it themselves? That is a crucial question here, and it has only become more crucial now that these officials have been reported. They will also ask this question. Mr. Chairman. The next big problem in the CAF case is administration. Some of the files aren't there. Some parents get a file, but most parents have been waiting for nine months, as Mr Leijten said. And they just wrote a letter based on GDPR, article 15. If you don't get it in three months, the government has to make a decision. Legal right, because then you can object and you can also get a periodic penalty payment of up to €1,000. Those parents mentioned the GDPR in their letter and in response to Parliamentary questions last night, the government says: "No, the GDPR does not apply." How? Again: their objections were not read and also here... Can you tell me why you disable the GDPR for these people? Do they just get compensation for not getting the file? Mr. Chairman. In December, the CAF 11-parents got their money back, but what happened to the more complex cases? When was this committee set up for the difficult cases and the additional damage? And it's working now? And when will the parents of the other 149 supplement CAF cases hear what they get, and the other large group of parents who are covered by the hardness clause we talked about? In the legal process, which is coming soon, we will see that this is actually resolved for those parents. Mr. Chairman. All this took so long because the Tax Administration did a number of things. The Tax Administration left out information and told falsehoods to High Colleges of State at the Ombudsman's office at the Personal Data Authority and sometimes even in court cases. I ask the government to rectify the falsehoods that have been told by letters. But it goes deeper. In a rule of law, citizens have rights which are enshrined in a law and which are not diminished by decisions taken by the Management of Fees which may or may not appear eight years later. In a democracy, the Lower House can control the decisions of the government. She can see if it's the right one and she can adjust it if she wants. Both have been seriously violated. It is time to put that right, not just for the parents, but also for the tax authorities. Everyone who works in the Tax Office has just said that the vast majority are doing their best to put this right and to act ethically. That is why I would like to know: may I have the commitment to the employees, who have been made on paper, that they would not be punished... The whistleblower's been fired. The people involved said, before we talk, we want immunity. We understand that a report has been made, but we note that the report has been made on the basis of part of the documents, the documents made public. There are only three issues of ethnic profiling. The ADR report says 100. There are other things like that. In 2017, everyone knew what was going on. Why has he failed to act? Are you going to make additional declarations? You are obliged to do so. Mr. Chairman. I assume the tax authorities and the government will fully cooperate in the prosecution's investigation. I have a few final, point-by-point questions. What about the investigation of the Heritage Inspectorate, of the Personal Data Authority, and the investigation into the legal protection of citizens? Why was the black list not included, for example, income tax and all the blue? Mr. Chairman. Letters were sent, tens of thousands of letters. The Dutch NVVK, which helps people with debts, told us one thing this morning: letters from the Tax Administration, that is what these people least trust. Call them, ask them a question, help these people with something more out of the misery, make sure that the municipalities can help and that you share the data with the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u75	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. Last question, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u76	Mr President, I understand that you want to limit it, but this is a compensation scheme for 20,000 people. That compensation scheme did not come about because the Ministry looked at it and had the insight to choose it, but because Mr Omtzigt and I were very hard on those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u77	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u78	I have a question for Mr Omtzigt. I said: this compensation scheme is no good, because no consideration has been given to the operation of set-up/greater debt. I have the internal directive here. It says, bold and emphasized, the following. "Never blame yourself for anything. For this you have to have proper argument, because for the phases after the pg304 it must be, sometimes up to the court, well defendable." Well, in all these files, parents have not received any answers to the question as to why their intent/great guilt has been blamed. The Secretary of State says in answers to questions from me that it has been a great deal for a small mistake. Donner didn't investigate this. Is Mr Omtzigt able to do this? Or does Mr Omtzig agree with me that we really have to turn it around: if the Tax Office can't prove that you're a fraud, then the service confesses and people are going to get compensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u79	It is right that Mrs Leijten should ask that question. Because the government itself should have reported to the people that they were illegally included on those blacklists. Those lists are now in a safe. On those blacklists, it says whether someone is guilty or not, and whether there is evidence or not. So my question to the government is: over the next four or five weeks, would you like to tell everyone from those CAF cases that have recovery, whether they were deliberately or grossly guilty? I hear Mrs Leijten now saying that it is also about people outside the CAF business, and rightly so. These people have the right to know if their intent / gross guilt has been used against them, and to know what was underneath. Because then that can be taken into account in the case and in those committees. Mrs Leijten is right to ask a question, because this opinion is interesting, but there is no deliberate or gross fault. This opinion states that there was institutional distrust, but nothing personal. This is therefore contrary to Mr Biemond's opinion. He says report it. Well, more personal than pressing charges, it doesn't. And Follow the Money has also invented that more than a few people knew something about what was going on. I would therefore like to know whether, according to the government, the pillars of this opinion are still standing. Mrs Leijten also asked a question about the content. We are going to have a debate on this when we come to deal with a draft bill on compensation. The bill was filed the day before yesterday and I haven't read it yet. I just want to deal with that bill thoroughly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u80	At least we are talking about two large groups in this debate. A group has been wrongly and knowingly harmed by the Tax Administration. And a group is disadvantaged because the law was far too harsh. Mr Omtzig has just asked me a number of questions about this second group. This was also about the amendments and how we had voted. One of the most crucial points is: if you made a small mistake or did something small wrong in a task, you had to repay the entire amount. Was there an amendment to the amendments tabled by Mr Omtzigt to prevent this? I didn't find such an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u81	No, it wasn't. If Mr Nijboer asks me what the lesson for the Chamber is, I say: the lesson for the Chamber is that we are going to spend a little more time here on legislation and less on urgent debates. I'll just say it quite honestly: this is a Lower House that spends two thirds of its time with what was on the front page of the Volkskrant for the MPs who are on the left, and with what was on the front page of De Telegraaf for the MPs who are on the right. Legislation has far-reaching consequences for people. If I ask myself something, it is how we can ensure that we take legislation more seriously in the Chamber. This also applies to the treatment of complex legislation in which I was present. I have made a number of proposals. Even if all these proposals had been adopted, all the problems would not have been solved; I cannot say otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u82	Then that's cleared up. It seemed as if the coalition at the time had deliberately allowed this problem to exist, despite good opposition proposals. But in the end, of course, that law was adopted unanimously, including that of the CDA and that of all the other parties. If there really is a bad law in front of you and you know that in advance, you vote against it as a Member of Parliament. Mr Omtzig knows that just like I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u83	There were also some good things in it to fight fraud. That is why we voted in favour. But we did make a number of proposals at the time, such as reducing 26 weeks to 9 weeks. If someone files it tomorrow, I'll vote for it again the day after tomorrow. You can't keep people waiting 26 weeks for a government decision. What if you're a single parent on welfare? You find a new job and you apply for child care allowance, because you only get child care allowance if you have a job. That could take 26 weeks right now. Then the Tax Administration has the right to wait 26 weeks and as a citizen you have no legal remedy to say: then not. Well, I can assure you that that employer did find you someone else at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u84	First Mr Azarkan and then Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u85	I would like to ask a question about the compensation scheme. Now the Donner Commission has proposed that part of this is already paid out to compensate 25% as material damage in CAF 11 cases or similar cases. This concerns people who have done nothing demonstrably wrong and made life impossible for years. Is that proportionate and fair, according to Mr Omtzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u86	I'd like to have that discussion with the bill. This also raises a fairly precise distinction between citizens. The citizens we are seeing now are the most affected citizens. It is right that we should see it now. Therefore, both for the first group of companies, Mr Nijboer made that distinction "as well as for the second group, there is a hardness clause to compensate for additional damage. For citizens who could repay it in one go, this is a reasonable alternative with that storage, as long as they had no consequential damage to it. That will be a discussion during the legal treatment of this compensation, as Mr Van Weyenberg has already asked for it. Mr President, this is a business case. I would like to add this document to the documents. This is a business case!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u87	Yes. There's another piece over there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u88	If the parents read that they were a business case to get certain targets... This piece, Chairman, hasn't even gone to all the researchers. Can anyone explain to me why the ADR doesn't get the business case on which everything is based, and Donner doesn't? This didn't come up until we asked for it. Why is that? Isn't it essential that that business case is here? Yes, I'm ashamed of those parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u89	Last question, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u90	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I also know business cases where agents and enforcers had to write a certain maximum amount of fines.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u91	Minimum number.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u92	Preferably minimum, yes. So that's not that crazy; that's common within the government. But it's frightening. I have a question for you anyway. I hear Mr Omtzigt say: we still have to do the legal treatment with each other and then I will find something of that. I don't know if the parents have that patience after all these years. Mr Omtzigt says: I also want to see progress made. But every time, something comes up that makes us keep these parents waiting. In the context of corona, we can raise 100 billion in three months. We can save KLM for 2 to 4 billion. We do, but these parents have been waiting so long. In fact, I find it a little embarrassing to say that we are only judging the height of the legal treatment. Mr Omtzigt does have an idea about that, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u93	I have those ideas, too. That is why we have established the input for that law on Friday. You'll see those questions from me, too. I just mentioned the hardness clause. Besides, there's nothing wrong with a business case. The only way you're gonna go wrong is if you throw all your legal protection overboard at that business case. That's what happened here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u94	It was just in the interrupting debate with Mr Nijboer about Mr Omtzigt's amendments. It was about the fact that there is no amendment that is about 'anything or nothing'. Moreover, we did not support all these amendments as a D66 group, I say openly. But it is true that both Mr Omtzigt and myself and this Chamber as a whole did not yet know the message from the Tax Administration that it was unfair, as the Tax Administration said five years ago? That was not what Mr Omtzigt had at the time, and we did not have that; we have only been clear about this in recent months. So I would just like to say that I really did not think Mr Omtzigt was right. On the contrary, I am very sorry that the Chamber did not know for five years that the Tax Office had been called.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u95	We didn't know they'd been ringing the bell in-house. However, several progress reports, especially from Secretary of State Weekers, have provided us with fairly clear overviews of the level of recovery and the number of people involved. This was reported to the Chamber by the Tax Administration at the time, and there were, in particular, alarmingly many cases of alarmingly high recovery rates in the childcare allowance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u96	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. I now give the floor to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last November, the public gallery was full of parents who were affected by the harsh surcharge policy. That's different at this time, but they're all watching. This debate is about a government that has driven them unforgivingly, without compassion, without a sense of humanity. That's a policy to be ashamed of. Mr. Chairman. The main point today is the recovery and compensation for the parents. The conclusion of the Donner Committee was that the hard work at CAF 11 was not unique but not normal either. The opinion is that in CAF 11 and CAF 11 cases, in addition to recovery, there is also a right to compensation. How big is this group exactly? For all those other people who reported themselves and where there was or was not intent or gross guilt, things that may go back in time from people who do not belong to a CAF-like group but belong to a CAF-type group, there is no right to compensation but can be considered individually for recovery through the hardness clause. But why can't this also be biased? Perhaps the blacklist has played a role. What role did ethnic profiling play? Actually, we don't know that. Wasn't tough laws and regulations in themselves biased? What possibilities to compensate parents other than the CAF 11 and CAF 11 like people will the Secretary of State see if we are going to deal with the legislation in the near future? How can there be a restoration of confidence when parents with huge debts receive a letter that they are not entitled to compensation, just after they have regained a little hope? I also welcome the fact that, unlike the Donner Committee, the Secretary of State is lowering the limit of €10,000 to €1,500. That's gonna get more people in the picture. But what does that mean for the execution? Will the parents with the highest debts be the first to be dealt with? How fast does that go? What about the files? Especially with parents who can rely on hardness, it can go back far in time: a year or ten or even longer. How soon will these parents get their files? How soon will they be in order? If there are no more documents, where is the burden of proof? How do we deal with that? The CAF 11 people have received their recovery and their flat-rate compensation, but as far as I know, there are dozens where the damage was much higher. They ended up in a mill. How's the Secretary of State gonna solve that in a human way? Mr. Chairman. We now have Donner's and ADR's reports, but SZW is still investigating political responsibility. We have the investigation into the blacklists. We are still waiting for the Dutch Data Protection Authority, and frankly, I am starting to get annoyed. For a year, we don't know how bad the ethnic profile was. When's that gonna happen? The authority has been conducting this investigation for a year; that is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u98	For the record, two and a half years ago, we were asked to start that investigation. Two and a half years! And we can't draw conclusions while they're still investigating. I am not allowed to mention names, but I am therefore calling on the chairman of the AP to come to the Chamber this week with a letter explaining why it takes two and a half years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u99	It is, of course, complex for such an important organ to call that on the mat, but I do not think this is possible. I think we should have that investigation in the Chamber as soon as possible, precisely because it has such serious consequences for parents. Mr. Chairman. Now it is also up to the prosecution to investigate, but why didn't the rulers themselves ask, for example, the National Criminal Court to investigate? Has that ever been suggested? Why didn't the department act on its own, but did it need a second opinion which now requires the public prosecutor's office to be involved? And what is the Secretary of State going to do to prevent a culture of fear among all those well-intentioned officials? Mr. Chairman. Now I also come to the political responsibility, no matter how rightly we have put the searchlight on the actions of the Tax Administration itself. Today there's the news of Follow the Money again. Social Affairs and Minister Asscher knew how hard the recovery policy was. The Council of State and Donner knew it, because there had not only been discussions about the adjustment of proportionality, but also the memo that was or has not been read in the "Christmas bag" but that there was also legislative preparation for the financing system. The aim was to reduce the high levels of recovery, so as to reduce the tough policy that put people in trouble. The numbers were known: 20,000 people were pushed into debt restructuring. They were vulnerable people. It's all in your documents and it hasn't been dealt with. If legislation and policy had been adapted in 2015, we could have avoided so much misery for so many people. Why isn't that done? Why has politics also stuck in the tunnel of crackdown on possible fraud? And why did the Council of State stay in that same tunnel for so long and not run until October 2019? And why did the then Finance Minister introduce a business case that meant that there was a mission to supposedly collect fraud money and thereby cut SZW's budgets? How high was the pressure in social affairs practice on the tax authorities to raise that money from vulnerable people? What did this whole process, for years, know, the official summits of SZW and Finance? What did the rulers know? How did the discussions in the Ministerial Committee on the fight against fraud go? What was their direction of the civil service like? These are all questions about political responsibility that the whole range of investigations that we have now do not answer. I'm closing up, Mr. Chairman. Last November, I tabled a motion for a parliamentary questioning. These questions can only be answered if we hear the top officials and rulers involved. I held that motion at the time, but I think the moment will come when the Chamber will investigate itself. That can be short, that can be fast, that can be with a limited group of responsible, but it has to be done. In doing so, we must avoid collusion with the D.A.'s investigation. Restoration of trust can only be achieved if the political players themselves are accountable. We owe it to the parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u100	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u101	Mr. Chairman. There are only losers in the case of ending child care payments. First of all, of course, the parents who were thrown away in advance as a fraud and were dragged away by an inconspicuous government. There's coming now, one step at a time, justice. But it takes a long time and the years of tension and misery can no longer be reversed. These affected families should remain our main focus in all debates on this issue. But I also have to think of the large group of honest, hardworking people at the Tax Office, who see all this happen. These are people who did their job to their consciences, or maybe even tried internal affairs with their superiors. That does not, of course, alter the fact that major mistakes have been made, especially at the top. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the declarations we were able to read last week. A goodbye to officials or former civil servants at the top has taken an important step. Although we, as politicians, should not interfere with the content of this legal process, I do have a question about the step taken to make the declaration. In what way is the workplace involved in the procedure followed? An appointment or resignation of a director shall be subject to consultation under the law. Has the or been asked for an opinion? Has the drivers been asked to leave or is there any resignation? I would like to see a reflection of the Secretary of State on the formulation of the decisions and the role of the participation bodies in them. Then there are the relevant declarations themselves. I understand from the reports that the whole mt from then on has been sidetracked. This requires political courage, especially in view of the information that came out yesterday. But how does the Secretary of State prevent her from reverting to group thinking in her actions, something that would be extremely painful in this context? Mr. Chairman. We have often talked about the role of algorithms in the risk models and the tax administration's selection rules in this child care allowance affair. Are these rules and algorithms, which have so much gone wrong, also being applied more widely within ministries or executive organisations, for example when it comes to healthcare payments or tax returns? Are the same ticks set here, as it were? How does this relate to the Ombudsman's observations of 14 May? The time when the tax inspector had a connection with the taxpayer is over. Therefore, the government has started to profile risk in a certain way. However, self-learning algorithms have an automatic tendency to become a selffulfilling prophecy. So how does the democratic rule of law stand? How do you prevent a drama like that from happening to the parents of the childcare allowance? What legal basis is there to use or not use a given indicator? What steps will the Secretary of State take in the near future to create legal clarity so that people at home are safe and know where they stand? Mr. Chairman. I have three concluding remarks. Firstly, a general appeal. The Christian Union has more often advocated the abolition of this unworkable surcharge system. We even have an adopted motion calling for this and the Prime Minister has confirmed that we must get rid of it. In this debate, too, I call on the Secretary of State and her fellow Secretary of State to speed up this reform process. We need a simple, understandable and fairer tax system as soon as possible. Secondly, I have said it more often, and we in the House of Representatives must always keep a mirror in this matter. The fickleness of politics has ensured that impossible demands have been imposed on the Tax Administration ever since 2006, against better knowledge. This matter also has a political component, which has not been raised so far. Mr President, my third and final remark. My input started with people's attention, and that's what I want to end with. After all, this case has so many losers and in the end it is about these people. We have therefore often advocated a generous compensation scheme for disabled parents. Recently, the Secretary of State indicated that it would introduce a so-called "delegation base" so that the compensation could really come quickly. Does the Secretary of State take sufficient account of the Council of State's opinions on legal certainty, clarity on scope and criteria? Is it possible to be both careful and to make haste? Because I understand the need to carefully shape all this, but the impatience of the affected parents is justified. They've waited long enough for justice. That's why I'm pressing the Secretary of State to speed things up. That's what all the duped families deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u102	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today is another round in our efforts to provide a solution as a Chamber for the injured and to try to achieve structural improvements in the Tax Administration. But first of all, along with some other colleagues, I would like to stress that this is not just about CAF 11, and not just about the childcare allowance, although there have been the greatest problems. We are dealing here with a faulty system with high risks, which requires a great deal of bureaucracy for citizens, combined with a tough tax administration, which considered itself above the law in these cases, and a failing policy of Rutte II Cabinet, where Weekers, Wiebes and Asscher were unable to adequately and accurately solve the problems by coming up with a different system and with different rules. But before I get to those other questions about culture and policy with the Tax Administration, the police report for hogwashing and solutions for surcharges, I need to talk about the victims. In June 2019 at that time, I also came into the former State Secretary, who acknowledged that he had seen the light at the end of the tunnel, because he had understood that he had had a tunnel vision in his defence of the officials. That's when I pleaded... But I just came from outside and I hadn't made all this misery, which has been going on for many years, into my spiritual property, so I thought: I'm doing a quick solution; let's make sure people are helped and then look at a system. At that time, I suggested simply acting as if the government had done harm to people, and those people through a compensation scheme.. the government is quick to help its own risk carrier..................................................................................................................................................................................... That was not possible, because a legitimate solution had to be maintained. For, while the entire preliminary journey was unlawful, the solution had to be legitimate. Unfortunately, the expectations of a quick solution at the time did not come true, not even with the Donner Committee. We've been a year and we still don't have a settlement for the affected parents. We are still getting signals that there is a discussion or more to be paid than the wrongly recovered childcare allowance, while it is clear that a number of people have suffered a lot of damage. This has not been done to the same extent, but it has been done to the same extent. The nasty thing is that that damage is always greater the less income you have. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, therefore, there is also a need to act generously in all cases similar to CAF 11, because it is about much more than just those that occasionally appear in reports. One time it's 3 and the other time it's 200. Mr. Chairman. In addition to helping these people, we really have to face the fact that we have made an incomprehensible system of childcare allowances. The size of the amounts and the laying down of responsibility on parents make it an unworkable system. In particular, they had highly educated parents in mind and not people with small jobs. Together with colleagues who have already spoken about this, I can only conclude that Secretary of State Wiebes and Minister Asscher have really missed the signals and that they have been unable to design another system that is not so dependent on parents, but in which society bears a collective responsibility for the design of childcare. In previous Question Time, we were talking about the fact that there is also a cultural problem in the Tax Office. This has also been recognised by the previous Secretary of State and a report on it will be published soon. I don't know if this is already in all those pieces, but I haven't seen it yet. You have to excuse me, because we didn't leave here until late last night. So I don't know what else came in last night. But it's clear something was wrong with the IRS. It seems to me that two things are now mixed up, at least in the imagery. It seems as if the tax return and the decommissioning of five executives would be the same. I would ask the Secretary of State to clarify this. According to the stories, the report is not about persons, but the result is that five people have been put out of action. This also raises the question of what research has led to this and whether further research is being carried out on others who have just as much or perhaps greater responsibility for the fact that it has been able to derail. You're gonna have discussions soon. I also read something about a comparison made with Hammers. It is now banned to Switzerland. That is where conclusions have been drawn, but perhaps not in the way that everyone had in mind. It is therefore necessary to clarify the situation, including in order to give a sense of security to all the other 30,000 officials who were not involved. However, that security can never be guaranteed. I must say that I am shocked by the message that Uijlenbroek had promised that people could not be prosecuted if they gave opening of business. That is unacceptable. I understand that this was also the view of the rulers. To pay tribute to that. We cannot accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u104	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Edgar Mulder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u105	All the debates that we have had here in recent years, which should be about the surcharges and the affair, are mainly about the mess within the Tax Office. It's no different today. It's actually impossible not to talk about it. The misery is far too great for that. The PVV wants to start with what is really the most important thing. Those are the victims, all those families that have been living in hell for years. These people's problems must be given priority. They must be compensated. The PVV is not yet convinced that this process is going well. In the report of 28 April, the Secretary of State mentions the many personal conversations she is having and the good feeling she has. A web meeting of 1,250 participants is also mentioned. The participants appreciated this webinar on average with a 7.5. The Secretary of State states that all parents from the CAF 11 file have now received compensation. That sounds nice, but this hallelujah story is in stark contrast to other stories, with stories from parents who say that they are still not helped, or even rejected. They're angry. There are also reports of objections, especially with the parents involved in the CAF 11 affair. There's a lot of objections. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I'd like to ask the Secretary of State what's going on with these records. Are there a lot of them, and you're surprised? I'd like a response. My second question is about the conversations with the host parents. Is the Secretary of State satisfied with this? How many of those desks has there been a match? Mr. Chairman. The PVV wants to see swift and generous action taken. Apart from all the other things that are going on, it is important that this scandal disappears quickly and that the families concerned receive ample compensation, because they deserve it. It has been quite clear to everyone for a long time that many families are completely innocent. They're demonstrably innocent. It's clear that the service knew that, too. However, these families were deliberately destroyed by the Tax Administration, a powerful service with a lot of money and a lot of expensive lawyers. Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, in which most of us grew up in this room, this affair was irresistible, completely unthinkable and totally impossible. But it did happen. Fortunately, the Netherlands is not yet Africa. Justice will eventually prevail. Since last week a start has been made with the beginning of cleaning up the mess at the Tax Office. Reporting against the IRS is only logical. The next step is to find out who was responsible within the service for the years of official terror. Those people need to be punished. Mr. Chairman. Then we must also look at those who are politically responsible. The mistakes, the crimes of office and the abuse of power have not been dealt with for years. Undersecretaries of VVD and D66 have let it all happen. So the question is what Mr Snel knew about D66. He may have resigned, but what did he know? Why did then Secretary of State Wiebes and Minister Asscher ignore the distress calls of civil servants, and since 2014? What was their motivation to pursue the disproportionate policy anyway? Where is Mr. Asscher today, by the way? Why doesn't he speak on behalf of the PvdA? He seems to me to be the spokesperson par excellence. Mr. Chairman. The question is: what did they know and if they knew something, why didn't they intervene? By not intervening, you're making yourself responsible. Responsible for knowingly withholding files. Responsible for refusing to tackle the official summit. Responsible for allowing the official terror of coercive actions, wage settlements and home expulsions to continue. We may never hear it from them, because their memory leaves them in the lurch. In fact, memory loss seems to be common among political ministers of this coalition. Maybe we should re-examine that. Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. Punishment of the guilty is the beginning of the restoration of trust. Without cleaning, a new beginning is not possible. After all, it is an illusion to think that you can solve problems with the same people who initially caused the problems. And finally, through your chairman, I say to the Secretary of State: make sure that all the injured parents are quickly compensated financially. We can never make it nice for the parents involved, I realize, but maybe a little easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u106	Thank you. Mr Van Raan has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u107	Thank you, Mr President. I have three points, and two are about the victims. The generosity of the Secretary of State versus Donner's hardness is point one. The aid measures that we could take, point two. The follow-up steps, point three. The impression is that the opinion of the Donner Committee and the report of the Audit Service, the ADR, are mostly in the way of this Secretary of State's generous plans. Firstly, the Donner Committee has not heard all categories of parents. What are the possible implications of this, I ask the Secretary of State. Secondly, it cannot be excluded that officials may have withheld information from the Donner Commission and also from the ADR. Is the Secretary of State still convinced of the validity of those reports? Thirdly, the Secretary of State wants to be generous enough for parents who have been injured, but the Donner Committee recommends that parents themselves have to prove that they have been unjustly cut down. But these are victims of disproportionate hardness, so it's not generous at all. Does the Secretary of State agree and is she prepared to lay down the burden of proof in the Supplements Service? Does she therefore agree that the Donner report in particular hinders her generosity? And if not, how then do they show such generosity? Mr. Chairman. The second point. Billions are earmarked for corona aid to companies, and rightly so. It is also accepted that there may be cases which may pose a risk of fraud. And that is also right; it had to and must be done very quickly, and it could also be done quickly. But it takes a long time for the parents, because they need customization. That's not right. Does the Secretary of State see this parallel and is she prepared to act on it? Why do we need to react less quickly to the cases of these parents, who may have been in debt for years, which are still increasing? And why not agree on a generous sum for all those who have been hurt in the way that we have been able to help tens of thousands of entrepreneurs? Does the Minister feel that way? I'm considering a motion on this point. And if some of the victims are of the opinion that they are not sufficiently compensated, then the Secretary of State can always switch to customization. The third point is the follow-up steps. This State Secretary has filed a complaint against his own tax authorities. That's a firm move. Does the Secretary of State recognise that the legal status of civil servants must be preserved, and that the same mistake must not be made here as the one made the service first, in which someone is guilty until the guilty person proves that he or she is not? We shouldn't have that. And is the Secretary of State planning any more in this area? Does the Secretary of State know, for example, that under the Act, ministerial responsibility and ministerial offences can also be decided to prosecute retired directors? Can the Secretary of State exclude that the former SZW ministers and the former Secretary of State for Finance in the previous cabinet were already aware of the abuses surrounding the child care allowance, in such a way that they are blamed for something? Mr. Chairman. Finally. We have heard in the press that there may be a parliamentary inquiry or even a parliamentary inquiry. Should this continue, I would like to see the role of the House of Representatives also examined, the expressions that have been made here, which have contributed to the atmosphere in which this tragedy could arise. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u108	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u109	Mr. Chairman. Do you know that feeling? That you are in a roller coaster in which you have to take a loop time and again, that you cling to the seat of the carriage you have no control of, that you think the ride is over and that you have finally found peace, but that you will be launched again. This is how parents must feel who have ended up in this supplement soap. Years of misery, and over and over again, these people are confronted with new developments in this case. Mr. Chairman. Parents have been put in serious and sometimes persistent financial difficulties by the Tax Administration and the rigid operation of the childcare allowance: a hard conclusion to draw from the various reports. These parents now deserve an effective government that's going to solve the problem. As far as I am concerned, we are taking an important step forward today. I go into a number of points. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has accepted the recommendations of the Donner Commission on compensation and the recovery scheme. That can be supported by my group. However, I do have a number of questions. In the recovery operation, the Committee recommended reviewing the decisions of €10,000 or more. The cabinet has lowered this limit to €1,500, making more people eligible. Can the Secretary of State state state what this means for the duration of the recovery operation? In what way will the Secretary of State ensure that families who are in the most distressing situations are helped first? I understand the Secretary of State spends a lot of time talking to the people. My group appreciates that, because these people have not been taken seriously for years. To regain confidence, communication is important. Can the Secretary of State indicate how the crisis organisation is working? A committee of wise men has been set up, an advisory board of experts. All this is important in order to be able to make the right balance, but for people this can mean that they no longer see the forest through the trees. What does communication look like at person level? Mr. Chairman. I understand that the case for a part of the parents of the CAF 11 case is therefore the first group, which we have talked about many times before. I think Mr Snels referred to that too. Parents get bogged down in the swamp of unclear communication. Will the Secretary of State undertake to engage with this group as well? Mr. Chairman. I cannot help saying a few words about the ethnic profile during this debate. The use of a second nationality without a legal basis should not be allowed, and if it does, it is inadmissible. It is still unclear whether there is then also selected by origin or race. Then it's completely reprehensible. There have been many notes cracked about it. If it turns out there's a black list circulating recently, you're gonna get angrier. Isn't anyone gonna ring the bell for this? Even worse, when this offence is detected, it is not even reported to the Personal Data Authority. Mr. Chairman. In view of the declaration against the service for a presumption of professional discrimination, I shall leave it at this point for now. My group awaits the investigation. However, like a number of colleagues, I note that the Dutch Data Protection Authority has been conducting its investigation for almost two years now. I am not satisfied with that either. The outcome of the investigation of the Personal Data Authority should be helpful in relation to the overall approach to fraud. My question is whether the Secretary of State is going to wait for the investigation or whether, in the absence of the report, he himself is going to take a number of steps. I like to hear a reflection. The Secretary of State has reported her own department in the last week and has asked the Public Prosecutor to investigate the action of the service. This is intense, of course for the parents, who take another loop with this news. But also very heavy for the service. Around 30,000 employees who do their work according to conscience, act in the service and under the responsibility of the government. The report's been smashed in like a bomb. Mr. President, I want you to understand what I'm saying. The outcome of the second opinion left no other choice for the Secretary of State. But we ask the Secretary of State how she deals with the unrest in the organisation and how she is going to ensure that people can continue to do their job. How is it going to give confidence to employees that those same employees are not afraid of the consequences of any decision they take or have to take on their own initiative? In that light, I also ask the Secretary of State to reflect on yesterday's coverage. I also wanted to dwell on the cultural aspect, but unfortunately for the sake of time I have to delete it. But Donner has made a number of recommendations on the cultural aspect. Perhaps the Secretary of State would like to address the question of how she deals with it. In order to avoid situations such as this, we need to move towards a new tax system, where the surcharges can be reduced or even abolished. For the short term, I have previously made a proposal to look for simplifications in the current system. How's this going? That's a widely adopted motion. For the longer term, I see that the Secretary of State opts for an investigation into a publicly funded implementation. I ask the Secretary of State to investigate a non-publicly funded variant, by the way, following the arrival of the future vision of childcare that Secretary of State Van Ark is working on. The VVD has not yet decided what the future of surcharges will look like for us and whether a publicly funded institution will be part of it. Because the VVD also sees a number of other options, such as lower taxes. I would ask the Secretary of State to confirm that she is speaking with an open mind with the Chamber about the future of that supplement scheme and that the Chamber continues to be involved in this important decision-making process. I'm closing up. Unfortunately, this is not the first debate on this painful issue and the chance that the book may close after this debate is very limited in view of recent developments. But it's time for the parents now. That is our responsibility. We can't reverse the ride on the roller coaster, but it's up to us to get parents to rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u110	Thank you, Mrs Lodders. I can see you, Mrs Leijten, but we have agreed on the number of questions and you have actually asked more questions than has been agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u111	I have one specific question for Mrs Lodders. I'll make that brief. The supplemental affair is to look at with horror and bewilderment and we have to close it properly. But how does the VVD manage to use the reason for this failure to suggest that the Tax Administration should be privatised?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u112	That was a clarifying question. Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u113	I don't think I've talked about privatising the Tax Office, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u114	Then that's clear, too. Thank you. That's a misunderstanding, I understand. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen on behalf of the Krol/van Kooten-Arissen Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u115	Thank you, Mr President. People have been given life. The compensation scheme is based on Donner's tunnel advice. There hasn't been any contact with the parents, and no files have been reviewed. The so-called CAF 11-parents were affected by institutional bias and the other 20,000 parents were affected by the hardness of the law. That's when they went through the exact same thing. The distinction is inexplicable. Those other parents don't get compensation. The normal course of justice and legal protection would be open, but nothing is less true. These people are completely ruined. They don't have the money to sue for justice. In fact, the label "set-up/greater debt" ensures that they end up on blacklists and that they are not eligible for debt restructuring. Then it concerns people with an annual salary of, rounded up, €15,000 with tens of thousands or even hundreds of thousands of euros debt. These people have a life sentence. I agree with the SP's request to reverse the burden of proof and remove the distinction between affected parents. Mr. Chairman. Then there are those responsible. There is an external investigation announced by the Integrity Finance Research Office to the reports of the whistleblower Pierre Niessen. However, with other citizen reports, for example the reports of Eva González Pérez, the lawyer of many parents, nothing is done. I asked a question about this during Question Time, but I did not receive an answer. During this debate, will the Secretary of State undertake to examine all reports? Mr. Chairman. I asked the researchers of the Audit Service during the technical briefing whether the findings in the final version of the research report had been negotiated with the Ministry. The answer was no. On the follow-up question whether the ADR felt pressured in any way, the answer was again no. On the eve of this debate, however, it has been shown that last year's summit of the Tax Administration promised officials that no disciplinary action would be taken against them because of the surcharge affair. This was enforced as a condition for participating in the study of the ADR. Mr. Chairman. The bottom stone has to come up. A parliamentary inquiry seems to me to be the only option, because how do we get the assurance that the prosecution can do research openly and with the full cooperation of the Ministry? Finally, Mr President, the political leaders. They too are kept out of sight. The Rutte II cabinet knew everything. Mark Rutte supposedly doesn't remember anything about the Council of Ministers that must have reached the point of the inhumane approach. The same applies to the business case of fraud and the ministerial committee on the fight against fraud, which Rutte himself presided over. Unfortunately, a parliamentary survey is the only way to cure the memory loss of the political parties involved. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u116	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm looking at the Secretary of State. There's a need for suspension. 45 minutes? Is that okay? Yes. Then I'll suspend the meeting for 45 minutes. Mr. Ommzigt, you want to ask me something? Is this about the documents you asked for?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u117	Yeah, I really want them all to be there when the Secretary of State starts answering her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-27-tweedekamer-2.u118	The Secretary of State has more or less promised that. So I'm assuming that's what's going to happen.
