ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the debate on the coronavirus. I would like to welcome the members of the Chamber present, the directors, journalists and many of the staff who have participated in this debate. I would also like to welcome those people who cannot be present in the public gallery and those who are interested in following the debate in a different way, via the Internet, the live stream, or via Debate Direct. We are having this debate at an exceptional, difficult time. We haven't seen a situation like this before. We realize that all eyes are on The Hague, on the government and on the parliament. The corona virus keeps society intensely occupied. That is why this debate is very important. It is also important to stress that as a parliament we, as a parliament, come together as often as is necessary in this crisis. We do this in a different way than usual, as you can see. There are few people in the room, no people in the public gallery, only journalists. Fortunately, everyone can follow the debate over the internet and via Debate Direct, but also watch the debate back on Debate Miss. I shall now give the floor to the first speaker. That is Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV. Speaking time is six minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u2	Madam President, thank you very much. The Netherlands is in a deep, deep crisis. I must say it, because it is the truth: the cabinet has reacted far too late and far too laxly. There was also, certainly in the beginning, incredibly blundered, by Minister Bruins and by RIVM. The virus would not reach the Netherlands. The Netherlands would only be at a small risk. The Dutch should not be afraid of a major outbreak, and there would be only a few infections. All this has been said, in January and February of this year, by Minister Bruins and RIVM people. People were wrong, so a lot of time was lost. Mr. Chairman. That is still true, because Prime Minister Rutte consciously chooses to allow the virus to spread further in order to build up group immunity. This is a dangerous proposal, which has been completely destroyed in recent days by doctors and virologists from all over the world. What is the criticism of those experts? It is not yet known whether this virus and this virus can cause immunity at all. It will lead to a lot of extra sick and dead people. It's an experiment with people. It's a long shot. It's catastrophic. Without a vaccine, there is no group immunity at all. Experience experts, even from Italy, say don't. The World Health Organization says don't. Why don't you listen to these experts, I'll ask the Prime Minister. Because, Mr President, of course it is also an insanely bad idea. We're not experimenting with people, are we? At least 60% of Dutch people, 60%, should be infected before group immunity, if possible with this virus. How dare the Prime Minister choose to let millions of Dutch people have unnecessary corona? How can he accept that even if only 0.5% to 1% of those people get serious complaints and die from them, that means that in the Netherlands tens of thousands, perhaps even hundreds of thousands of people will die? How is it that the Netherlands has a prime minister who proposes this: letting people die unnecessarily? You may, I say to the Prime Minister, not play Russian roulette with people's health and lives. Stop it, Mr. Rutte. It's unethical, it's wrong, and our care, our hospitals, our intensive care can't handle it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr Wilders outlines a scenario that I do not think is the scenario for which the cabinet and also advisors have chosen. The measures taken have two objectives. One. Protecting the vulnerable: the elderly, people who already have something under their roof. Two. Trying to spread the number of infected cases, to ensure that care is not overloaded. Those are the two goals. The result of this approach may be group immunity. What Mr Wilders is doing now is making the approach the main objective, while the main objective is to protect the vulnerable and to prevent the peak in care. Can Mr Wilders once reflect that these are the goals and that what he sketches is far and wide the truth?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u4	Everything I say is in line with the truth, let me start with that. And of course, natúúrlijk, if you want to limit the spread of the virus, there is only one way to do that, and that is by ensuring that the contacts between people, the movements between people, become as minimal as possible. That is also what most European countries do. Whether you call that a total lockdown or what else, most European countries go further than this cabinet does. This cabinet doesn't do that. And that's a choice. I heard the Prime Minister's speech on Monday night. His first choice is to continue to spread the virus. And that's very unwise. That means more people are getting sick, more people are gonna die. And that's not just the elderly. On the intensivecare units, more than half of the corona patients are under 50 years of age. There's even a 16-year-old kid in intensive care. That is the result if you continue to argue stubbornly against the advice of the World Health Organization, which do not want to do so either, I say to the colleague of the VVD and to the advice of almost all the virologists in the world. We've seen them in Nieuwsuur, in all the programs. They say, "Don't do it; it will lead to extra sick people; it will lead to extra deaths; you will not protect anyone with it." You're only deliberately making more Dutch sick and we shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u5	What a long answer to the simple question: what is the purpose of the measures? I understand that Mr Wilders swims around it. Because if he put the goal at the centre, the goal of protecting the vulnerable and preventing a peak in care so that we can continue to deliver the care that is needed, he would know the answer himself. So he swims around it consciously. He's deliberately turning it into another purpose. And that's bad. Evil, because that leads to fear. Because that leads to situations where people think we're not doing well while we're still trying to control things. What Mr Wilders is doing is creating fear. And that is regrettable. What Mr Wilders should do is embrace the goals, the protection of those vulnerable and the prevention of that peak in care. What Mr Wilders should do is to make sure that we keep things under control. That's possible if we're gonna get on that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u6	You don't protect sick people, you make more people sick. You're not gonna make it better for the care. By allowing the virus to spread, you're making more people sick and more people are going to call on care. That's what you do. You do exactly the opposite of what the colleague of the VVD says. My group, the PVV Group, will never agree with, will never sign off on making people consciously ill, causing more people to die, so that the care is not able to handle it, making it all the way into the soup. A cabinet can never do that. Again, if you do not believe me: the World Health Organization says 'don't', the specialists from Italy, the experts from experience, say 'don't'. I don't know a virologist in the world, except for a few in the Netherlands, most of them say: don't do anything that says "stop with that." Mr Ab Osterhaus, a well-known Dutch virologist, says this morning in a large morning newspaper: if we now proceed to a full lockdown, it will care sick and dead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u7	Finally, Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u8	It is genuinely wrong to say that Mr Wilders is here explaining that there is a scenario in which we are actually infecting people as if there is anyone in the Netherlands who says so. That's really very bad. What is being worked on, the scenario chosen, is the scenario in which we try to have maximum control over the spread of the virus, because we know that the virus is there. That's a fact of life, it's there. We can't pretend it's not there. Mr Wilders pretends that it is not there and that, if we follow Mr Wilders' line, we have resolved it tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. Wake up, I'd say. It is there, and this calls for a joint approach, which calls for maximum control, which calls for what we can do to control the contamination, in particular to protect the elderly and the vulnerable and to prevent that peak in care. It would be nice, it would be good if Mr Wilders realised that and joined what we can and should do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u9	I will never join the VVD, which apparently thinks that more people should get sick and that more people should die. That's something so unethical, you can never do that. If you really want to protect people, you make sure there's a total lockdown. Then you'll make sure people stay home. By not doing so, by saying, unlike many European countries, "do what you want, go out on the streets"...................................................................................................................................................... The bad thing is that the Prime Minister is aware of that. That's even strategy. The idea behind that is that you get group immunity. That group immunity hasn't even been proven, like I said. Scientists say that isn't even clear or that it's not even certain that group immunity may develop with respect to this virus. The World Health Organization says, "Don't start that." If you really want to protect the elderly, if you really want to protect the young, if you really want to protect people from disease, then stop using that strange idea of group immunity and make sure people don't get sick. Keep them from getting sick.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u10	We are in a crisis that is unprecedented. In twelve weeks there has been a virus that has then taken hold of itself in a way we have never experienced before. There's a lot we don't know yet. There are all kinds of experts, experts, who are doing research now. Sometimes they contradict each other. There are all kinds of different approaches. The cabinet, after consulting experts, has opted for an approach. The Prime Minister said that with 50% of the knowledge you have to take 100% of the measures. Mr Wilders says that there is only one right approach, and that is my approach. This is an approach that other experts indeed point to, namely a total lockdown. Is there a trace of doubt or uncertainty in his own mind about this approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u11	Most countries in the European Union already do that. Again, they may not all call it a lockdown, but they all go beyond the Netherlands: Belgium, France, Italy, Spain, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Austria and Greece. All countries that are really not crazy and that also have huge experts behind them. They say: we need more than the Netherlands does restrict people's contacts. Why? To make sure, especially at this time, that people get sick less quickly, that people get the virus less quickly. That is the goal, now, in the short term. That's important. I don't want more people to get sick. I don't want more people to die. I don't want more people getting this virus. And I find it unimaginable that there is a cabinet, that there is a Prime Minister who says: 'target or not, I am going for group immunity'....................................................................................................................................................................................... Meanwhile, Mr Segers, people are getting sick. In the meantime, people are dying. More people are dying and more people are getting sick than if you go for a total lockdown right now. I can get very angry about that, and I think it is very wrong that it should be chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u12	I honestly don't understand this. We're in such an uncertain situation, with so much uncertainty and so many experts saying different things. Indeed, the cabinet has only one option, namely to cut the buttons, make a choice, to the best of our knowledge and to the best of its ability. What I honestly do not understand is that you even turn that into a black-and-white posture and use words like 'the Prime Minister plays with human lives'. I find that really insufferable. I want to believe that everyone here in the Chamber, including Mr Wilders, has but one goal: to fight this virus and to ensure that we protect our people. That's searching and to the best of my knowledge chopping and making choices, in the willingness to adjust, in the willingness to actually lock down if necessary. If that's what it takes, it's gonna have to happen. But I find it really impossible to speak of it with these words. Let me ask you one more question: is there even a trace of doubt? Does Mr Wilders take into account that this approach might perhaps be the right one, and that what he is proposing now might be less sensible? Does he take that into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u13	The Netherlands is still about the crazy Henkie of Europe. All the countries in Europe I will not read the list again, whatever they call it, further in limiting people's contacts. One country calls it a lockdown, the other doesn't. Part of it is similar to the Netherlands. But they're all moving on. Virologists, specialists, experts all over the world, including those of the World Health Organization, say that it has not yet been proven that there is a possibility at all for the corona virus to proceed to group immunity, that it can do so at all. And that's what policy is based on. You're not gonna play with people's lives, are you? You're not going to experiment with something that the scientists and the body that deals with it in the world, the World Health Organization, say, "The Netherlands, don't do it"? That is what they have said to the United Kingdom before. When they found out in the UK that 250,000 could be killed there, the government returned to its path and moved on to a different approach. That's what needs to be done. You can't blame me here for saying that I don't want extra people getting sick, that extra people are dying? You don't have to have any doubts about that, do you? I don't want to. And I will fight here every day for that not to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u14	But Mr. Wilders, the point is... Madam President, I would like to say to Mr Wilders that no one wants extra people to get sick. No one wants that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u15	It'll happen. It's happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u16	Everyone has one wish, namely that we protect people, that we take good care of people, that we take care of vulnerable people and that we stand right next to people in care. But you also just heard the technical briefing. Mr Van Dissel says: 'A lockdown cannot now; that is unwise. You'll actually postpone that peak, with all the risks it entails. You're hoping for a vaccine, but you don't know if it's coming." There is so much more to argue with, but what I will never say to you is that you are playing with people's lives, because I assume that you have genuine intentions and that you are also looking for the best approach. It would help, it would be good if we said that about each other. I find it really impossible to come to the cabinet with so much uncertainty about a virus that is only 12 weeks old and is rabid, with such words and such bitter reproaches, when we are all in the hair with our hands in it, all looking for the best solution and doing what we can best know, knowing that it could be different. Then you shouldn't shout yourself out; then perhaps you should tighten each other up, but don't blame each other so bitterly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u17	Especially with so much uncertainty, you shouldn't experiment with people. And that's what's happening now. People are being experimented with. I oppose this every time, no matter how often you stand on the interrupting microphone. It can't be that, if you don't know something... And that's what the experts say: "We don't know anything about that virus yet. It's only been a few weeks in the world. We don't know much about that yet. We don't even know if you're capable of building resistance to it and whether that group immunity is possible. We don't even know that." If you don't know that, and if you see that it's spreading around you, you make sure people stay home. Then you make sure you go to a form of lockdown until you know more about it. Maybe in a few weeks or a few months we'll know more about it. The story that it must last more than a year is also a myth. Maybe there's more... Yesterday there was a professor in Nieuwsuur. I will say a little more about it in my text. He said, "Go into lockdown for a few weeks or a few months, and then we'll know more about this virus." What do I blame the Cabinet for? I don't blame the Prime Minister for deliberately looking to kill people. But I blame him for his strategy of group immunity, which is unproven and scientifically based on quicksand, which means that, compared to the situation where you go to a lockdown, more people get sick and more people will die because the virus is spreading more. Every day you wait, people get infected, and later on, even if it's only 1%............................................................................................................. That's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u18	Finally. It is Mr Wilders' right to point out risks. In fact, it is his duty to point out risks in every strategy. But those risks are also at a lockdown. There are also those with a different approach. It would help in this debate and in the social debate if we were to shout a little less ourselves out with bitter accusations, namely: the Prime Minister is playing with human lives and a little more out of goodwill and tightening each other up in order to finally find the best way to protect our people. That is a duty for all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u19	The house is on fire. We need to put it out now and not push more people into that house. We need to make sure that no more people get sick. We need to make sure that no more people die from that horrible virus. Because of the strategy of the cabinet, again: contrary to the advice of the World Health Organization, contrary to what most countries in Europe are doing and contrary to what most virologists, including Dutch, say that there must be done, more people are consciously infected on the basis of a theory of group immunisation, which has not even been scientifically proven. That's playing with people's lives. That's an experiment with human lives. We can't allow that here, can we? That can't happen, Mr Segers. I'm surprised you don't have that line.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u20	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u21	Madam President. So I said put the Netherlands in a lockdown. As little traffic and contacts between people as possible: according to the virologist Ab Osterhaus, I quoted him earlier this morning in a morning's newspaper will lead to fewer diseases and fewer deaths. And as Professor Bergstrom also said yesterday in Nieuwsuur, after a lockdown of, for example, a few weeks or months, you already have a much better understanding of the disease and also a better understanding of better treatment options. That shouldn't take more than a year. Every minute you wait with that, Mr. Prime Minister, there are unnecessarily sick people coming in. Madam President, I come to the care. This cabinet has already made substantial cuts, unfortunately. This cabinet has closed hospitals with a large capacity, including intensivecare capacity. For example, the Slotervaart hospital. I have already asked seven times, including last time, last week, so I say to Minister Bruins: when will that hospital, the Slotervaart hospital, be reopened? Can you come up with a concrete answer today? When are these 2,000 Ice Beds available? Is that enough? And is there enough ventilation equipment? The only way we're gonna make it is with those 80 extra DOD devices we're not gonna make it. It was said at the briefing just now that at least 500 ventilators are still needed. I ask the Minister for Medical Care: how is that possible? It's your responsibility, Mr. Bruins, to arrange that. Why isn't that settled yet? Are there enough people in care? Shouldn't you have started that earlier? The cabinet has fired 75,000 healthcare workers in recent years. I wish you hadn't. There's a shortage of people and there's a shortage of beds. Germany now has five times more hospital beds per capita than the Netherlands and Italy has twice as many hospital beds as the Netherlands, because you have cut costs and you have closed hospitals. I wish you hadn't. Mr. Chairman. We also get a lot of reports from people who work in home care, in care for the elderly or in care for the elderly and say that they get zero protective measures: no mouth caps, no disinfectants, nothing at all, when they come to sick people and old people, with all the risks that this entails. How is that possible? That's a shame, isn't it? Those are the people who work in care, and they do not have protective equipment. What are you gonna do about it? When will they be given their protective equipment? How long will that take? Mr President, I will conclude. The PVV has a lot of criticism about how to combat the virus, but let me conclude positively. We wholeheartedly support the economic package presented yesterday. Exceptional times call for exceptional measures. It is a good thing thatzzp'ers and companies, from KLM to florists and the catering industry, and all the people who work in it and who have got into trouble by this cabinet, are being generously helped. I'm glad. In France and Germany, Heads of State or Government promised yesterday that they would not let any company go bankrupt because of the corona crisis. My question to the cabinet is: are you prepared to endorse that statement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u22	This morning, the chairman of the RIVM said that group immunity is not the target but a possible consequence, because we can't control the virus. Does Mr Wilders agree with me that a total lockdown, as he advocates here, for a year, I just heard him say, is also an experiment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u23	I do not know what you have in your ears, but I have just said that it should not take a year. I just referred to the professor at Nieuwsuur yesterday, who said that if you did that for a few months if you needed it, you would already know a lot more about the virus and also about the treatment methods. So it's not. It's an image that's being sketched. The Prime Minister also writes in his letter that there are a lot of scientists who say it should take more than a year. Not all scientists say that. It doesn't necessarily take a year. But I'm telling you one thing, and that's why I'm saying we have to go to a lockdown: I can't accept that, based on a theory that the cabinet seeks and leads to group immunity, we're not proven and maybe we're wrong at all, we're going to say, "People, don't stay home. And maybe we don't want group immunity, but actually that's the goal." Because if you want group immunity, you want more people infected. That's the purpose of group immunity. That's: get infected. And the thought behind that, Mr. Asscher, is: most people don't get very sick anyway. And that may be the case, too, but that little part that does get sick gets very sick. And if only 1% or 0.5% of the people who get infected die, you're talking about tens of thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands of people. We can never choose that, can we? Then you can never say: your story is even a theory? No, we need to make sure that doesn't happen now. I don't want people getting extra sick tomorrow and maybe dying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u24	That's not an answer to the question. The question was...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u25	That's the answer you're gonna get.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u26	That happens all the time, but I would like to repeat it; you do that sometimes. The question was: does Mr Wilders recognise that the proposal he is putting forward here is also an experiment, and that we now see in Wuhan that there are more infections? Does Mr Wilders recognize that? I, too, have questions about the words chosen and the strategy chosen. But Mr Wilders says: I know better and there are just as many scientists to find; you need to set a total lockdown for an indeterminate period. Perhaps Mr Wilders is right, but does he at least acknowledge that what he is presenting to the Netherlands at the moment is an experiment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u27	I'm not a virologist. It's...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u28	You just said it here!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u29	Maybe I'm talking right now. Not I say that; that's what the World Health Organization says. He says to the Prime Minister: do not; it is now far too early and too uncertain to start with that theory of group immunity. He says that for the reason I just told you. I say that we must ensure that, as long as we do not know, we do not expose any more people to that disease. That means, and this is not a theory, but just the practice, that you have to do what many other countries in Europe already do: make sure that people stay home. Make sure of that in the first place. Then you know one thing for sure: that fewer people are infected than if you don't say that. That's not a theory, that's the reality, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u30	One last time, Mr. Chairman. We agree: group immunity as a kind of strategy and infecting as many people as possible should not be done now. You shouldn't do that at all. Neither does the Netherlands, the chairman of the RIVM reported this morning. It's a possible consequence of the approach, he said, but you can't get group immunity with a vaccine until 60% of people are protected. That's completely different from how you picture it here. My question is this. Suppose we accept that in fact we have no choice but to control maximum and that is what the Netherlands is doing now. I also have questions about this: is the cabinet doing enough and is it on time? But you are saying here yourself, you are quoting others, but you are saying yourself that for an indeterminate period, we must now go into total lockdown. Does Mr Wilders recognize that this is an experiment in itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u31	How can Mr Asscher say that we have no choice but to continue to spread the virus? Of course you can...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u32	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u33	I think I have the floor, Mr President. Of course you cannot say what Mr Asscher has just said. Of course you have a choice. You have an alternative. That alternative is the alternative for which almost all the other countries of the European Union choose. Shall I read you the list again, Mr. Asscher, of the countries that do all that? Nearly all countries in Europe do so, such as Belgium, France, Israel, which is outside Europe.... Italy, Spain, Czech Republic, Hungary, Austria, Greece. They all go further in limiting people going out now, doing things and then risk getting sick. That's a fact. I say that we should do more too. And then you do get into a lockdown. I do not want the Prime Minister to say, on the basis of a theory of group immunity which has certainly not yet been confirmed, even more so, about which many scientists have doubts, that I am not doing a lockdown about being the only one in the European Union, and then people get sick, and then we get group immunity in the long run. That's unacceptable. We will never sign for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u34	The Netherlands is now facing one of the biggest crises we have ever known. Hundreds of thousands of Dutch people are now watching live at home with this debate. What these Dutch people need is that we, as politicians, show the same solidarity as we now see in our society. Here in this Parliament, we must ask the cabinet critical questions about how to deal with this corona crisis of the cabinet, but we must do so with each other in a decent manner. We must do this in a way where we can assume that everyone who is present in this Chamber now has the best interests of the Netherlands and has only one goal, namely to protect as many people as possible and ultimately to allow as few people as possible to die from this terrible corona crisis. Mr Wilders stands here with an almost jealous determination to proclaim his own theories as the truth, while he has just said in his own contribution: there is no scientific consensus on what is the best approach to combat this corona crisis. Can Mr Wilders confirm that we have only one task here, and that is to deal with this corona crisis together and not politically with a small p companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u35	But we don't do that by making extra people unnecessarily ill. So don't come up with your general and lovely sweet words about unity and all that. I would like to do that, but I cannot unite to a cabinet that, unlike most European countries and unlike the advice of the World Health Organisation... your party used to be very impressed with what that international organisation said..................................................................................................................................................................................... That's what they do. And I say don't do that, because that's unwise. I can't agree to a cabinet if the leaders of that cabinet deliberately let more people get sick to build group immunity? I don't believe in that. Scientists don't believe in that. The World Health Organisation does not believe in that. I don't want people getting sick. I don't want people exposed to it. I don't want to. And as long as the cabinet does, I'll fight it. Of course with respect, but I may have my opinion here, and I will proclaim it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u36	Mr Wilders may have his own opinion, like everyone else in this house, but we also have a joint responsibility here to keep some peace during this corona crisis. Mr Wilders is now pretending that there has just been no technical briefing explaining in peace that it is not the cabinet's strategy to just infect everyone. No, the strategy is to make as few people as possible sick and die and to actively protect vulnerable groups in particular and to prevent the peaks in care. We may ask each other critical questions about this, which I will do in a moment, but it would adorn Mr Wilders if he did so with some respect and some civilisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u37	But both the points raised by Mr Jetten, Mr D66, are not correct. We may differ on the strategy, but you do not think that the cabinet's strategy is to make so many people sick, but that is the result. If you don't lock down, the result is that more people come into contact with and become infected by the virus. The idea that we should also have this group immunity in the Netherlands or, as Mr Jetten said, that we should protect the weak, does not happen either. People who already believe in group immunity, I don't believe in it, and scientists don't believe in it either, say you need at least 60% of Dutch people infected; some virologists even say 70%, 80% or 90%. At least 60% of Dutch people must be infected by that virus. That's almost 10 million people, Mr. Jetten. Half of them, what do I say, about 40% of the Dutch population have been over 50 years of age. So if you keep that strategy, older people get sick, too. 40% of the Dutch are over 50 years old. So you can't just do that with younger people. But I don't like younger people either. I told you before: there are also younger people in the Netherlands on ic's. In half of the ic's in the Netherlands, corona patients from under 50 years up to and including teenagers, people who, when they recover, have also heard that during the briefing, often have their lifelong complaints. If you spend two or three weeks on ice in the Netherlands, you probably won't be able to work your whole life, you'll have permanent damage. You can't step over that lightly. We shouldn't want that. We need to protect people from the virus and the best way to do it now is to ensure that there is as little contact as possible with other people and we put the Netherlands in a lockdown.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u38	My group was also equally confused and concerned about the group immunity that would or would not be a strategy. I also understand that it has scared a lot of people. But what we did next is to look carefully at what the World Health Organisation is advising and whether the government's approach is in line with that. Our conclusion so far is yes, but our appeal to the Cabinet is also that everything we do must also be in line with the advice of the World Health Organisation to curb the spread and ensure that care remains available to all those who need it. My question concerns the point made by Mr Wilders, who was actually a reproach to the cabinet, in the vein of: you acted too late. I think that as a politician, we are really responsible for preventing unnecessary dangers in time. And then my question concerns what the World Health Organisation has been telling us for years, namely that the collection of large numbers of animals where avian influenza can occur is a danger, in the sense that it can mutate into a virus that passes from human to human. If we do not want that danger to be added, it means that we will have to radically review the livestock sector. I ask Mr Wilders whether he is prepared to support that line.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u39	No, I am not at all prepared to start a debate on livestock farming now that we are talking about a major crisis and what that means for people. Oh, come on! Please. Do that another time with Mr Graus somewhere in a room, but not with me here now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u40	I find this too easy, especially for a party that is now blaming the cabinet for being late in action. This is a risk that we have been warned of for years. Now that the corona crisis has burst, we see that once the virus is there, there's no way to go. Then the drama is very big. We're being warned about this. Scientists say that mutation of the avian flu is close to humans. It's not a question of when it's gonna happen. If Mr Wilders thinks that we should not allow people to take an unnecessary risk, I ask him: does he think that the concern can be felt if this virus pops up?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u41	That's the avian flu, but we don't know anything about this virus yet. So these are all success in the air of the Lady of the Party for Animals. What you say applies to another virus. My point is that scientists say: we don't know anything about this virus yet; we don't know if there's immunity; we don't know how and where............................................................................................................................................................................................ You're trying to draw some kind of general line, but that's a total blow in the air. I'm not going along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u42	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u43	I have to conclude, however, that the PVV is unfortunately shielding with advice and warnings from the World Health Organisation now that this crisis is at stake, but it is looking away when the World Health Organisation warns us of future viruses which, if they break out, may have a greater effect than this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u44	I think we've got our hands full fighting the corona virus and solving the problems right now. We really don't need to use other viruses, as the Party wants for the Animals. For the corona virus, the necessary measures must now finally be taken, i.e. abandoning the idea of group immunity and ensuring that people are protected and no longer sick. That's what I'm advocating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u45	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u46	Thank you, Mr President. "The coronavirus is among us," said the Prime Minister in his speech to the Netherlands. I think that's a truth like a cow. It is a very annoying truth, but we will have to be honest about the consequences of the outbreak of this virus. We see that a pandemic creates mixed feelings. Fear, but also connectedness. Hammer behavior, but also solidarity. Happiness for what is done, but anger for what is left behind. My group realizes that it takes quite a lot to lead a country in which hope and uncertainty alternate. In that sense, I would like to thank the Cabinet for all its efforts and thank all those who have contributed and advise on the measures. Of course, I also express my condolences to all those who have already lost a loved one, who are deeply concerned about possible self-disease, or who are concerned about relatives who may be ill or loved ones who have to work in care. Hail to all who do their utmost and strength for the people who have already affected the virus. Mr. Chairman. The Party's commitment to the Animals will and will continue to be based on the advice of scientists. This means that, with the best knowledge we have now, we must do everything we can to reduce the spread and keep care available for those who need care, not only for the people affected by the coronavirus, but also for those who need care and treatment for other reasons, including in intensive care departments. We need to relieve the burden of care as much as possible so that the people who work there, whom I thank very much once again, can handle the work. We see that this is also the commitment of the cabinet, the so-called flattening of the curve, so that you remain below the critical limit of what our care can handle. But it does seem that the use of the term "group immunity" was clumsy. A lot of people got scared by that. There has also been a lot of criticism about us internationally. The Animal Party has also been concerned, but has then looked at what the World Health Organisation has actually advised. If we look closely at this, we can see that the cabinet is taking the measures advised by the WHO. Our appeal, our condition in fact, would be that all the follow-up steps should be constantly monitored on the basis of the latest state of science, not only that of the RIVM and our own outbreak team, but also that of the WHO: is this in line with the advice of the World Health Organisation? Additional measures should also be taken immediately if necessary. Can the Cabinet agree to that? Can the cabinet confirm.... because I think that is necessary... that creating group immunity is not the strategy? We also heard in the hearing this morning that there is still a great deal of uncertainty as to how this immunity is to be obtained. Does it even exist? How long will it last? Is that where the cabinet keeps its finger on the wrist? Mr. Chairman. The concerns have been expressed earlier: the lack of protection materials, the lack of testing. Can the cabinet tell us what the latest state of affairs is? 'Cause people need all the effort they can get. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the economic measures. Between Sunday and yesterday, the government made a very rapid turn when it comes to financially supporting people who are losing their income. The Party for Animals is happy about that. I would like to refer to the statements made by Minister Wiebes, who have caused great concern to many people who work as a social worker. And then I express myself carefully. If we now see what the cabinet comes up with, then fortunately that has been corrected, although we think that supplementing the income forzzp'ers to the social minimum is a little lean. Can the Minister for Social Affairs state whether he is prepared to see if that can be increased to the minimum wage? Is there any insight into which groups are at risk of falling between shore and ship? We see, for example, that the food banks are ringing the bell about a lack of food and about a lack of volunteers. The Animal Party also wants to point out that the people who now have to work through, the so-called vital professions, are by a large majority the professions that are low paid and generally low valued. These are the people who are now maintaining the vital interests of the Netherlands. Can we not only now but also when this crisis is starting to get away with it, appreciate it by paying these people better? Mr. Chairman. The starting point of the Party for Animals is that people need help. And keep companies on their feet: yes, but with one condition. Corona is not the only crisis we face. We are dealing with a climate crisis, we are dealing with a loss of biodiversity, which, in this debate, I would like to say very briefly that together we are also creating an increase in infection pressure. That's what we're warned about. So that means that, in addition to the very necessary support to people, individuals who lose their income and get into trouble, the cabinet is going to look at which companies have to keep it up, which cannot be separated from all the other challenges we face. So companies that do fit into that new economy that stays within the limits of the earth, definitely keep it going. Making new investments in new economic activities that fit in. But companies that can't possibly get through on their old feet, I call them Schiphol, I call them KLM, which of course we're not going to hold up at all in this form. People are also really surprised that those two were in the front row to hold their hands. And we cannot get a repeat of the banking crisis, where the Netherlands has to pay for irresponsible behaviour and the people who make a lot of money. Mr. Chairman. Finally. We don't know a lot of things, but one thing we do know: if man had left the animals alone, we wouldn't have had a corona crisis. I have just said it in an interruption debate with the PVV: these warnings are not new. In fact, they're penetrating. We really don't just have to point to China to say that's where many infections come from. The Netherlands with its huge livestock farming, with its huge poultry farming, sits on top of a ticking time bomb. So my questions to the Prime Minister are as follows. First of all, does he think we can have it if a virus like that mutates?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u48	Secondly, is he prepared to significantly reduce these risks in the further development of these measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u49	Mrs. Ouwehand says that KLM was in the lead in asking for help. Now a package was presented yesterday by three ministers. How often did the company name KLM fall during that presentation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u50	Many measures are still being developed, so it is good that Mr Segers is asking for them. My appeal to the cabinet is: look carefully at the further development of the economic package to which companies you want to keep up and in what form. KLM will continue to exist, but we also know that Schiphol Airport is too large and that the number of flights in the Netherlands has to go down drastically. This must be taken into account in the further development of economic measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u51	My question was another one. Mrs Ouwehand says: KLM was at the front of this cabinet. It would have been mentioned first. How often was KLM mentioned during the presentation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u52	I think it's zero times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u53	Zero?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u54	But we want to be sure that the further development of the economic package will include the other crises, I refer to climate change.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u55	That's a bit of a strawdoll. First you say "KLM is first" and then you're going to criticize that choice. That choice wasn't made. It was aboutzzp'ers. It was about hairdressers. It was about the coffee lady around the corner. That was the first concern. Next, it is about SMEs. It's about ordinary families with incomes, who are afraid they can't pay their mortgage anymore, and they can't make ends meet. That was the focus of the presentation. Then you shouldn't paint here the picture that KLM is in the front. 'Cause they're not up front.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u56	Then there's been a misunderstanding. KLM stood at the front to hold his hand together with Schiphol. We have also seen the Finance Minister, who said at Buitenhof: everything to keep this crucial sector alive for the Netherlands. That's what I'm worried about. So I supported the package that was presented yesterday, certainly. My group also says: helping people. People who lose their jobs or lose their income. There may be a need for further measures. I think that this cabinet is going to look further at the economic measures that are still needed, and my party would like to amend the statements made by the Minister of Finance: we are not going to do everything we can to ensure that Schiphol and KLM continue to operate in the way they have operated so far. That's my call to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u57	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u58	Mr. Chairman. Compliments of the Prime Minister's speech last Monday. This was exactly what the country was waiting for. A fair message about the scale of the crisis we are in and an explanation of the strategy. Yesterday's announced socio-economic plans give the confidence that the government will really do whatever it needs. I would therefore like to express my support for this cabinet's approach from this point of view. But like many people in this country, I do have a number of questions about this approach. From the briefing this morning it became clear that there are two goals. Firstly, the prevention of the peak and secondly, the protection of vulnerable groups. Can the Prime Minister explain how the controlled building of immunity contributes to achieving these goals? Can the Prime Minister address the question of whether social discrimination is sufficient to achieve these goals? How quickly can we start and scale up the production of medical protection materials in the Netherlands? Can we enforce that all mouth masks present here in the Netherlands become available for care? We heard in the briefing this morning that 500 ventilators are needed. I would like to hear from the cabinet what the plan is to acquire it as soon as possible. In what way do we relieve all those people in those vital professions in their home situation? What I haven't heard yet is attention to the food banks, which are out of food for their customers. How do you ensure that the poorest in the Netherlands are not without food? Mr. Chairman. It's far too early to draw any conclusions from the corona outbreak, but I dare say one thing. This crisis shows us who we are deep down as people and as a society: not a gay economist, but a gay empathic. Every solution to this crisis is based on cooperation, collaboration between hospitals in Den Bosch and Breda, cooperation between scientists from the Netherlands and all parts of the world. Nobody talks about the importance of competition to get out of this crisis. Remember this. Everyone, from young to old, stresses the importance of solidarity, of taking joint responsibility. No one is talking about the own responsibility of entrepreneurs and workers who are out of income. Remember this. Once and for all, it is clear what the crucial professions in our society are: nurses, teachers, cleaners...................................................................................................................................................................................... Remember this. Who has heard anyone say in the last week that the economy is more important than our health? It is quite clear that the health of those we care about, the health of our society, is more important than economic growth, profit and shareholder dividend. Social distancing is difficult for many. We're sorry we have fewer social contacts or we can't travel. We miss the contact, an arm around you, the embrace of people who care about each other, the unexpected encounter with a stranger. We don't miss the fight and the middle finger in traffic. We're all worried. We all know a parent or a young person who is seriously ill and therefore extremely vulnerable. I don't hear anyone complaining about Muslims or Christians, about whether someone lives with a man or loves a woman. If this virus teaches us one thing, it's that we're all human and, when it really comes to it, we're all vulnerable. Last night's applause I found touchingly beautiful, but also a little painful. The people we all clapped for were always the beating heart of our society. And finally they got the recognition they deserved. We'll have to give it to them when this crisis is over. It is quite right that we should support and praise the heroes who run our society. But they're not the only ones who need our support right now. The first messages reach me from people who cannot assist their deadly relatives at this time. The first messages reach me from funerals where people can't hold hands. We are doing everything we can to deal with this international health crisis, but we must not forget all these crises on a smaller scale: people whose treatment is cancelled, people who are no longer able to go to the psychologist or psychiatrist, people who see their social or financial safety net evaporate, people who are forced to sit at home making the home situation a horror. Forget about the survival of the fittest. Survival of the kindest, that's what it's all about. We have to help each other, support each other and listen to each other. For them it may feel as if the light is no longer shining, as if the world around them, as if the earth has become dark. For all these people, I'm going to put a candle in my windowsill from tonight, because for these people too, the light can never go out. Mr. Chairman. This virus is not a Chinese virus or a French virus or a Dutch virus. It's a global pandemic. We're all in the same boat on the unpredictable sea we call clinical COVID-19. We will all have to row in our own way with the belts we have. The question we need to ask each other now is not: where are you from, what is your political color, what is your faith? The only question that matters now is do you need help? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u59	Thank you, Mr. Clover. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u60	The question we must also ask, Madam President, is: do we want to limit even more contacts between people, in the sense that many other European countries are doing it, or do we not want that to happen and do we continue to believe in that group immunity, whether it is the goal or the result? How's GroenLinks in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u61	If Mr Wilders' whole tirade were right that the cabinet wanted to make people sick and that the idea of the whole strategy was that if we got group immunity and there were as many people sick as possible, that the way to salvation would be, I would have to say: I support Mr Wilders. But that's not true. What we're trying to do with each other is get two things done. That is first of all to protect the most vulnerable people in our society, and to ensure that when vulnerable people become ill, it is not all at the same time, so that our medical capacity can handle it. We need to take action to do this. Social distancing is what we're actually doing right now. We closed the schools. One question I asked the cabinet is: is that really enough to contribute to the goals we have set? I can just imagine it's not gonna prove sufficient in the end and you're gonna have to go to a lockdown. But right now in time, when I look at this morning's briefing and what the specialists say, I say that we are not there yet. But we can't rule it out. The most important thing is that we say together that we are prepared to do so and that we take that step when it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u62	Maybe you'll find time to answer my question as well. My question was: do you not think that if we don't go to a lockdown now, then there will be a result; you don't have to be a scientist, even though they say that more people are getting sick and that more people will eventually die, that more people will suffer from it? That is also why the World Health Organisation says "don't do it, the Netherlands" and that many other countries in the European Union go further than the Netherlands. So do you not agree with me that as long as the theory of the cabinet is not scientifically supported or proven, we must now ensure that as few people as possible become ill? Surely it is too crazy for words that a colleague should put that interruption in the first place? Do you not agree with me that as few people as possible should get sick and then perhaps also die unfortunately again, and that we should therefore ensure that, as in other countries, there is more than just a lockdown? That's a very legitimate question, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u63	There's no one here who doesn't want to prevent a lot of people from getting sick, nobody at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u64	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u65	There's no one here who wants to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u66	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u67	But, Mr. Wilders, I think you're standing here making too easy politics. There's a virus, a pandemic. There is. It won't go away, even if we all go into lockdown. He's not leaving. And the big question is how, as a society as a whole, we can get through this responsibly. That's gonna have huge consequences and huge consequences. And yes, I hope I would almost say: I pray that as few people as possible get sick. But here, just as easily, pretending to have the solution through which we can get through this crisis, fight the virus and nobody else gets sick is false, false and unworthy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u68	Mr Klaver seems to be having a difficult time, because he is again not answering my question. He's talking about hope and prayer, and it's wonderful when people do; I would like to support that wholeheartedly. But I'm afraid it's not enough. Nor did I say that the virus is not there or is not coming, or all of those crazy words from Mr Klaver. I just said: isn't it logical that if, as all other countries do, we now say "people, stay home more than we already are, we're going to a lockdown" than less contact between people makes fewer people sick? Answer the question. Don't you think it's okay if we do that because we're gonna make fewer people sick? Again, it is ridiculous that I have to ask colleagues this question at all. Everyone should say: I want fewer people to get sick now, we are going to do what many other countries are doing, and that is restricting people's contacts more I don't know how long that takes, but now that is the most sensible decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u69	Look...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u70	Answer me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u71	I answer all the time. It's just not an answer you like. It's almost intellectual laziness to say here: "You know what? We're doing a lockdown. We have no idea how long it will take, but we'll see." Do you know what you're saying? What you're proposing is that we put everyone inside, when we have no idea how long it's gonna take and we don't know if this is the solution. What we are trying to do now is not an easy message, but I support the cabinet and it has to be said. We are gradually trying to limit the number of people who get this virus. We are also making it a priority to protect the most vulnerable. I hate to suggest that a total lockdown could prevent people from getting sick. That's not true. If you say that limiting further contacts means that the virus is spreading less quickly, I think that is correct. That's why it's all about the size we have to choose. Which contacts do we allow and which ones do not? That is a constant consideration. We've made choices about that now. We have to keep following that constantly. Normally, you would say day to day, but I would like to say from hour to hour, or they are still correct. I do not rule out the need to scale it up in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u72	After three or four interruptions, there will finally be a start to an answer from the Group Chairman of GroenLinks. He says now: yes, Mr. Wilders, if you say that the virus is spreading less and that fewer people get sick if there are fewer contacts between people, then so be it. We don't need scientists for that, Mr. Clover. We don't need anyone for that. If you and I find that, there's only one solution, isn't there? That's to make sure that's what we're gonna do. Make sure there are as few contacts as possible. Make sure that we do what the European Union is already doing. This means that we need to reduce these contacts more. You cannot say: that is true, but I support the cabinet. That's from eating both sides. That doesn't help people. Make sure with me that people get less sick and people have less contact with others. And for the time being, yes. Of course that's not for a lifetime. That's for the time being, because that's the best and the only solution now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u73	Mr. Wilders, what became very clear this morning in the briefing, is that the question is not whether a lot of people end up getting infected, but when and where in time. What you are proposing would mean that perhaps fewer people are infected now, but that they will then become much more infected later in time. In other words, we all have the same goal. There are different ways of doing that. I think it is important that at a time like this, a moment of extreme difficulty for our country, we try to stand here together for this enormous task, rather than blaming people for wanting people to get sick or to get people killed. That's what you did, Mr. Wilders. That's exactly what you said to this cabinet. If you have an ounce of respect in you, you take those words back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u74	I hear Mr Klaver say that in his view the cabinet wants people to get sick in a controlled way. Those are, as I understand it, the last words he just said. I see him shaking no. Can he explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u75	No, the goal is that we protect people who are vulnerable, that we avoid a peak in the number of hospitalizations that are needed and that we try to make as few people as possible sick. But it can't be ruled out where we are with this pandemic, that people are getting sick. That's what we're trying to control. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u76	Okay, so the goal is for as few people as possible to get sick?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u77	As little as possible people get sick, at the right time in time, so that our medical systems can handle it and we can protect those who are most vulnerable. In all honesty, I would prefer to stand here and say "there's a vaccine, it's dissolved," but there isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u78	At Nieuwsuur, Jaap van Dissel received the following question from RIVM: so you say it's actually better if more people get it? His answer was: that is indeed the idea behind this policy; we want the virus to go around. So what you're saying is contrary to what the Cabinet is doing. That's very important. I have the feeling that you don't quite understand the implication of what is actually being done. So we do not want as few infections as possible, as you say and so do I, but we want the virus to go around. That's the policy. This was also reflected in the Prime Minister's speech, which Van Dissel called "excellent" on television; two hands in one belly. The Prime Minister and the Chairman of the RIVM share the same view of the approach to this issue. It is clearly not that as few people as possible get it, quite the contrary. That vision is that the virus is circulating. The idea behind that is that one believes in group immunity, and that doesn't work. There are examples of this. A woman in Japan got it for the second time, so it doesn't work. If you want as few people as possible to get it, you need to bet on it through as much social isolation as possible. If you want the virus to go around, okay. Then maybe you can do what we're doing now, maybe in a controlled way, they think. In the coming days, it will probably prove impossible to control. But it's two-and-a-half.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u79	My problem with Mr Baudet's question is that it seems as if there is anyone in this cabinet who wants to, or that I would like people to get sick. Nobody wants that. The fact is, there's a virus going around real fast. The question is how we can control it as best we can in our society. How can we ensure that people get infected at the right time in time? We all want no one infected. I'd like you to have a vaccine. What we have been able to see and what scientists are showing is that the consequences of a lockdown are that the number of infections may be temporarily reduced, but that we will see a peak again later in time. In other words, I do not think anyone here wants people to get sick and we all strive to keep the consequences as limited as possible. It is a question of where the infections take place in time. That's what I think the Cabinet does. That is the approach that we can support, and I hope you will support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u80	The crux is in the word "according to me." In your opinion, that is what the Cabinet does, but that is not what the Cabinet says it does; it is just what their policy is. Again, the idea behind the policy is that more people get it. "We want the virus to go around." That is something fundamentally different. You can stay in your own dream world of what you think is the intention of the cabinet, but you have to look at the policy. The policy is specifically aimed at not limiting contamination as much as possible, but at allowing it to circulate in a quasi-controlled manner. That is what they want, because they want, as Prime Minister Rutte said, to pursue group immunity and only afterwards to do so! - Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, That came out of Rutte's speech. Now a kind of twist is being made: no, we wait for a vaccine and only after that comes the group immunity. Because they can see for themselves that this policy is not working. I predict that in a few days' time the lockdown will come, but then it is again a matter of getting behind the facts and again too late. The sooner, the better; the fewer victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u81	Mr Baudet himself was in the technical briefing of the RIVM. There it was very clearly stated that pursuing group immunity is not a goal at all. I would, however, like to acknowledge that the words of the Prime Minister, the Netherlands, needed it, have also caused unrest, as has been said here earlier. I think it has also been clarified what it means. I say "as far as I'm concerned" because the cabinet still has to answer. This is the explanation we give to what the cabinet is doing. If this is indeed the line by which they work, it can count on support. I would also like to ask Mr Baudet the following. We are all responsible for getting out of this crisis. The approach we adopt must also really be aimed at protecting as many people as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u82	Yeah, well, if you want to, then you have to make sure that there are as few contact moments as possible. That is not exactly what we are doing in the Netherlands. "That's right," I hear you say. But that is not what we are doing!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u83	People work at home, schools are closed, the number of companies... We're doing social distancing. So it's not like it's laisser-faire. Reference is made to all kinds of criticisms made by the WHO, but they mainly focused on the United Kingdom, where they said for a long time 'well, we see, let it go'. The situation in the Netherlands is completely different. Measures have been taken here. You may ask yourself, I have also asked whether the measures we have now proposed to maintain social distance to each other are sufficient. That is the question we must constantly ask. Mr Baudet says: in a few days we will go all the way to that lockdown. It could be. That could be a few days from now. It could be in an hour or a week. But I think we should all take this step into account in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u84	But the point is: the sooner you do that, the fewer victims you have. The problem of Rutte's policy in this whole crisis, since the beginning, since we called for that debate on 28 January and they did not want to keep it, is that we are running behind the facts. If you set a lockdown in three or four days, you'll be back on the curve and you'll have many more victims. The sooner, the better. So why don't you support the proposal that Wilders and I are no doubt going to make in a motion to actually set that lockdown today? 'Cause the sooner, the better. Don't you get it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u85	Do you know what it's difficult to have a debate like this? You can say, if we just put everyone in quarantine, there's no further spread. That's right. That's true. That is what you always fall back on: if we lock it completely, then there is no other...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u86	Look at countries around us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u87	I was talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u88	Look at Israel, Spain, Italy, France, Belgium, Austria, Hungary and you name it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u89	Mr. Baudet...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u90	Look at all those countries, Singapore, Taiwan, Hong Kong. They all have a successful approach. You can see that the curve is getting flatter there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u91	You made your point very clear. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u92	I think I was giving an answer, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u93	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u94	The tricky thing about having a debate like this is this. You can say, if we just quarantine everyone, there won't be any more contagion. The interesting question is, what do we do next? Don't you think I'm thinking: how wonderful it would be if we could make sure that no one gets sick by leaving everyone at home? The question is, what's next? It is our responsibility as politicians to answer them. We put people...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u95	I can tell you exactly that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u96	No, no, Mr. Baudet! Mr Klaver will finish his sentence first. Then you will have the opportunity to respond and I will go to Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u97	It is easy to make the decision to say: everyone stays home. But the question is, what then? Let's hope there's a vaccine soon. Then you might be right that it works. But what if we have to leave people at home for a long time, maybe a year? That's why this is not a perfect strategy, not a perfect method, but one that works and allows us to maximise the chances of as few victims as possible, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u98	I can tell you exactly. If you have a short period of lockdown, the sooner we start it, the shorter that time will take. If there have been no cases after a week or two, two and a half, no complaints have been reported, you are almost sure that people do not have them. Then you know you've got it under control. Then you know where it is. That's one. Two: by then, we will be able to take all necessary measures to prepare for new infections. Think of increasing the capacity of intensive care, ordering mouth caps, ordering ventilation equipment and ordering tests, so that we have enough tests everywhere in the Netherlands. So you're buying time. Three: the risk of developing a vaccine or other ways of increasing resistance is increased. Four: the weather is getting better, and in general we know that respiratory diseases will decrease. People's resistance also increases, because it gets better, and so on. Five:...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u99	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u100	... because countries around us are also taking this kind of action, the chances are exponentially decreasing that it will come our way from abroad. That's five very good reasons to do this. That was your question, and this is the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u101	I understand you're still waiting for your turn, but you've already said everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u102	I have a lot more to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u103	Yeah, that's what I thought. Would you like to respond to this, Mr. Clover?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u104	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u105	Then I'll go to Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u106	If you are not convinced by Mr Baudet's good arguments, I believe that there were six of them, you may be convinced by the latest figures. Maybe they show you that we shouldn't wait another second and that we can't afford a discussion, that we can't say, well, we're waiting another day or a week or a month. Today, Mr. Klaver, only today, 15 more people died compared to yesterday. Fifteen people have died of flesh and blood and 346 new infections have been added. Never before have so many people joined in one day. That shows we don't have to wait. Every day we linger, there are only more people who have unfortunately died or become infected. I hope to find you on my side, our side, to make sure that we are now even for a few weeks, if necessary for a few months, saying: "Enough is enough. We're gonna try to narrow it down. We may not be able to get rid of the virus. We can't get rid of the fact that more people are gonna get infected. But we're going to limit it, because these numbers are unacceptable. Now, cabinet, a lockdown, otherwise we will have extra dead and sick people again tomorrow and the day after tomorrow."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u107	These numbers are horrible. There's not a moment that goes by that I don't think about the people who are sick right now, who are just because no one can be with them, who are fighting for their lives. There's not a moment when I don't think about the next of kin of people who have been affected by this virus and have died. And yes, we must take all measures to protect these people. This may also mean that we impose further restrictions on the contact that people have with each other. That's what we're gonna decide with each other. I'd really like to make a call to everyone. This kind of far-reaching intervention and action cannot be announced by motion here in the Chamber, but it must be done in close consultation with all experts, with the Cabinet and with the Chamber. In this way, we can reach an approach that the Netherlands is getting through this crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u108	Thank you, Mr. Clover. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u109	Mr. Chairman. Our society is affected by a great calamity that directly threatens the lives of many of us. A more serious subject for a debate in this house is not conceivable. It's about life and death. Everything else falls in the balance. This calls for extreme austerity, pettyness and, above all, solidarity. The realization that we all stand for one goal: to survive together, with the emphasis on "together." In doing so, we can take an example of what many Dutch people now mean to each other. I am thinking of the heroic deeds of doctors, nurses and paramedics, of the teachers and school leaders who now allow children's education online and at home, of the students and neighbors who do shopping for the elderly and of all those people who do not ask for their money back for cancelled stage performances and concerts to keep the culture makers alive. The Dutch are united against this crisis. And the government is standing next to them. From my group, I would like to congratulate the economic aid package, which employees and entrepreneurs, large, small and self-employed, were so eager for. Even now, people must continue to be able to pay their rents and groceries. This can be achieved through the extensive arrangements for the payment of wages, the postponement of taxes and income support forzzp'ers. All very sensible and necessary. I also call on utilities to prevent the closure of gas, water, light and telecommunications if people can't afford it. And I make a call to landlords: avoid removals and lower rent for shopkeepers, if possible. Mr. Chairman. Compliments especially for all those people in the care. The national applause yesterday was a beautiful, moving gesture. But I do ask the Cabinet: how do we ensure that all those people in care have sufficient resources to be able to do their job safely? I look in particular at mouth caps and breathing equipment. I also saw many people responding to that national applause yesterday: thankful, but also with the call for us all to leave full shelves in the supermarkets at the end of the day for all those care workers who want to do their shopping at the end of the day. Mr. Chairman. Many Dutch people abroad are also worried. When can they expect clarity? And what can the Prime Minister say about this mega operation? Are we working well with the other countries in the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u110	Of course, I agree with Mr Jetten, Mr D66, that this joint applause for the people in the care was wonderful and that they deserve it from us every hour. But you know, even more important than applause is that they can do their job well. It is also a little difficult to hear that applause from you, which I am sure is sincere. However, it is in the context that you have been the party that has supported the closure of hospitals in recent years. In Lelystad, in Almere, in Amsterdam, in Helmond and in I know how many places you have closed hospitals. Your party has also been the party that, with the cuts that my colleague Mr Agema has resisted for years, made sure that 75,000 people who worked in health care were fired. That's what you signed off on. So it is beautiful and probably also sincere, I have no doubt that you shared that applause yesterday, but it would have been much better and the people would have benefited much more if you had not closed those hospitals and not fired those people. It would've been better now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u111	In my view, we should, above all, look at how we are now supporting the health care staff who are working day and night for our public health. There must be sufficient financial resources for hospitals that now have to advance large payments. There must be adequate protection measures for the people in care. That doesn't just apply to the hospitals. I also see moving calls from many employees in nursing homes or in mental health care. There too they ask: think of us too, and make sure that we also have adequate protection measures. That must now be the full focus of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u112	I understand that Mr Jetten would rather not go into it, but it is true that all those hospitals that have been closed also had capacity for intensive care. We would have had more places for intensive care by now, I-don't-don't-know-how many more places for intensive care. They had hospital beds, too. Those 75,000 people in the care that have been fired with your support in recent years could of course have been a great help. They probably would have liked to, because they were fired against their will. So, of course, it's important that we focus on the situation right now, but you also have to take responsibility for what you've done. If you hadn't closed down those hospitals and hadn't fired 75,000 people from care, we'd have been better prepared for this crisis. At least admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u113	Hospitals have indeed been closed in recent years, but that was for a different reason on a case-by-case basis. I have always agreed with Mr Wilders that the recent closure of hospitals in Lelystad and Amsterdam has been overtaken. We have not sufficiently ensured that it was done in a decent way. What I see today is that people are working their asses off to deliver good health care and that people who have worked in healthcare before are now also actively reporting to all those places where they are jumping to the bed for extra hands. What the cabinet can do now is to provide sufficient financial resources for all those care institutions and adequate protection measures for all those people working there. There are still a number of areas where this is not right. Let's please focus on that in the heart of this crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u114	Finally, Mr President. I fully agree with Mr Jetten that we should focus on this. But I do want that said, and people know, that if you had kept those hospitals open and those 75,000 people out of care weren't fired with your support because of blunt cuts in care, it would have been a lot easier now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u115	We have also invested a lot of extra money in healthcare in recent years. One of my fellow Members also said: this crisis once again shows us that this is a crucial, vital sector. I hope that after this crisis we can look again at how we can continue to support the healthcare sector well for a long time. Mr. Chairman. In a crisis like this, time is often short. Then emergency powers and emergency packages will be taken into account. Let us congratulate ourselves on having this debate on how to deal with the crisis here. We can speak openly about this struggle in the best democratic tradition and ask questions to the cabinet. The government bases its approach on scientific views on the corona crisis and various advices based on it. That does not mean that we should pretend that there is full consensus in science on the best strategy. On the contrary, denying scientific uncertainty is denying the nature of science itself. Uncertainty and moving insight are the engines of science. If there is no scientific clarity about the best approach to a life-threatening problem, then it is up to politics and this cabinet to choose. Those choices, which are responsible for this cabinet, are lead- and lead-heavy. However, there is also a need to be held accountable. My group puts the value of human life at the heart of all circumstances. People always have absolute priority over economic interests. It is therefore a good thing that the cabinet chooses to protect the most vulnerable groups in our society and prevent peaks in care, so that we can get through this corona crisis with as few victims as possible. In this light, I do have a number of questions about the approach adopted by the cabinet, and in particular about the term 'group immunity', the conscious acceptance of a very large-scale infection over a longer period of time. This approach seems to be different from that in many other countries in the world and in Europe. That has led to unrest and fuss over the last few days. I would like to thank RIVM and the specialists at Erasmus UMC for this morning's technical explanation, but I would also ask the Prime Minister to explain once again in this debate on the basis of which opinions were adopted for this strategy. According to the Prime Minister, where are the biggest differences in approach with countries around us? I also have the question: I think it is very important that the Prime Minister should take us into it, as he did on Monday evening when measures are being scaled up. There are also legitimate questions and concerns about the number of tests that can be carried out. This was also discussed at length during the technical briefing this morning. My question now is above all: what period do we expect to get new test material? Because how are we going to know if we have group immunity with a serious shortage of test material? Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude by once again appealing to the Minister to provide sufficient protective equipment and all medical equipment necessary for the care staff and people who will be infected in the near future. Coordination is in order, but the direction of procurement sometimes seems to be lacking. Minister, make sure that stuff gets here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u116	I still have a question about the Prime Minister's speech last Monday. He may have been very open and honest, but a lot of people who have watched were also very shocked when the Prime Minister said: assume that in the coming period a very large proportion of Dutch people will be sick of this virus. There has also been confusion in this Prime Minister's speech about what exactly is meant by group immunity. The Prime Minister says that we are going to limit the virus and try to control it, and at the same time we are working on some sort of controlled form of group immunity, pending the development of a vaccine. I have a question about that, because Mr Van Dissel said very emphatically this morning: a vaccine is a crucial part of building group immunity. That is a problem that the cabinet is now creating. What exactly is the strategy? I think that clarity is a big problem. I wonder whether Mr Jetten agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u117	I understand Mr Hijink's question very well. I think the Prime Minister's speech last Monday was a good speech and it wasn't a day late either. The first weeks that the corona crisis manifested in the Netherlands, we may have communicated too little from the government about what is going on in the Netherlands, what measures we take as a country and why that is wise. So last Monday we actually had to catch up in that information and communication to all Dutch people. That was an impressive and extensive speech, which I saw as a wake-up call for all of us that we really face a huge challenge. It was perhaps in that sense so much information at one time that we all wondered at home: have I actually kept to that social distance in the last few days and are we as the Netherlands well prepared or not? That is why it is a good thing that we are having this debate today, not just to do small politics, but to ask each other these questions to the cabinet, so that the cabinet can explain that strategy properly once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u118	The strategy must be sound, but it must also be clear and clearly communicated on what exactly the strategy is. We were here last week in the debate discussing the schools. In that case, far-reaching measures were announced last Sunday. Now we have a speech from the Prime Minister in which he actually says to the people: assume that a large part of you get sick and we are going to do our best to protect the most vulnerable people. That is a message that has fallen very raw on the roof of many people, especially since the Prime Minister's speech does not make it very clear how we are going to achieve this group protection. I wonder whether D66 has that idea, or whether we should ask the government much more clearly what the strategy is. Is that lockdown a solution? No, that doesn't seem like the idea is that the virus should spread controlled. We have to get that clarity today, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u119	Yeah, we need to get that clarity. I believe that the explanatory statement from the RIVM this morning has already helped with that. I trust that this will be the case in the near future with the presentation of the Prime Minister and the other ministers. Maybe I can get a few things out of it. A little selective shopping has just been done in the quotes of the director of RIVM by colleague Baudet. It always brings in the first part of the quote, namely: we let the virus circulate in society. No, the quote is: we let the virus circulate among people who are relatively healthy and in the meantime we protect the most vulnerable in society. Meanwhile, we're working really hard on a vaccine. That could take months. That vaccine is a crucial part of reaching group immunity. For the main goal, protecting vulnerable people and reaching group immunity, we just need a little time. I would also like to say a few things about the lockdown. Not so much by Mr Hijink, but by others in this debate we are now pretending that we have not yet taken any action in the Netherlands. The word "lockdown" sounds delicious, but we have already closed the catering and sports clubs in the Netherlands, the public transport is switched off, the schools are fortunately closed, so that children now just get home education, and a lot of people work at home. When you walk on the street, it is relatively extinct and fortunately more and more people keep to the rule of at least 1.5 meters away. So we are already at a stage in which we have scaled down enormously as the Netherlands. Politicians who here pretend to go much further in other countries than in the Netherlands, present here a wrong picture to the Dutch population. Once again, I know that Mr Hijink is not part of this, but I would like to ask him once again to stress that we are already taking far-reaching measures in the Netherlands. I fully agree with the Prime Minister, who said in his speech: if it is necessary to take further action and impose further restrictions on the spread of the virus, then we will do so. D66 will fully support that, but on the basis of the knowledge of scientists who properly advise us on the best approach at this very difficult time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u120	But then I will continue to communicate, because it must be clear. We get a speech from the Prime Minister, in which he says: assume, Dutch, that a large part of you will be infected with this virus. He also says that we assume a form of controlled spread of the virus. He literally said that. A day later, he says, "We don't rule out a lockdown." If...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u121	That's what the speech said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u122	If that's necessary, we don't rule it out. Does Mr Jetten understand that this is becoming an unclear story for many people? On the one hand, it is said that we want a form of controlled distribution to a certain group of people. If you're talking about millions of people, I think it's gonna be pretty complicated to be able to control that, but okay, that's the idea. This is very difficult to reconcile with the remarks made by the same Prime Minister about a possible lockdown, which is also an option. Does Mr Jetten not agree that the strategy pursued by the cabinet should be much clearer and more clearly explained?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u123	Last week, in the debate, we discussed in detail the issue of public communication. I think it's really improved since last week. I see special communication from the government on social media. There is a separate website. Unfortunately, there is not yet a coronajournaal, which we have asked Chamberwide for. My appeal to the cabinet would mainly be to continue with that better communication, which was actually launched from Sunday, with the press conference of Minister Bruins and Minister Slob. Then there was the Prime Minister's speech on Monday, and yesterday the press conference of ministers Koolmees, Hoekstra and Wiebes. This is the proactive communication I want to see from the cabinet. At the same time, I am saying to the people at home, because I think a lot of people are following this debate now, and we too simply do not know how this is going to develop over the next few weeks and months. We cannot give 100% clarity and guarantees at the moment. All we can do is continuously explain what we are doing and why we are doing it. We all have a responsibility to deal with this crisis. Anywhere else we can improve that, we need to do so. I fully support Mr Hijink in that. But I really think that the cabinet has been communicating better since last week than at the beginning of this crisis. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u124	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u125	Mr. Chairman. It cannot be said often enough: respect and thanks. That's, for starters, what I want to say to all those people in care or who fight the corona virus anywhere. She and all the other Dutch live in the bitter reality that it is a fact that a large part of the Netherlands is going to get infected, that it is a fact that there are currently more than 2,000 people tested positive for corona and we have more than 50 deaths to regret. And that's a disaster, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands then saw and heard a Prime Minister saying that he should take 100% of the decisions with 50% of the knowledge. I think 100% of the Dutch want this Prime Minister to avoid 100% of the risks. That brings me to the key question that this Prime Minister has to answer today: is he doing enough to protect the Netherlands and all the Dutch? Mr. Chairman. In the past week, Dutch people have seen a government that sends conflicting messages. A government that first decides not to close the schools, continues to defend and persevere, to come back to that a few days later. Last Sunday, the schools finally closed down. The question to the cabinet is: why, last week, when the whole of society asked for it, when a significant part of the Chamber asked for it, didn't it already decide to close the schools? Isn't this cabinet going after the facts? This already says the leading virologist in Belgium. He says: The Netherlands is going to come back to this. In the meantime, we see once again that countries around us are taking far-reaching measures to combat the corona virus. After Italy and Austria there is now a total lockdown in France. In Germany the shops are closed. Countries such as Denmark and the Czech Republic have closed their borders. And here we have a prime minister talking about having the virus controlled to spread to build group immunity. A prime minister who therefore rests in order to have most of the Netherlands controlled to get the virus. Why are no further measures taken in the Netherlands, as in other countries? Why does this Prime Minister rely on the theory of group immunity, a theory that is highly criticised? Does the Prime Minister realize that in order to build group immunity, more than 60% of people should have the virus, that our care system cannot handle it and that this will lead to a huge number of deaths? Is it true that we do not know at all whether anyone who has had corona will become immune and, if they become immune, for how long? Isn't it irresponsible to have a virus controlled when we don't even know the health effects? How can this Prime Minister make policies at all if we do not, as the WHO recommends, test, test and test? And how can the Prime Minister maintain that the risk to young people is low, while 50% of the people with the virus in intensive care are under 50 years of age? Mr. Chairman. That's a lot of questions. I could ask many more questions, but yesterday the economic aid package was also presented. The two main measures of the cabinet, thezzp-government and the emergency control bridging employment have not yet been completed. Why aren't they finished yet and when will they come into operation? And how are the arrangements actually feasible? Will the municipalities be able to cope if hundreds of thousands ofzzp'ers suddenly apply for welfare benefits? And the tax authorities, where it is already a total chaos, could they suddenly ask hundreds of thousands for postponement and reduction? Why don't we choose another route? Why does the government not choose to transfer 90% of the wage bill mentioned in February to the relevant companies with the condition that they continue these amounts to the employees, and that there will be ex post control? Mr. Chairman. I would also ask the government to urge municipalities to waive local taxes on companies for the period when companies are closed on the advice of the government. Another point is that there are currently 50,000 Dutch trapped abroad. DENK wants the government to make every effort to facilitate the people who wish to return to the Netherlands. The DENK Group would also like to ask the government to ensure that airlines are not abused by charging usury prices for tickets. At the end of the cabinet, DENK wants to know why it was not chosen, as in France, that the government guarantees mortgages, rents, utilities and health insurance. Why is support for vulnerable entrepreneurs promised only for three months and not for longer? Are the people who have to deal with this closure well over three months? Mr President, concluding. We are having a debate with the government today, but we will only overcome this crisis if everyone in society does their own. Yesterday I was for the necessary groceries in the supermarket. Of the eight checkouts, two were open. Exactly those two cash registers closest to each other were open. In these times, you would ask that the extreme cash registers are open and not the two cash registers closest to each other. So there's still a whole world to win. But it is especially important that we look at each other and keep our distance, take no unnecessary risks and, above all, follow the advice. Then I'm left to say, "Keep trusting you're gonna be okay." Hang in there, Holland. Lots of good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u126	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u127	Mr. Chairman. We're fighting each other against an invisible enemy. The virus is an assassin, which we must not underestimate. This is a global battle. A battle that, I think, makes a lot of people, and maybe all of us do, the fear of heartbeat. At the same time, when you look in the Netherlands over the last few days, you see a lot of people who rely on the principle that fear is a bad counselor and who are based on courage and solidarity in everything they do. We also see at these very moments, when we have to keep physically more distance from each other, that man realizes that he comes to justice in relation to another. I think that both Mr Klaver and Mr Ouwehand have shown this very nicely. That is why I would like to begin by expressing my appreciation and incredible respect for everyone who is now in the front line of care, but also for all those people who have demonstrated the strength of our society individually and together over the last few days. People helping each other massively. Individually, or with spontaneous actions. Or through civil society organisations or churches. By shopping for vulnerable people. By taking in kids. I also mention the way in which home education has been set up so quickly. I have a lot of respect for it. But I would also like to express my appreciation for the cabinet, which, in the weeks leading up to that, has taken almost unthinkable and far-reaching decisions, both in society and in the care sector, but I also mention the historic package that was presented yesterday. At the same time, we also see how much uncertainty, uncertainty and fear remain. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister to explain once again in detail in this debate, following the very good technical briefing this morning, how this strategy of maximum control has been achieved and what its purpose is. I would also ask him to explain the differences between European countries in practice. You also heard a lot of different stories about this in recent days, while Mr Van Dissel said this morning that you actually see in practice that the words may be different, but that the countries are very much alike. I would also like to ask what the Prime Minister said yesterday and the day before yesterday at his addressing the nation, namely that the Netherlands could scale up. What are the moments when this is being considered and is it true that the ic capacity is the guiding principle? Does the cabinet therefore share that this has to be weighed from day to day, because every day can count when it is necessary? What is being done to quickly scale up that ic capacity and to ensure that there is sufficient staff and equipment? Mr Gommers was very clear about this this morning in the technical briefing. We're gonna need more ventilators. The number of 500 was mentioned. It was also stated that Defence's offered ventilation equipment is not yet available, but it was also said that TU Delft and the University of Twente are now working very hard on this. It was also indicated that both the Chamber and the Ministry of VWS could do more to push for those devices to come. What pressure is that? What more can the Ministry do and what more could we as a Chamber do? I have the same question when it comes to protective material, such as mouth caps. It also indicated that there should be more pressure for them to come. At the same time, we are seeing reports this morning that aircraft have landed and that there are indeed more mouth caps, but what else can happen? What else does the department have to do to ensure that these mouth caps are available as soon as possible? This seems to be one of the biggest bottlenecks in these days. I have the same question about testing. It has been very clearly stated this morning that there is a worldwide or at least in the Western world a very large shortage of tests. At the same time, we know that testing, if this crisis takes a long time, will become important and even more important in the long term. How are we working with countries to ensure that there is sufficient testing capacity? Mr. Chairman. This crisis affects all of us, including economically. The package presented by the cabinet yesterday offers many people security or at least more security in these extremely uncertain times, whether they are entrepreneurs,zzp'ers or employees. I would also like to ask the question that several people have already asked. The Minister for Social Affairs also mentioned it at the press conference yesterday. How can measures be taken and how will they be enforceable for UWV and Tax Administration? The Minister of Finance said yesterday that this would cost 10 to 20 billion in the next quarter. Can he explain how the Treasury can continue to carry these measures for a longer period of time? This virus didn't just disappear. I also have specific questions about our food chain and the necessary transport. Is the government on top of that food is going to leave the country in good time, that it will also end up in our shops and that supplies from abroad will continue to run smoothly, especially if this crisis continues for longer? When it comes to that ambiguity and those questions I was talking about at the beginning, you can see that a lot of people want to do the right thing, but not always know exactly what that good thing is. Should parents of children who are themselves at risk be allowed to play with other children or not? When is the party gonna be canceled? What are you doing? What aren't you doing? This knowledge and information is of crucial importance to the well-intentioned. The Heink motion adopted last week calls for further communication. I want to know from the cabinet what they are doing to get that information even more from the people of good will, but also what is being done to act against people of evil will, who knowingly do not comply with the regulations and who create such danger to themselves, but also to others. What can be done about it? I find it very unfortunate and I also think it is a bad turn for TV channels that they do not participate in the coronajournaal. Mr Hijink's motion, which I believe we have all supported, calls on the cabinet to work more closely on this communication strategy, and I think it is very necessary. Mr President, I will conclude. To overcome this crisis, it is important that we all take responsibility. I call on everyone again: try to minimize your contacts, try to keep your distance from each other, avoid crowded places. If we all continue to do our part, I am convinced that we can overcome this virus. Then let's do that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u128	We wholeheartedly support the call for all to participate in this. I have two questions for the CDA group. I am quite right to hear the CDA point out the limitations on the availability of necessary resources in the care breathing equipment, masks and on the food system. Corona is a zoonoses, a pathogen that has been skipped from animal to human. We have been warned about avian influenza in the Netherlands, for example. We already notice that when such a virus breaks out, you run into major problems with your care capacity. Does the CDA think it is justified to keep looking away from that other risk we were warned about? The second question is connected with this. It's about the food system. The Minister of LNV said in an earlier debate that Corona may also have an impact on livestock farming and that we will continue to join those plans. I think that means that you must also limit the breeding of animals, because when things stop, all those animals are in the stables. What measures does the CDA propose to reduce both the risks posed by livestock farming and to ensure that this corona plan is implemented for livestock farming?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u129	We are facing a very big crisis, a global pandemic. So I would also like to say, like Mr Wilders, who did so in his term, that there are many places and times to debate the future of livestock farming, not only with Mr Graus but also with Mr Geurts. This crisis, as well as the negative hoarding, shows us how important it is for food supply to be up to date and that supply is there, and therefore that we, as the Netherlands, continue to cherish our food supplies, our farmers, because this crisis also points to its importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u130	Look, I get that people are trying to put this point away as "not right now." But it is not as if we are being warned of this for the first time today through the Party of Animals. There is a risk that viruses may arise from our dealings with animals, viruses that can skip over humans. We saw SARS and we saw the Mexican flu; it was called swine fever first, because it came from pig farming. We see that we have been warned about intensive livestock farming in the Netherlands, with a large poultry farm, and that scientists say: it is not the question whether but when such a mutation takes place. It's been swept away before. I shall now start, and I would like to make the point: not at the moment. Then my simple question is: when then?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u131	There have been many debates on this subject. Mrs Ouwehand, in a question to Mr Wilders in the first term, almost suggested to me: yes, it may have originated in China, but it is also up to our farmers. I disagree. The debate on the future of agriculture is being held in a variety of ways, even in the nitrogen debate, which now seems to be equally relative in the context of the major crisis we are having today. At the same time, this crisis also reminds us of the importance of producing our own food, of our farmers and of maintaining good food supplies, including in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u132	That's where Mr. Heerma does something ugly. I haven't talked about our own farmers at all. I simply refer to the warnings from the World Health Organisation, for example, about the risk that viruses from livestock farming may pass on to humans. In fact, two thirds of the viruses we're dealing with are from animal-human contact. So we're being warned of a possible mutation. My simple question to the CDA is: how responsible is it not to reduce that risk? We can't handle the corona crisis right now. If a virus like that pops up, if anything else comes up... I think it's really irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u133	I also find it very irresponsible to put our food supply at risk. This crisis has made that clear once again. The debate that Mrs Ouwehand wants is indeed taking place in a lot of debates, and there are still a lot of debates to discuss this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u134	The SP very much agrees with the CDA that it is very good that there is a package for small and medium-sized enterprises and other companies, for the self-employed and for those who are now out of income. That's very important. What we are concerned about is the group that threatens to be forgotten. Those are the people who are already struggling, people who depend on the food bank, homeless and homeless people and people who are now threatening to evict or seal off gas, water and light. I wonder if the CDA with the SP is prepared today to ask a cabinet proposal to support this group precisely so that we can ensure that the food banks remain stocked, ensure that no people are expelled from their homes, and ensure that where people get in trouble who really have nothing, they don't get into any more trouble because of this crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u135	I think Mr Hijink is right to point out all kinds of people who are struggling in our society. I did hear him ask questions about homeless people. I think they're justified. I am also curious to hear the response of the cabinet to this. Mr Jetten spoke in his term of office about landlords and housing corporations, and what they can do at the moment to prevent people from getting into unnecessary trouble and leaving homes that are not needed. I think that, too, is a fair question. I would also like to hear from the cabinet what is happening with this and whether the cabinet is also talking to municipalities and housing corporations in order to avoid this as much as possible. I am also curious about the answer to the questions about food banks. I have also seen all kinds of initiatives from restaurants and hotels to bring food that they could not lose there. Mr Hijink indicated that he might table a motion. Whether I support this, I would like to make it dependent on the answers of the cabinet, but I think that attention should also be paid to these groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u136	I want to prevent us from getting good measures in one place to help these people and not in another place. If it is up to me, there will be a plan from the government to make the same agreements with all housing corporations and other landlords and a national plan for how we will help people who depend on the food bank, for example. I hope that the CDA will support that, so that we will not get it settled in place a and not in place b, but that we will make good agreements for this group, just as for the people who work, the self-employed and the companies, nationwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u137	I have indicated that on all three points I think the questions are right and I support them. I just want to hear what the cabinet is saying, even when it comes to talking to municipalities and housing corporations, precisely to prevent these house expulsions. We will undoubtedly discuss this further in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u138	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. I now give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yesterday at 8 p.m. there was applause throughout the Netherlands and that was perfectly right. It was a round of applause for all the caregivers, for the people who are now on the front line. They deserve that applause very much. It's nice to see that the entire Dutch population sympathizes with our caregivers in this way and supports them. The question is whether this support is also there for the strategy currently being followed by the cabinet. The Prime Minister said that the virus is here and will stay with us. He states that as a fact. A fact that a large part of the Dutch population will be infected with the virus. His strategy is to slow down the spread of the virus and at the same time to build up controlled group immunity. He wants, as he said, to build a wall around the most vulnerable people. This is a strategy that raises many questions both internally and abroad. The WHO, the World Health Organisation, even warns strongly about this government's policy. According to the WHO, there is no evidence whatsoever that there is such a thing as group protection. On the contrary, the WHO recommends testing as much as possible, while we hear and see in our country that in many places there is less and less testing. I would like to ask the Prime Minister how he responds to this criticism. Why is there so little testing in our country? Can the Prime Minister explain the consequences of his strategy and why communication, even in the last few days after his speech, was so messy? Is the cabinet's intention for the scenario they have chosen also taken into account the number of sick and the number of people who will die on their way to group protection? Is that part of the trade-off? What exactly does controlled distribution, as the Prime Minister called it, look like? How does this cabinet intend to control the spread when many millions of people will have the virus? Can the Prime Minister explain the difference between the number of sick and the number of deaths that we may experience in the three scenarios we heard this morning by Mr Van Dissel of the RIVM? We already see that people who we really want to protect are getting sick, like the elderly, but also caregivers. Every day, the SP receives reports from healthcare professionals who have to do their job without protection or who are almost out of work. Several hospitals and general practitioners are either completely or almost out of stock. Neighborhood nurses, household care and people in disability care work completely without protection, while they come to the floor with the most vulnerable people. It seems only a matter of time before caregivers become massively ill. My question is what the cabinet will do to prevent this. Are there lots of extra material on the way? Can suitable materials used in industry, for example the chemical industry and construction, be advanced to be used in our care? Is it being considered whether the production of such protective materials can be started at home? Does the government recognise that, if the choice is made to build up group immunity, it is extremely important that caregivers who come to the elderly's home receive the best protection? Mr. Chairman. We have also heard in the briefing this morning that there is material available in the defence sector, but that it is being held up for all kinds of bureaucratic reasons. I would like to hear from the cabinet why it has to take so long and what is being done to get that equipment and resources to hospitals quickly. We would also like to receive an update today from Minister Bruins on the capacity in hospitals. And what does he do about the development of medication and a vaccine? Is the Minister prepared to make funds available to work on direct clinical research in public institutions or elsewhere, after research being carried out by public institutions, in order to work together on this? What measures does he take to prevent pharmaceutical companies from using corona vaccines as a earning model or, as we have seen with President Trump, from claiming the largest rich-world vaccines for themselves? Can the Minister also indicate what he's going to do towards the 170 private clinics in our country? We hear that there are at least 300 ventilators available there, that there are protective equipment available there, that there are staff there that can possibly be used in other places. I wonder what the Minister will do to exploit that capacity. Mr. Chairman. Many Dutch people are currently facing acute financial problems. The SP is pleased that this cabinet is coming up with a large package of measures. But why doesn't the government opt for the minimum wage instead of the welfare? There are also major consequences for callers and people with a zero-hour contract. Employers are compensated for labour costs, but can always choose not to call someone. What can an employee do if he has a zero-hour contract and isn't called up now? Is he or is he not eligible for compensation? Why is it not chosen to include flex-contract workers in thezzp scheme so that they never run out of income? Mr. Chairman. Other people are also in trouble: the homeless and homeless. It's the most vulnerable group. They need our help now. Can the cabinet come forward with a plan for this group in the short term? We also hear that housing corporations in many places temporarily stop evictions and shut down water and electricity from people who can no longer pay their bills. That is, of course, a good thing. I would ask the Cabinet to take care of that throughout the country. I would also like to hear from the cabinet what is being done to help and support people who are now working in the youth care and ggz, because if care is stopped in the ggz and youth care, then a lot of extra people will be in trouble. I'm hopeless now because of my time, Mr. Chairman. So I'm putting an end to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u140	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. I now give the floor to Mr Veldman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u141	Mr. Chairman. The reality is that the corona virus is among us and will remain among us for the time being. These words spoke our Prime Minister last Monday. He was right to appeal to us all, to our common sense and to the general interest over self-interest. That message has, I hope, arrived at all Dutch. Mr. Chairman. In this situation we know a few things for sure so far. One is that we don't know everything for sure. It is precisely now that we need to use the experts' answers as well, insofar as they can answer the questions that exist, of course in the knowledge that not everything is certain and that tomorrow, the day after tomorrow and next week may look different. Mr. Chairman. Based on the knowledge of experts, the cabinet chose the strategy of controlling the virus: maximum control to ensure a controlled spread. The aim is to protect the elderly and the vulnerable and to relieve the burden of care; to spread it over a longer period of time, so that the care remains manageable. Every approach will be critical and there will always be people who do not think the measures are sufficient. I understand that the strategy chosen may raise questions and present dilemmas, but let us tackle these dilemmas together and not stand up to each other. Everyone sees that an uncontrolled and uncontrolled spread of the virus is not an option. With the cabinet the VVD shares that a total lockdown may sound attractive, but does not bring us what is needed. The adoption of measures appropriate to the control of dissemination will have to be kept under constant review. What are we gonna do and what aren't we gonna do, and especially how? And: how executable is that? Mr. Chairman. I repeat my call for constant attention to be paid to communication. I see improvement, and that's good. But in today's world, as the Prime Minister said last Monday, news and information are faster than light and an opinion is quickly given. Fake news, uncertainties and misconceptions are spreading like wildfires. It is therefore a must to continuously organize the flow of information and filter out the nonsense. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, there is still a lot of hoarding in many places. This is an example of a message that we may need to repeat more often, namely that it is something that is absolutely unnecessary in the Netherlands. Perhaps that information needs to be better substantiated, so that people understand that we in the Netherlands have no problem with our food supply. There's plenty. In addition, I believe that there is one measure that should be much more explicit in communication, namely keeping a distance of one and a half metres from each other. Mr Van Dissel emphasized it this morning in the technical briefing: people's behaviour is the most important thing at the moment, with every measure we take. So every Dutchman must be repeatedly permeated to keep appropriate distance from each other. Mr. Chairman. The capacity of the number of ic-beds is increased. That's good, of course. From this morning's technical briefing, I understand that there is even more rack in it. I also read that self-employed treatment centres in the Netherlands will make staff, equipment and protective equipment available. That's very good news. We need this kind of cooperation. But it may be that more is needed. Can the Minister indicate what steps he is going to take to further increase the number of ic-spots if necessary? Others have already asked: what about the short-term availability of protective equipment? What is the situation with regard to redistribution through the regional organisations for acute care? What about the medium-term availability of medicines? There are still signs of imminent shortages. Wholesalers put pharmacies on rations. Can the Minister indicate what actions he is taking now? Mr. Chairman. The corona virus is also hitting our economy hard. Horeca has to close mostly, companies andzzp'ers lose their jobs. The economic and social damage can be or become unprecedented. The package presented last night is massive, unprecedented and sturdy. Special times call for special measures, and that is what they are. This package is a very special package. But everything stands and falls with speed. How do we prevent companies from having to pay their bills by the end of this month but not having income and thus potentially falling over? How do we ensure that all the measures now announced are up and running or, in good Dutch, operational, so that it also works? Mr. Chairman. The VVD finds it impressive to hear that residents and medical students have volunteered as volunteers to relieve the burden on the care staff. In any case, I see a lot of beautiful social initiatives, from people themselves, from organisations and from companies, to help each other. I would ask the Cabinet to embrace all such initiatives or at least to ensure that the bodies we know, such as the Consumer & Market Authority and the Personal Data Authority, do not stand in the way at this time. However important such rules are, in the situation we are in, this must be taken into account. Mr President, I will conclude. I say again: let us keep our peace and keep our minds clear. Every Dutchman has the responsibility to follow the advice, for himself and for his environment. Do whatever it takes. I would like to thank everyone in the vital sector, especially the care staff, for their hard work, and everyone who is infected or is infected with the virus strength and want a good recovery. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u142	A brief question from Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u143	I also ask the VVD Group how it sees the risks we have been constantly warned about. Corona is an expression of that. Our handling of animals can lead to new viruses that are incredibly dangerous. We are warned that we are also on a ticking time bomb in the Netherlands, especially with our large poultry and bird flu. The VVD has swept away these warnings a bit so far, but shouldn't we significantly reduce that risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u144	I am going to give Mrs Ouwehand the same answer she has had from previous speakers. Yeah, she's making a point that we absolutely need to talk about. Yes, I think there is enough room in debates that will not be on the agenda this week and probably not next week, when I look at the planning, but they are going to come, to discuss it with each other, as has been mentioned earlier. And yes, that also means that you have to look at the full, wide picture. I can agree with what Mr Heerma said: we also have a good food supply in the Netherlands. We have to do that for ourselves, but we also provide much of the world with food. It has its value. In this sense, we must also cherish the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u145	I understand that the people who are speaking here today, the group chairmen or their replacements, are not the agricultural experts. However, we have to conclude that previous debates on this have always led to the minimising and downplaying of that risk, while we are strongly warned about it. If this spokesperson says today "I don't know yet," when will the VVD take this risk seriously? Because if that virus is gonna mutate, which we're being warned about, and human to human, we really can't have that. In fact, chances are it's gonna be even worse than the corona virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u146	We are talking here today about the corona virus and what that means for our concern, how we ensure that the spread of that virus is maximum controllable. I think it is very good to have the debate at another time on the concerns that Mrs Ouwehand expresses. On behalf of the VVD Group, Mrs Lodders will be happy to do the same with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u147	Thank you, Mr. Veldman. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u148	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to wish everyone better health and strength who is now sick or worried about sick family or even worse. The second thing I want to do, in the footsteps of others, is to thank all those people who are working so hard to get us through the crisis. These are, of course, the people in the care sector, but also the vital professions around them. Let us please make sure that the appreciation that is now there will also be expressed in the Netherlands after corona. You can see how vital these vital professions are. Let's please make a change to that that stays. When I say thank you for all the cogs in the gear that keep us running, I also mean the professions that may be less noticeable. I call the policy officials who are working on all these arrangements at night, but also the people who are sitting here now and helping us through the crisis. Thank you and respect for that. This should not, moreover, lead us to give applause here, because a cabinet in crisis is also entitled to opposition that is fair and critical. That is why I have the following questions and comments. The first is the strategy. How do we deal with this now? One of the problems that arose after the speech was that one has got the feeling that we choose group immunity as a kind of purpose. It has been argued that this leads to 40,000 to 80,000 deaths. Then many Dutch people, especially those who are vulnerable or have someone in their environment who is vulnerable, feel part of some sort of big experiment. I guess I didn't mean to. It is how it happened, especially by the phrase "with group immunity you build, as it were, a wall of protection around others." That implies that we focus on that. In my opinion, and as I have heard from the director of RIVM, our only strategy is to control contamination as much as possible. So preventing infection, making sure people don't get sick. Don't let it go freely. Only that's what we do in the knowledge that a lot of people are infected and that even if you lock everything and everyone else, you don't kill the virus with that. The boss of the RIVM said group immunity can only be achieved with a vaccine if you can protect people in a safe way. So I'm asking the Prime Minister to be very clear about that. I didn't think it was fair that it was said this morning: it's framing that that happened. No, that image was created by itself. It happens. All the more important is to make it clear in the crisis: no, we choose no different than the other countries, the Netherlands does not feel better; maximum control is our goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u149	I have one question. From Mr Rutte's speech comes the phrase "that we need to build group immunity in anticipation of a vaccine." Pending a vaccine, build up group immunity. So the order is: first group immunity and then, waiting maybe, a vaccine. Does that, in your view, also contradict what the RIVM chairman said this morning, as in my view, in diametrically?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u150	This can only be done as a result of the fact that there is no vaccine yet and the virus is around, but never as a strategy or as a goal. So the target has to protect his people from that infection. Because it's there, people who get better and get rid of the virus will self-destruct immunity. But that absolutely cannot mean that we are not working with man and power on a vaccine and that we are not trying to prevent people from getting infected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u151	That's clear. I agree with that. But the point is "in anticipation of building a vaccine group immunity." That's a quote, not a paraphrase, from Rutte's speech on Monday night. The president of the RIVM said this morning: building group immunity cannot be without a vaccine. Those two statements are in flagrant contradiction. It's either one or the other. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u152	Well, you can't say 60% of the people we're gonna do before there's a vaccine. 60% can only be with a vaccine. That's what RIVM's boss said. I think it was also the intention of the speech, but I ask the Prime Minister to confirm it, otherwise we will indeed have a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u153	They are two totally opposite policy directions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u154	It can't be a policy to wait for a vaccine. No, the policy must be: prevent contamination and maximum control. We heard the boss of the RIVM very clearly. My question to the Prime Minister is, because this... And it was a good speech; no misunderstanding about that. It is not that easy either, but that is also the work that needs to be done now. So today it must be clear that the Netherlands is in fact taking the same line as the countries around us. We're talking about the size here. We're talking about how. We are talking here about how we can best shape this social distance as effectively as possible. We're talking about how to better protect the vulnerable. There is no strategy other than that, given the context we are in. So it is not a choice to say: we are now going to build as much group immunity as possible. Maybe that was your hero Johnson's idea. He left that. That is not a passable road.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u155	I don't know what you mean. Johnson, that's no hero of mine at all. So I don't know where this all of a sudden comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u156	Okay. Sorry about that. I shouldn't have said it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u157	Yeah, but it's just what was said. It is also the consequence of this policy, isn't it? That's what the chairman of the RIVM said at Nieuwsuur later that night: we're going to let the virus go around. I'm fine with you saying now that the goal is to prevent contamination to the maximum. That's what I want. But you don't have to talk back to me about what's crooked right now, do you? The day before yesterday, the cabinet simply set out a completely different strategy and it now appears to be completely wrong. But we can recognize that in all honesty, can't we? On Monday evening, they argued in favour of it, and I quote again, that society should build up group immunity while awaiting a vaccine. The president of the RIVM will explain it later at Nieuwsuur. And again, I quote: we have to let the virus go around as much as possible. That's what they were arguing for Monday night. Yesterday, we and others all made a few notes and said: boys, which leads to tens of thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands dead, we should not do that. Today we hear a different story. That's fine. Rutte even says that a lockdown is a possibility. But then let's just be honest. They just made a mistake. They bet Monday night on a totally unworkable and wrong scenario. You can just say that, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u158	First of all, I apologize for what I just said about Johnson. I actually wanted to keep that out of the debate. Then I don't have to do it myself. So I'm just responding to Mr Baudet's questions. I heard a little more. I didn't hear, "Walking around." I heard the boss of the RIVM say, "under the group where that's the least dangerous." Nevertheless, it causes confusion. 'Cause with "let's get around," it looks like you're pulling out and thinking, "Let's let it happen." If that were the line, I wouldn't support it. After this morning's technical briefing, I understood something else and I see the cabinet's strategy much more in line with the rest of the European Union: maximum control in a complicated context. But I'm asking the Prime Minister to clarify that. The fact that I'm critical of the effect of some of his words doesn't mean that I think it's so easy or that I think it's intentional. I think it is fair, I say in the direction of Mr Baudet and in the direction of Mr Wilders, to assume at least that we all have the same intention here, namely to reduce damage, reduce contamination, reduce deaths, protect public health. Inside, it's our job to put them on fire and make sure they do it as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u159	I fully agree with the latter. The fact that I am critical of the debate stems from the ambition to achieve maximum, optimal policies. In this sense, we have the same objective in general terms. Absolutely. But I do think we should be sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u160	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u161	It is precisely at such a time that we are asked to just look critically and not just come up with anointing words. I really think at this point: if you say that you want to put maximum effort on preventing infection, then you need maximum social isolation right now, so that you know who are infected. And that's the problem. We don't know. That also became clear in the hearing this morning. We have no idea. I don't know! So if we speculate now and say "we expect that the capacity of intensive care will not become overloaded in the next few days, because... yes, we just think that's what we're doing."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u162	I do not think that is a fair reflection of what Mr Gommers said this morning. He is the chairman of the Association of Intensivists, who is responsible for intensive care capacity. I thought it was very important what he said about that. He didn't say, "We don't worry." He said: it's spicy, it's very intense. But he also said there's capacity. And: the plans are there to expand it. And he actually called on us to force the cabinet to work for the next stage in advance, if that is necessary, he hopes not, and I hope that he will prepare us with him. But you cannot say, as I heard Mr Baudet's summary: we have no idea. No, he could express quite exactly where we are, where the patients are now, especially in Brabant and Limburg, how things are going and how much control there is. Much respect for that at the hospitals in Brabant, where they now give intensive care to the first larger groups of corona patients. So I don't think it's fair to say they have no idea. It is true, and I share that concern with Mr Baudet, that in such a pandemic, in such a virus outbreak with exponential growth, it is incredibly difficult to determine whether you are taking your measures on time, because a measure you are taking now has only eight, nine or ten days of effect. I think we all feel that. That puts enormous pressure on the people responsible for the decisions, on the experts and on us as Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u163	But Rutte has underestimated it at every stage of the development of the crisis so far. In every phase, every step, every time. It's only been a day or eight since he said, "Oh, don't shake your hands, it's all gonna be okay." It's a total understatement all the time. In this morning's discussion, we did not see one single calculation, not one sum like: boys, based on what we now see of increased contamination, we expect to be there in three days with the intensivecare occupation and that we will be there in six days with the intensivecare occupation. And there's something else: all the energy from the hospitals, at least the free space, is now going to the corona patients. But I spoke to a number of specialists yesterday. They say open heart surgery is delayed and cancer surgery is postponed. Let's say some people are about to come in because of traffic accidents. With this measure of 130 km/h to 100 km/h, we expect traffic to become more restless. There will be more than less traffic control. So you get more accidents and therefore more people in intensive care. So it's not sustainable. It can't be sustained in the long term. You can make the maximum capacity of intensive care available for corona, but not three, four, five weeks in a row. Acknowledging, therefore, that we have no control over what we are doing now and that it is much better to be sure now, even for a week and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u164	Mr President, I am also trying to go back to my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u165	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u166	I can see for sure that the cabinet has reacted late on some points or communicated awkwardly. I find it too easy to say now that that is reproachable, because it is an improbable, unprecedented... in ugly English... crisis, of which I wonder how much better you can prepare yourself for it. But Mr Baudet, I and everyone in this Chamber have the task of ensuring that they do as well as possible. We also have to say it when mistakes are made. Then the point of underestimation. Look, I don't doubt the intensity and integrity with which these people are trying to control this crisis. Last week I disagreed with the conclusion about the schools. You can, but I don't want to participate in the suggestion that they don't take it all seriously or mind. I don't believe that. In this sense, I have the confidence that I have in the people in front of us today, including those who have that role in trade union K. That doesn't mean they can't make mistakes. We are also here to say: is it on time, are you well prepared, couldn't it have been better? That brings me to the question: are we doing enough now? The question I would like to ask is: what are the criteria on the basis of which the cabinet will continue to enforce that social distance? I want out of the discussion about a lockdown or not. The question is really: what are the differences between France, Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany? But I do want to know whether those criteria are there and whether they are prepared. Are the websites ready? Do the enforcement services know how to enforce that social distance further, if necessary? Two. If we want to protect our weakest better, there is much more to it than has been done so far. Are there any plans to better protect the people in the nursing homes and the nursing homes? What instructions are there to better protect the elderly? How can people with sick or weaker family members better protect themselves? In this context, I would like to ask: why are there no protective equipment for the people in the neighbourhood care? They actually have to deal with people who are vulnerable to the virus. You hear stories about people working with improvised masks. In that context, I have a question. This is in line with Mr Hijink's legitimate question as to whether you should not be able to make progress. Shouldn't you be able to expropriate if it's a matter of life and death and there are other tools available to protect our workers and which are necessary to prevent the spread of the virus? In that context, I would also like to ask for much clearer communication at a practical level. Everyone is of good will. It's impressive how they improvise. Compliments also on education for how quickly home-school education was started for my children would have allowed it to be somewhat slower, I say. That's very good, but there's also clear communication about the things we can control and what you have a view about. So we like to hear an instruction about what is and is not the intention to play outside. We would like to hear a clear instruction on how to protect each other as much as possible. I see Mr Baudet. He's standing there like some kind of muppet at the interrupt microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u167	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u168	"Political muppet, this and that, your great hero Johnson." Those are all of those non-material things. This whole answer was a huge story, too, while I was just very simple to Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u169	It wasn't an answer. I think it was Mr Asscher's contribution, otherwise he will have extra minutes, and we do not want that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u170	No, but I have a very simple question. I did not hear it, but did you hear a sum this morning in the vein of 'we expect so many cases to be added in the next few days and this is the capacity of intensive care; if it comes up, then the measures appear to have been insufficient'? Did you hear any of that this morning?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u171	Yes, and so were you, because you were there. The Chairman of the Intensivists...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u172	So it's not. No, it's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u173	It was a simple question with indeed a simple answer. The President of the Intensivists said a question from Mr Baudet: yes, with this capacity you can help up to 40,000 corona patients in the Netherlands, we think that is enough and if not, we have further plans to expand. That remains exciting, I share that concern, but do not say here that there are no numbers and no sums, because there are. We heard it together this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u174	No, because then you didn't understand. After he said that, I asked how we measure the 40,000. Then he said: you're absolutely right, we can't measure that. So we're assuming a theoretical model. Then, of course, the question underneath is what we can see, namely the number of patients actually entering these hospitals each day. We can see that. We can't measure that 40,000, because we don't have enough test results for that. So you are now going to rely on a theoretical number, but an actual number to be measured and its forecasts are not given. It has not been said: in three days we have to have an x-number in intensive care and if it is up there, then our measures do not seem to have worked. That's just not said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u175	Then it's obvious. And now your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u176	You'd have to admit that, wouldn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u177	Just now Mr Baudet asked me if there was a sum. Yeah, there was. That's what I've been repeating. Now he says: but it's hard to measure how many patients there are in total. That's true. This was acknowledged not only by Mr Gommers but also by Mr Van Dissel, who also indicated that we are therefore steering at a number of measurement points. Firstly, the number of hospitalizations. Secondly, the sampling that comes back from the people who are being tested. Thirdly, the network of GP posts and GPs, which says something about the further spread to the Dutch population. Together with these three things, the experts will have to make an assessment based on how the care capacity relates to the development of the epidemic. It is then up to the Cabinet to take measures to prevent this spread as much as possible. Of this, I asked the cabinet what the criteria are for forcing this social divide more, what options are there for it and whether the Netherlands has been prepared for it. 'Cause saying it's one thing but doing it's a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u178	Last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u179	This is all intended, but nothing has been said about it: if we are in three, five or seven days in number x, then that is too much and then the measures appear to have been insufficient. So they're all intentions: we're gonna do our best, we're gonna keep monitoring it. That kind of story all, but not of: boys, we now assume this development with those numbers and when we get up there on that date, then we have to scale up because... There's never any mention of that. You can just recognize that, can't you? Why does it have to be sought every time in intentions and can we not talk about results, in the sense of: we expect this to be the result and if it is not, then we turn out to have made a wrong assessment? That's possible, isn't it? Isn't that what happens in every company, every business model? Then you say: this is what we expect, this is what we can handle, and if we get up there by that date, then we were wrong. And they didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u180	Mr Baudet asked me first to prove whether there was a sum. That's what I did next. Then he asked me to state that no measurements were made. I've shown you how people try to measure. And now he says, they're just intentions. We were at the same briefing. I heard something else. What I've heard from the specialists we all appoint for this is that based on what they know now, they're assuming that they'll get through with this capacity in the next week, because they can expand by 500. But, said the President of the Intensivists, it is essential that work is now being done on more ventilation equipment and that there will be protective equipment; there will be talk about it but they do not yet appear in the hospitals and in the general practitioners and nurses. It is essential that plans are made to expand further if necessary. No, there's definitely no exact science. That is one of the reasons why this is a creepy virus, why it is also a scary period and even a crisis, and why I ask the Cabinet to explain what scaling-up options are still available, when they are being deployed and whether we are prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u181	The technical briefing can also be viewed on Debate Miss.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u182	I highly recommend it, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. I'm on the economy. I would like to express my support for the package as it stands, but I would like to draw attention to the expression that was actually underneath it. The cabinet says that we are not leaving anyone behind and that it is a special time that calls for other measures. This implies, perhaps not today, but soon: take care of the call forces, the people with a zero-hour contract, the flexers who are being fired. It cannot be that we will, rightly, be saving the self-employed, but that the people with an uncertain contract of employment will be fishing behind the net. I do not agree with those who say 'let the big sectors fall down, let the KLM fall down', with those who rejoice in bankruptcy. I think that is extremely wrong. Tens of thousands of Dutch families, which are part of our society, work there. They have also not chosen what is happening now and are committed to bringing back Dutch people safely. If the cabinet does not want to leave anyone behind, for the sake of short, I would like to join with the SP's questions on this matter. I expect from this cabinet a plan for those who are particularly vulnerable: the homeless, the people who depend on the food bank, the people who find it difficult to find their way in our society and do not understand what is coming to them. Finally, Mr President. How do we proceed now? It is good to think about a Netherlands after corona. First, the crisis must be controlled, we must ensure that we protect people as much as possible and keep them safe and healthy, and that we keep people at work. After that, we also need to think about what we can change, what we can learn, how we can better protect ourselves. A few things about that. One: science is very worthy of the investment; support them. Two concerns the way in which we ourselves proceed as people and the contribution we can make ourselves. One of the advices that I found instructive for that is: act like you know you're carrying the virus, because we don't just have to have it from forced social distance. What you then do to prevent other people from getting infected helps to prevent spread. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u183	Mr Asscher said that he is not on the line of people who say: let the KLM go bankrupt. I don't think anyone in the Chamber said or advocated that. I saw the Labour Party's proposal that I thought was a good suggestion that, if we rebuild the economy, we should primarily invest in the sustainable future that we need. Does the Labour Party at least agree with the Animal Party that Schiphol was at the borders of the sustainable? If you think about how we should proceed, you should certainly help those who lose their jobs there, but you should also see how that fits in with that sustainable economy of the future. Does the PvdA agree with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u184	It is true that Mrs Ouwehand did not say that, but I heard a party ideologist from the Animal Party say: let it go bankrupt. I found that rather heartless at this time. But I'm glad she doesn't share that view. That's actually what I meant by thinking about the Netherlands after corona. I think that from the companies we are helping now, you can ask for something to be done in return, in the form of people, to provide security. Not that addiction to flex work again; no, that security is important. As I said, the appreciation we are now expressing for the public sector should be expressed in more than one applause. We are certainly also asking for changes in companies' sustainability. It's not just arms on each other and waiting. No, we are now making a huge investment as a society to keep the Netherlands on its feet, to keep those companies on their feet. I would also like to express the hope and direction of the cabinet that it will be thought about asking for something back from the same companies later on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u185	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u186	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is in a crisis, perhaps the biggest crisis since the Second World War. So now is the time to come together as a country and show solidarity with each other. Solidar with all people suffering from the coronavirus: the vulnerable groups, the people who are sick and everyone who is worried about family or friends. We are also in solidarity with our fantastic doctors and healthcare staff, who are doing everything they can to save as many people as possible. And we are united with all the other essential professions, the value of which we are all the clearer at these times, with all the people who keep our society running while millions of Dutch people are forced to sit at home. Meanwhile, we also see what is happening here in The Hague. This is no time for party politics or scoring points, for easy opposition. It is a time to put the country's importance first and try to save as many lives as possible. Let me start with what I like about the package of measures presented by the cabinet. I welcome the measures they have taken to provide as much financial assistance as possible to hardworking Dutch people who are now in uncertainty. However, we would like to know from the Cabinet how it is going to ensure that SMEs andzzp'ers can make use of these facilities on time. We absolutely must prevent the problems they face from becoming untenable before it is their turn to get support. We need to make sure there's no hole. But apart from our praise for a number of economic measures, we also have serious concerns about the government's strategy to contain the virus. This concerns the concept of group immunity. In his speech last Monday, Rutte said: "The reality is that a large part of the Dutch population will be infected with the virus in the near future. That's what experts tell us." And then he said that we could build up a vaccine-controlled group immunity. The experts Rutte refers to are the people of RIVM. He even explicitly mentioned Jaap van Dissel, director of RIVM. He said Monday night at Nieuwsuur, right after Rutte's statement, which he called "excellent": "the thought behind this policy is that it is better if more people get the virus. We just need to make sure that the most vulnerable people don't get it. We want the virus to circulate among people who are not really affected by it." This approach is extremely risky and extremely exceptional in the international context. We spoke to medical experts and, on the basis of this analysis, made an analysis showing that Rutte's plan would lead to tens of thousands of deaths. The RIVM itself and international experts are also responsible for tens of thousands of deaths. The expected result, namely group immunity, is highly questionable and based on very questionable assumptions, which are also lied to by certain observations, such as a woman in Japan who has already been infected a second time. After fierce criticism at home and abroad, including from the World Health Organisation, RIVM now seems to be backing down. RIVM boss Van Dissel said this morning that achieving group immunity without vaccines is not pursued. Can the Minister clarify? Is group immunity the cabinet's commitment or not? And if people have changed their minds since Monday, just say so. Just admit it! I also call on the Cabinet not only to rely on the advice of the RIVM, which has been wrong several times in recent months, but also to listen to international experts from the World Health Organisation, who actually have experience with a pandemic. They are very critical of the approach now chosen by the cabinet. They warn that we absolutely must not continue with current policies, because this will lead to a total overload of the healthcare system. According to our own calculations, this weekend even the absolute maximum availability of beds in intensive care will be in sight. I call on the Cabinet to acknowledge that Rutte's plan to go first for group immunity pending the development of a vaccine was a mistake and instead to isolate the virus to the maximum, to prevent people from getting infected. You have to think ahead. It's like shooting clay pigeons. When a clay pigeon makes a certain orbit, you should not aim for that clay pigeon but you should try to understand what the orbit of that clay pigeon is going to be and aim for it. You have to think ahead. Following our neighbouring countries, it is therefore necessary to establish a lockdown in the Netherlands and to close the borders. If that doesn't happen, we're mopping with the tap open. In addition, it is unfortunately inevitable at this advanced stage of dissemination to introduce other lockdown measures as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u187	Madam President, I'm not going to touch the interrupt microphone button. I got a digital tap on my fingers because we're touching this, so I'm gonna do it on the foot pedal. I thought it was a good opening to say that we should not now be party politics, but should put the country's interest first. Thank you for that. Thank you for the words of appreciation for the economic package before us. Then we'll deal with the pandemic. Here again the word "fault" sounds and the word "good." Isn't it much better to talk about greater and less risk? It's a risk assessment, isn't it? Now, if we look at Asia, where a lockdown has taken place, we see again a peak in the number of infections. There are also risks in the approach. The same interruption I have told Mr Wilders, I would also like to say to Mr Baudet: is it not much better to talk about risk rather than about right and wrong? Because we know so little.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u188	What peak do you mean? In what countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u189	There is a new peak, for example in China. Taiwan is also mentioned, and South Korea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u190	I don't know what you mean, because in Wuhan one new infection was reported yesterday and one was reported the day before yesterday. So that's definitely not a peak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u191	It's messages that went out today; just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u192	Then you should come up with precise figures, because what we are seeing now is precisely that it has come under very successful control in Singapore, where zero deaths have occurred, in Taiwan and in Hong Kong. So, in Wuhan, one of them came in and one of them yesterday. So that number is very low. There is therefore no question of a new peak; certainly not. No, it was successfully put under control there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u193	Again, it's messages coming in now. They're about China, they're about South Korea and they're about Taiwan. Taiwan has been mentioned by Mr Krol as a successful country. Also there you see new peaks and new infections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u194	Can you give us some absolute numbers? What kind of spike do you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u195	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u196	Then perhaps you should prepare a little more precisely for such an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u197	No, I'm getting ready. You'll need to read those newspaper reports, like in The Financial Daily. The point I want to make is that it's a risk assessment. It's not about right or wrong. You have no plans for combating this pandemic. We have to make assessments. You have the right to ask critical questions. It is good to ask those critical questions, but there is no good and there is no mistake. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u198	Well, there is a "good," namely saving as many lives as possible and preventing half society from getting infected, which is the case in the group immunity scenario that was advocated on Monday. That scenario is wrong. It is good to save people's lives and it is wrong to waste lives unnecessarily. We can easily agree on that, can't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u199	We all agree that saving people's lives is our goal. That's what we all want. We have to assume each other's good intentions. We all want to protect vulnerable people and to be able to overcome this in the end. But we've never had this going on before. This virus is 12 weeks old. We don't know a lot, so we need to try to do the best we can to our best knowledge. Advice shall be given. Sometimes conflicting advice. You can ask questions about that. But the approach adopted by the Netherlands on the basis of RIVM recommendations is not "fault." There are risks to it; absolutely. But they are also at a lockdown; see the increase in the number of infections now in Asian countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u200	There is no increase in the number of infections in Asian countries. Some new infections may have been detected. But the curve is infinitely flatter than in countries like Italy and so on. When I asked him in the debate with Minister Bruins last week what he thought of the successful Singapore scenario, he indicated that he did not know that scenario at all and that he had not considered Singapore's scenario at all. He didn't even know there was a successful approach. You want to pull it out of the morale. I'm fine with using words other than right and wrong. But I also think it is the task of politics to look very closely at policy and to choose the better policy option over the less good policy option. In this case, we can see that the cabinet structurally chooses the less good policy option. You don't want to call that "fault"; then we call it different. It would be a lot better, let us agree on that if we had acted much earlier and had a minister who could tell us in such a way what happened in Singapore and so on. He didn't know last week. Do you remember? He didn't know. He had no idea. He said, "I'd rather look at Italy." Well, if there's one country you shouldn't be looking at, it's Italy. If we now learn from what we have always done wrong or wrong in the past, we do not underestimate the virus now. What you need to do as soon as possible is to know what's going on. Well, in the absence of sufficient test material, you must now have maximum control. Hence our plea for a lockdown. Moreover, according to all forecasts, the maximum capacity of intensive care will be reached this weekend.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u201	The demand for intensive care and its capacity is a good demand. We're gonna have to ask him. Are we prepared for much larger numbers? My point is, you don't have a playbook. You don't know. RIVM identifies the risk of a total lockdown: you can now flatten the curve and keep the number of new infections low, but sooner or later a new outbreak will occur. That's what we're seeing now. You're referring to a minister who wasn't keen on what Singapore did. You do not now have a clear picture of what is happening in Asia, and that is a new peak in the number of infections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u202	I'm sorry, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u203	You will have the floor after Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u204	You often interrupt people. It's good to get each other to speak. My point is: this is exactly what RIVM warns of. You can say that you still think it is a better option to go for that lockdown, because you think the risk is lower than in the cabinet's approach. You can say that again. Choosing the best option is indeed a moral choice. I agree with you, but questioning intentions, assuming that the cabinet deliberately makes wrong choices or, as you say, wrong ones, I find that really below the mark.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u205	Well, three things. First of all, I don't think anyone's deliberately making mistakes. Each human being, according to his or her own moral system, has the best interests of humanity. Mao Zedong also had the best intentions, so to speak. You can do the most horrible things with the best intentions. You can do the best things with the best intentions. Every man always has the best intentions. That's why it's not so interesting to talk about intentions. You just have to look at the results, you just have to look at the consequences of policies. I don't judge anyone by intentions, I believe these people here with the best will in the world are watching their phones. That's all at their service. I am just looking at what they are proposing in concrete terms, and I see from what we know about one the spread of the virus and two the capacity of our health care, that this is most likely not enough and that we will have to come up with more stringent measures in the shortest possible time. And you'd better take it right away, because then the result is less big.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u206	It seemed to go just as well, it was about good intentions, but then suddenly a comparison came up with Mao. Yeah, that's too bad...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u207	I'm not comparing anyone to Mao, I'm just saying...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u208	Madam President, I'm interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u209	Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u210	This is very annoying. What matters is that we have uncertainty. Mr Baudet also has uncertainty. It would please him if he would show that a little more and look at not only the intentions, but also the choices with a little more goodwill. Then you can still disagree. I don't have a problem with that. No one here can claim to have the recipe and be sure it's gonna be okay. But it would be a credit to Mr Baudet if he were to take a stand and take into account that perhaps the RIVM is right and that he would allow the warning they are now giving for the approach of Mr Baudet, the total lockdown, to act on his own and continue the debate with that battle for the arm.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u211	So that's what we talked about this morning. The point is that, as Van Dissel also admitted, these three models measure with two sizes. In the scenario we now have, Van Dissel assumes that there will be a vaccine. That's what he says. As long as that vaccine isn't there, he says there's no group immunity. So that's different from what Rutte said on Monday. That's what he's saying now. So they contradict each other; it is important to realize that for a moment. So there's no group immunity as long as there's no vaccine. That's what they're saying now. On Monday they said there is group immunity as long as there is no vaccine. So that's really a 180-degree turn, but okay. So now the RIVM's theorem is that there will be no group immunity until there is a vaccine. So as long as there's no group immunity, there's always the possibility that it'll blow up again. In that the scenario is different from what we're doing now and that of lockdown doesn't differ from each other, not at all, zero. Only Van Dissel does a trick. In the curve he made in the scenario he advocated, he said: then I assume there is a vaccine. But apparently that didn't apply to the revival in the lockdown scenario. So we're just really being measured with two sizes here. We're getting smoke in our eyes here. It's very important to realize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u212	The answers are becoming increasingly inimitable, but let me put a few simple questions to Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u213	I'd like to explain. I'd like to be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u214	Is it true that in every scenario you eventually need a vaccine to control the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u215	No, because you can also let the virus die from total isolation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u216	That is exactly the point that Mr Segers just made: it does not seem to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u217	It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u218	In China, Singapore and South Korea, they chose that complete lockdown. That is where the measures are now being relaxed, and what do we see today? Immediately an increase in the number of infections. The number of new infections in Singapore is even the highest in one day since the outbreak of the corona crisis. Singapore now also recognises that at the end of a lockdown you always have the risk of the virus re-emerging, as the RIVM explained very clearly today. Does Mr Baudet recognise that even with a complete lockdown, you can't rule out the possibility that the virus will come back and a lot of people will get infected?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u219	Just two things. Firstly, Singapore technically did not do a lockdown, but opted for a so-called track-and-trace approach. You could do that on a possible lockdown in our country. That is a technical distinction which I think is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u220	I'm glad you're nuanced...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u221	I was just taught so interestingly that I couldn't talk through others. I've learned something about that. So I'm gonna go finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u222	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u223	The second is that there is a very important difference between the risk that there might be new infections, and the question you asked, I thought there might be another reason why it is no longer spreading. That is the case when it dies out; I think we can agree on that in a general sense. Either immunity arises, whether or not it is a vaccine, or the virus no longer exists, or the virus continues to survive. There are three possibilities. That doesn't have to be a discussion for me. The third point is the capacity of health care. Let that be the jumping point in the Netherlands. We're gonna run into that. A difference with Singapore, for example, is that they have anticipated much more there for a wide outbreak, for example because they have much more test capacity available. One of our arguments to argue for a lockdown now is that we buy time with it. So we buy time to expand the capacity of intensive care, to build test capacity and to do all kinds of other things, including geographically checking where it is. Just the figure of how many people are infected at what point doesn't say everything about the danger. And what does it turn out to be? We have always said: we are prepared, we are prepared. But we weren't prepared.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u224	Two relevant points from Mr Baudet's reply. One is: he said there's no need for a vaccine at a complete lockdown. Two, we're gonna kill the virus. What guarantee can Mr Baudet give to people in the Netherlands that the virus will die out in his approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u225	I didn't say that. I was asked whether, in general terms, there is another reason why a virus could not exist anymore other than that there is a vaccine. Then I said, "Well, for example, if it dies out." In my view, that is a fact of public awareness. I don't see why this is an issue at all. There are diseases that are not so much a vaccine against, but which are extinct. They exist. I don't know which viruses they are right now, but they exist. There are diseases that are still dangerous, but they are extinct. They only exist in laboratories.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u226	Mr Baudet has now spoken a few times about theories and models.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u227	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u228	The point now is that Mr Baudet is advocating a total lockdown here and says that he does not need a vaccine and the virus dies out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u229	I'm not saying that. No, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u230	That's also a theory...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u231	But I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u232	That's a theory, too. That's also a model. Mr Baudet has no guarantee that his approach would work. That is why I appeal to him once again: question the cabinet critically, but do not pretend that we all have the truth here. We will have to look from day to day at how best to combat this virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u233	It's a shame, isn't it, that it's always that way to misquote someone's game and then hope you get away with it. I would really hope that there will come a time when we will not be doing politics in this house that way anymore. I would very much like to have a constructive and substantive debate across opposition coalition lines. That is precisely why I believe it is our duty to look at policy as critically as possible. Mr Jetten says that we have to look from day to day. So that's exactly the politics I'm fighting. Because the point is that if you look at what's happening today, you're about a week behind. Of the measures we are taking now, we will only be able to see in a week's time what effect they have. So exactly that day-to-day approach makes us chase the facts every time. That is precisely why I am in favour of having maximum social distance now, so a lockdown, maximum control over the situation. I told you, you have to control the boundaries. Only goods enter the country, not persons. You shouldn't have people on the street. You don't need people in work situations. If you do that for a short time, you know where we stand. Then you have control of the situation. Then you have a zero exit point, a zero measurement or a near zero measurement. In the meantime, you buy time to buy maximum tests, to set up beds, to free medical staff, to get breathing equipment to the country, to arrange other things, to deploy maximum, of course also on vaccination studies and to carry out tests and tests as far as possible. You also know that buying time gives you a better chance of getting better. We know that respiratory diseases decrease as it gets warmer, as the sun appears more often in this country. That's a good thing. Those are all factors that weigh in. Then, once that short period of lockdown has been and you have a zero measurement, a check, you're gonna open controlled sectors. If you notice that there is an immediate recovery in certain sectors or parts of the country, you can immediately put your money back on it. In short, this is the package of proposals we are making. We believe that this is really necessary to bring this crisis under control. We fear that, if we continue along the way of the cabinet now, we will see in a few days' time that the measures need to be tightened up, as we saw with the schools, which did not close at first and then close. As we saw before, when people said that only no shaking of hands was enough. And even when I asked for an urgent debate on this on 28 January, it was said that there was no need and that they were prepared. Let us now finally learn the lessons of this mistake that we are making to underestimate it. Take maximum measures now, take control and acknowledge that striving for group immunity pending a vaccine, as Rutte said in his speech on Monday, is the wrong strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u234	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u235	Mr. Chairman. As I said last week, it is important that we keep our heads down and take decisions on the basis of facts, smart decisions that put public health at the top of the list and that our economy be as low as possible. So we should not make decisions in panic but on the basis of advice from specialists, doctors, virologists but also mathematicians and economists. On the basis of these opinions, I trust that the cabinet will take the appropriate proportionate decisions. I do have a suggestion. Perhaps it is a good thing that next time we have this debate with one ruler. After all, it is a crisis and I can imagine that four of the five leaders have something better to do. Mr. Chairman. Information is important. It's crucial to know who's infected. Then why isn't there a large-scale test? In Taiwan and Hong Kong, tests and isolation have produced very good results. Then why not copy these successes from these countries? In particular, the next potential action, i.e. the isolation of the elderly and the vulnerable, seems inevitable, so that we can offer everyone who needs it a bed in intensive care. I would like to hear from the Minister when he expects this decision to be taken. There is also uncertainty about the number of beds in intensive care. When 1% of Dutch people end up in intensive care, 170,000 people end up in intensive care. With a maximum of 2,000 beds we have just heard that in the technical briefing... seems an impossible task, even if you spread this somewhat over time. How's the Minister handling this? Even in the graph shown during the technical briefing, the peak was above the critical limit. Mr. Chairman. Then the economy. I think that the emergency package presented for the economic consequences is a good start to help entrepreneurs in this crisis. Compliments for the size and compliments for the speed. SMEs and allzzp'ers are hard hit by the corona crisis. After the previous crisis, many entrepreneurs have no reserves and are going through these corona measures. Zzp'ers lose their jobs massively. Then it is completely inappropriate to dismiss this as a risk for whichzzp'ers themselves would have chosen. This statement is not clumsy but misplaced. It would be appropriate if there were a genuine excuse for this. The measures I see coming are well-meant. As I just said, it's a good start. But there is too often bureaucracy. This also seems to be the case with the measures taken. The moment you see your company go bankrupt because of things beyond your control, it's hard to ask your accountant if he or she wants to make a statement that your liquidity problems are caused by the government measures around the coronavirus. My questions on this point are: can we keep the bureaucracy of the Tax Administration and other public institutions to a minimum? I call on you to also understand the municipalities and provinces of this. During yesterday's press conference several times the question was asked whether the emergency package could be maintained and for how long. Has the Minister prepared a detailed scenario for the follow-up to the corona crisis, namely the SME crisis, which will undoubtedly be followed by a monetary and banking crisis? Mr President, I'm almost done. Revaluation is now the key problem. Wouldn't it be a good idea to release all mortgages for the rest of the year, with the government giving banks a loan or a guarantee to cover this? It seems to me to be a cheap measure with an enormous positive effect. It's an out-of-the-boxidee maybe. I would like to hear the opinion of the cabinet on this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u236	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u237	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of 50PLUS, too, I would like to congratulate all the relatives of the victims and those who are currently ill. Our appreciation for all those employees in care and all other essential sectors. Let's be extra friendly with all those employees. I heard you very well, Madam President; we as a Chamber will meet as often as necessary. Democracy must continue. But perhaps it is a good idea to discuss care and economics in separate debates with each other and with the government. To all those who are looking now, to everyone, I ask: please stick to the directives, that is important. 50PLUS agrees with the many questions raised by other parties that have just been asked. We also received a lot of information this morning. In this debate, there are four main areas of concern. What is the desired situation in the care and nursing homes? What visit is allowed? Are there sufficient resources available? What's the policy if one of the residents has the corona virus? To what extent can you keep your distance in the new and old nursing homes? Then care for the vulnerable and our elderly who live at home. To what extent is the distribution and availability of protective equipment well regulated for employees in home care and care? Can the minister take more direction? Is there an emergency plan to take care of all these elderly people in the coming period? I am talking not only about health care, but also about practical matters: sufficient exercise, food and drink, caring for pets, combating loneliness. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, other ministries and public bodies should, if necessary, assist in this area. 50PLUS gets a lot of signals from carers. There is a lot of concern and uncertainty. Can the cabinet specifically address this important group in its response? This is particularly important now that regular care is overloaded. But how can you be cared for in compliance with the guidelines? What's wise? Can a caregiver take his or her children to nursing or school? The protective equipment. Isn't with a little creativity in the Netherlands much more possible in terms of production? Is nationalisation of some companies that make basic products an option for the cabinet if necessary? Is it wise or not to use protection for mouth, nose and eyes on the streets? There is still a lot of uncertainty about this. Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS is mostly positive about the cabinet's package of measures to provide income security. We welcome the commitment that what needs to be done will happen. 50PLUS believes that people should be able to contact the government via a single point of contact, i.e. that of work and income. I'd like a vision from the Minister. Schemes must be made available quickly and easily and can benefit by the end of this month. Can that be promised? People are in dire uncertainty. What is your message to the hairdresser, the catering entrepreneur, the baker and the shopkeeper who have to pay the fixed charges and the bills? What are they going to do in their government wallet at the end of the month? Finally, Madam President, a few more questions. Does this cabinet support medical experimental treatments such as the TB vaccine? Can the cabinet say anything about the period until April 6th? When will we know whether renewal is necessary? Do supermarkets stay open in our country, even if we go towards a lockdown? That might save a bunch of hoarders. We also hear that home delivery is becoming more and more difficult. So far, many older people have used volunteers. Now they're calling the supermarkets themselves, but they say we're not hiring new customers. Then cash. We read the message this afternoon that many supermarkets no longer want to accept cash. Can something be said about cash, coin or paper money: is it contagious or not? Can the cabinet encourage the media to create programmes that stimulate movement, provide information and also provide relaxation? Is communication for non-linguals and low-literate people in order? We see things go wrong there all the time. This morning there were a lot of people on the train who spoke a language other than Dutch and had absolutely no idea what we were doing. The same story I hear here about the Haagse Markt. Anyway, 50PLUS is impressed by the many initiatives in the country. I would like to thank everyone who takes these initiatives very much for that. Carry on with that. I await the answer of the cabinet, but above all I wish you much wisdom and strength.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u238	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u239	Thank you, Mr President. 50% information and 100% decisions; that's what Prime Minister Rutte said at his press conference a week ago. In society there are many questions about the measures taken, including in the care sector. Enough doctors, nurses and other support staff are crucial for the intensive care capacity for the treatment of people already infected. But care for all other people must also be maintained. Mr. Chairman. There are relatively many care workers infected. They will remain at home until they are free of complaints and may return to work after 24 or perhaps 72 hours, depending on which hospital or health care institution they work in, where they will return to work with the same vulnerable groups. RIVM and the GGD advise everyone in general to get back to work after 24 hours of being free of complaints. This while the WHO, the World Health Organisation, strongly recommends that corona patients who are free from complaints should not be in contact with the outside world. Even if they are complaints-free again, these people can still be contagious to others. RIVM does not seem to agree with the WHO and with a growing group of scientists who publish research results, even last week, and who draw the same conclusion, namely that people who are again complaints-free after infection, are not contagious for others for days to come. Mr. Chairman. This is a big problem. It is a major risk for both protecting vulnerable groups and preventing a peak in the number of infections, so that the care system is not overloaded. I ask the cabinet: why is the WTO recommendation not being followed? Why is there so unclear communication? Why is there no clear, safe directive, at least for the care staff? And is it possible to support the overloaded ic's with doctors and ic's nurses from areas where it is still very quiet? Can the Cabinet indicate whether it is possible to give the care staff, which we are now asking for, an extra bonus to show our great gratitude in this way too? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to join in the fine words of previous speakers, and I would like to encourage all the people in the Netherlands and wish the sick a great deal of strength and improvement. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u240	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u241	Madam President. We don't get to talk about it all over the Netherlands. In this room we've been working for three hours. The corona crisis keeps everyone intensely occupied. There's a virus out there that we don't have a handle on. There are new sick and people dying every day. Kids don't go to school anymore. A lot of people are out of work. Church services are severely restricted. I was touched that an old man I spoke to this week said: I didn't even experience this in the war. That also shows people's perceptions. Crisis time calls for action. We're seeing it all over the place these days. Many have today expressed their justified respect for all healthcare workers who are working day and night. That national applause was very nice. Mr. Chairman. The action that this means for politics is that the government is doing everything in its power to provide good protection for the care staff. What is the government doing in concrete terms to remedy the shortage of protective equipment and test capacity? What alternative treatments are there to prevent people from entering intensive care? How can CT scans be used earlier, for example, to identify the virus and thereby protect the care staff? The government came up with protective measures. Then with an economic emergency package. That's good. Also from society there are a lot of examples of looking after each other: babysitting, shopping, giving support. Just heartwarming. Churches also take many initiatives in many places in the country. I saw today that under the title "#not only" many ecclesiastical communities stick their hands out of their sleeves, but also reach out to each other. They bring together wishes and opportunities. Moreover, this initiative does not stand alone either. I'm glad you didn't. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister made it very clear this week: we need to learn how to handle the corona virus in the near future. A large part of the population will become ill. It is a serious reality that a lot of people die from the virus. I also have the following specific questions on this subject. How do we ensure that when the end of life approaches, people do not die in loneliness? Can family and mental caregivers always stand by them? Mr. Chairman. With all the science we're trying to involve in this, what we need to do now is eventually sail in fog. There are many uncertainties in which a course has to be chosen. I also found this morning's technical briefing useful and enlightening. It became clear that the objectives of the measures are: how can we protect vulnerable groups and how can we continue to provide care? How can we contribute to the lowest possible mortality rate? Indeed, it has already been extensively changed: that group immunity has given some confusion, some confusion. It is explained that it is not a purpose, but rather a consequence. Maybe just a simple control question. If you thought away the whole discussion of group immunity, would you come up with a different approach than is being followed now? I would like to hear the Prime Minister's reaction to that. Earlier we saw that the Outbreak Management Team always mentioned a number of measures at the end, saying: you can take them next. Now it was a blank page. What does that mean? What are the measures that can follow after this? I'm just gonna let the lockdown go. Actually, I think it's a very confusing term. I would prefer to hear it spoken in terms of concrete measures, which we can still see in the current situation of far-reaching measures. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to draw special attention to carers. Mr Krol has done the same. The effect of certain measures to protect vulnerable people is that, for example, elderly people with dementia are no longer taken into account in day care. But they'll be home. How do we make sure there's help for them, too? Would the cabinet like to consult with municipalities and healthcare providers on how carers can be better relieved? I made a call on Facebook for that, too. I get a lot of stories from carers who are in trouble. Mr. Chairman. It is good that there has been a package of support measures. As I said, it will probably be discussed in greater detail. May I mention a few more brief points in that regard? I also hear signals from glass and horticulture that seasonal work is stalled by the dense boundaries. They ask: where do we get people; what are the prospects for that? In the construction sector I hear that the municipalities also have a lockdown in the sense that you no longer get your building license after pfas and all the other misery. Is that necessary? What possibilities are there for that to continue? And a very practical demand from the supermarkets: can the amount to pay contactless not be increased from €25 to, for example, €100? Then we don't need everyone with their fingers on the device to enter their PIN code. That seems to me to be a very simple but helpful measure. So I'd like to hear a reaction to that. Finally, on the measures. How come weed is now easier to get in this country than eggs? Don't we have the wrong priorities? Madam President. A crisis time requires action. That's what I started. But a crisis shakes the foundations of what we stand upon in this country. Then it is always good to repent, to reflect. It is very nice that today it coincides with the Day of National Prayer. It calls on us to do so today in particular. Today many church bells will also ring, as I understand, to reflect on that. Just like last week's prayer day, it is in a long Dutch tradition to look up in times of need. May I finish what is to be found in our national anthem? I am not talking about the familiar "My shield and trust" but about another verse, which speaks of poor sheep in great need. Then comes the encouragement: "Your shepherd shall not sleep." At the same time, the compelling call sounds: "Until God wills you go, take his good word." That confidence and that call from our national anthem I would like to make sound like an apple here and in our society. I wish the Cabinet and all those responsible in this crisis full wisdom and blessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u242	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u243	Thank you, Madam President. However, a kind of afternoon closure, for the time being; we are waiting for the answers of the cabinet. Madam President. The corona crisis shows that we are very vulnerable people and that we are vulnerable as a society. She shows that we depend on people who provide good care. And she shows us what kind of dedicated people we have working in care. The crisis also sometimes reveals ugly aspects of ourselves when people start hoarding. And that both weed and toilet paper seem to be among the essentials, says something. But the crisis also shows a lot of good things, lots of beautiful things in society. People help each other. Mr Van der Staaij already referred to the initiative #not only. I will be asking a number of questions about this in a moment. But it is a wonderful initiative, which brings together people who want help and people who need help and shows that no one is on their own. Madam President. This crisis also shows how important it is to have a good government, skilled people. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his honest and impressive speech on Monday and the whole cabinet for this week's measures. They show good care and appropriate measures for pupils and teachers and for millions of workers and entrepreneurs who are worried about their income. As Mr Van der Staaij said, today is a day of prayer, with intercession for people in care, patients, health experts and the cabinet. I would also like to say to the cabinet: know that this way too there is intense sympathy with you and with everyone who stands behind you and now has an important task. Look out for each other. This is crucial in this period. It is important to take account of each other. I call the social distancing. But it is also important to look at each other and to look at the most vulnerable among us: the elderly, people who are less self-reliant, people who are ill at home. Clear communication is crucial, for example about the 100 people standard, about how it should be handled. Following on from Mr Asscher, I would like to mention a number of groups. I do not need to go into detail, but I would like to draw particular attention to a number of groups, calling on the cabinet to seek contact with their representatives. I am thinking, for example, of pgb budget holders, who sometimes really don't know where they stand. Disability care The Netherlands wrote us a letter. They say that disabled people really need extra advice and extra help. Get in touch with them, too. I'm also thinking of homeless people and refugees. So please also pay special attention to those kind of vulnerable groups. Madam President. As I said earlier, today's initiative # has not just been launched. But not only #not only, but also the Red Cross brings volunteers together, puts people in a position to help. My question to the cabinet is: bring these initiatives together and integrate them into one's own communication. So if, for example, food banks lack volunteers, speak to these kinds of platforms, where people are ready to help. #Not only does it have a phone number: 0800-1322. Call that in your own communication and make sure that those kinds of platforms, both those of the Red Cross and those of # don't just get the wind in the sails. 'Cause now it's about helping each other. Food banks do indeed lack volunteers. I would therefore ask the Minister for Social Affairs to look at this specifically and watch the alarm clock they have sounded. Think also of the food that is left over, of fishermen who have to go crazy and of restaurants that have food left over and would like to bring it to the food bank. Let's make that kind of thing possible. There are people who are in debt and there are people who are now being evicted from their homes. I got an app yesterday with a very poignant example of that. I find it really impossible for you to put people on the street at this time, literally, because they would have a rent deficit. It's happening. I would really like a commitment from the cabinet. Let's meet one thing at a time, which is that we're not putting anyone out on the street right now. For this family can only go to the mother-in-law, who herself is vulnerable and belongs to a risk group. I thought it was impossible when I read it. Let us make home education possible, even for people who, for example, do not have a laptop or iPad at home. Then make sure schools have the resources, and that they can go to school. So I'd also like to pay attention to that. Madam President. The control of the virus is an important objective. The Prime Minister has discussed this, as has the Minister for Medical Care. It's all about flatting the curve. That's the slogan. We have talked here about group immunity and many questions have been asked about it, but do I understand the cabinet correctly if I assume that control is now paramount, but that there are other scenarios that are conceivable if the situation changes? Then the importance of testing. The World Health Organisation points this out, and at the same time we do not have enough means to test it. Then how do we get good scientific knowledge of what is happening now? On this basis, well-founded decisions must be taken. So if testing is tricky now, how do we get the right information? I agree with all the questions that have been asked about resources. I am now looking at Mr Hijink, who has also talked about masks and other medicines that people need in healthcare. I would like to join with that and also with the questions about ic capacity. I would like to add one question. We do need the lead role of VWS to do that. So if things are gonna get really tight in Brabant while there's space left in the north, can VWS pick up that directional role? Then I have a number of very specific questions, Madam President. The first is about the approach for the Caribbean Netherlands. How is communication arranged there? I agree with Mr Jetten's question as to whether the Dutch can be retrieved abroad. I also agree with the question of whether everything is clear for final examination candidates and whether there is a solution for the payment of childcare costs. Madam President. I have one question about the economic aid package. It comes down to details in progress and to good communication with entrepreneurs. How can companies that are not related to lenders or that use a non-bank lender use the SMEB for liquidity immediately? Madam President. We are in a major crisis. When I see what our heroes do in healthcare, when I see how people help each other, and when I see what the cabinet is doing now, it gives me the confidence that we overcome this. On this Day of National Prayer, I also express the wish that God will help us in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u244	I thought I would respond to the conviction that Mr Segers apparently has that there would be a new peak of contamination in Singapore, China and South Korea, which would prove that far-reaching lockdown-like policies are not working. The reason he thinks there's that new peak is maybe this was in a headline. But that article was behind a paywall. It costs €1 for three months to subscribe to it; then you can see the whole article. It says: "Singapore 47 new cases, 33 of which have returned from vacation." And the peak was 331 a day, so that's definitely not a new revival or anything. People just come back from vacation, wear it somewhere else and then get quarantined. In the Netherlands, by the way, there were 346 new cases today. So that's more than the peak in Singapore. In China there were 13 new cases, while at the peak there were 14,000 in one day. 13! That's not a peak at all, Mr Segers. In South Korea there were 93 cases. Most of these are people who come back from vacation. The peak was 851 in one day. So there is no peak there either. Don't let the headlines inspire you. Simply subscribe to those international media you would like to quote, as you can read the entire article.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u245	That underlines what Mr Jetten just said in an interruption, namely that you also depend on a vaccine after a lockdown. So you're not immune, because there's no immunity built up against this virus. So you can quarantine everyone and keep everyone at home, and then there's still a moment when we need to get out and reconnect. We can indeed hope that there will be a vaccine, but that is exactly the same risk as the one that is being taken now. I am not pretending that there is a plan for this and that I have exactly the wisdom in rent. But what I was concerned about in the interruption and what I am concerned about now is the following. We always take risks. You have to see what the optimal choice is to take the least risk. I support the cabinet in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u246	Well, no. Mr Segers came up with a lame story based on a headline that said there would be a new peak in those countries. That just turns out to be pertinently incorrect. So you come into such a debate with the story that there is a new peak and that it all turns out to be wrong what Baudet says. You don't think it's right for Baudet to say that if we set a major lockdown, you'll have control over the infections. That is true, because the numbers were infinitely higher than they are now. There is indeed an infection here and there, but because they have it so well under control, they can put those people directly into quarantine. That doesn't overload the intensive care system. As a result, they have sufficient ventilation equipment and test equipment and so on. So that's because they had a lockdown period first. That's what the numbers show. So it's not true. You shouldn't be joking. There's no peak in those countries. Just admit that, too. That's also a Christian value. You based yourself on a tough headline, without reading the article. You wanted to score cheaply in this sensitive debate in which we should put the national interest first and in which we should not play political games or dot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u247	It's cheap scoring to say this. I don't want to score cheap at all. What I'm...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u248	Then why did you say there was such a spike? There's no peak!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u249	Madam President, this is the umpteenth time that Mr Baudet talks through everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u250	Mr. Baudet, you've made your point. Mr Segers, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u251	There's a peak. There's been new cases. That shows exactly that contamination can happen when people come back and come back into contact with each other. That's happening now. Exactly that what you indicate and what you think is the right approach is the government's approach, namely controlled that control virus, ensuring that ic capacity remains available and that the number remains manageable. We can't completely close it. We can't shut the country down. People are coming back. People will get infected. There will be new infections. But if you have enough ic-capacity and if you have enough care available, it is manageable. That is exactly the approach of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u252	One more time, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u253	Yeah, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u254	You said that there was a new peak in those countries, in Singapore, China and South Korea, and that that shows that that approach is totally ineffective. That's just not true. So you come to me with such an interruption, because you've seen some headline. You think you can score cheaply, but it just turns out it's not true. It is a very small number in those countries, which comes from people returning from vacation. They are immediately checked and quarantined. That's not a problem at all. There's no outbreak at all. There are no new infections at all. They're people who just come back from vacation with that virus and can be treated directly. So that is a completely different situation from the one you presented. So you have used this interruption in a very unfair and improper way and you have tried to frame the debate. I just wanted to make that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u255	You made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u256	It would please you if you'd just admit it. Then I forgive you, too, that is also a Christian value. Let's get over it, and then we'll talk about the content again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u257	Touchingly, only my point is that we may be much closer in practice. This isn't black and white. That was my point towards Mr Wilders, and that is my point towards you. There is another increase in the number of infections in Asia. That's what I told you. As for what you say about the approach taken by the cabinet: you cannot lock down a country, you will have to adjust policies every time. What the Prime Minister has said and what I repeat is that even a lockdown cannot be ruled out and that there may come a time when even what you are proposing is indeed the best or a better option than what we are doing now, but you will have to weigh it every day: what is the next step? My point was: don't make this black and white and look at what's happening in Asia where there's another rise and the lockdown doesn't stop you from doing that. Keep the openness to consider every day what is the best choice for the public health of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u258	Thank you, Mr Segers. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u259	Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister, I would like to say a few words to the people who sent e-mails to Members of Parliament, including me, about disinfectants in the Chamber. The room is cleaned every time and there are disinfectant bottles everywhere to disinfect the hands properly. That is what all Members of Parliament are doing, so I want to reassure everyone: we are sticking to that. The President-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u260	Mr. Chairman. I would like to speak a single introductory word, and I can assure you that I am the only one who will speak an introductory word. The other four will go straight to the questions. My introductory word will be very brief. The division of roles is that I will address myself to the various questions about social discrimination, lockdown, immunity, education and the international aspects. The Minister for Medical Care will address issues related to capacity, ic and, of course, personal protective equipment, protection of the elderly and communication. The Ministers for Economic Affairs, Finance and Social Affairs will then defend their parts of the package of measures, while the Minister for Economic Affairs will also address questions on food supply and the Minister for Social Affairs on questions on food banks. Those were some more specific questions. These issues were not directly included in the package presented yesterday, but questions were asked about them. Since they are there, because it falls into their portfolios, it is obvious to do so. Mr. Chairman. Last night at 8:00 p.m. It's just been memorized here. The Netherlands broke hands for people who have been standing in the front line for the last few weeks. These are the people in general practitioners, nursing homes, home care, hospitals, from cleaners to nurses, from doctors to all the assistants who work there, everyone. In fact, however, that is my feeling for all those other people who work in vital sectors, from those who work in the supermarkets to those who now care for the children of people who work in the vital sectors. All these people can feel supported by yesterday's applause. The Netherlands turns out to be super sammy when the need comes up. I thought it was one of the most beautiful pictures in the newspapers this morning: a group of nurses who were a bit uncomfortable to receive the applause. Then I thought: this is also the Netherlands. That people think, "Who are we? You're the heroes and that's why we're doing this for you. That's why I want you to give it up. We will not forget you." By the way, you can see that solidarity much wider. You'll see it back with the people who do it. I myself received a very sweet letter from a 11-year-old girl who offered to babysit younger children with her peers, so that their parents could get to work. I see it in all those reports about people wanting to help with the food banks. A few older people often work at the food banks. They are now a little more concerned about doing that work, and a lot of young people are now saying: let's go help the food banks. You can see it in people who want to do groceries for older people who don't want to go to the grocery store anymore. There are Facebook groups where people can ask for help or offer help. You see catering stores donating food. There are LinkedIn pages where former nurses report in and say they want to get started. There are churches and mosques that do to "coronacare," as a mosque in Hoofddorp called it. The list of examples grows by the day. I think this helps to combat the virus as a society. I also believe that it helps to deal with the uncertainty and with the fact that we do not have all the answers yet and to get stronger out of this as a society. I would like to add that all social discrimination measures only work if we stick to them. That goes for all these things: the 1.5 meters away, no shaking hands, sneeze in the sleeve, use a paper handkerchief, wash hands very often. But it also applies to all these other things, such as not necessarily bringing all kinds of groups together, even though it may still be allowed to a certain extent. You shouldn't do that if it's not necessary; really only if it's strictly necessary. I'll speak in the Youth Journal this afternoon. Children then ask the question: can we still play outside? Yeah, that's okay in itself. But also to the children I will say: if you snot at all, stay at home! And when you play with your boyfriends, keep your distance, even if it's not funny. And if you're gaming on the couch, make sure there's plenty of room between you. So it's up to all of us to do it. Just a moment ago I spoke with Jaap van Dissel and the people of the ic's, also in preparation for the various questions that have been asked. They said, "Mark, please, bring that to your attention again." Take advantage of the fact that a lot of people are now looking at this debate to say that again. I'm asking all of you, too. Society seems to take the measures well, but their success is also very much linked to the fact that we all do so. Then, of course, there were questions about the approach. The approach is that we do everything we can to control the case as much as possible. That means you're indeed steering on the capacity of the care. It's leading. At the same time, you can take measures to ensure that we have people who are vulnerable, whom I have also spoken to in my TV talk on Monday, and the elderly, the people with vulnerable health, who I realize are extra anxious, offer extra protection. Bruno Bruins will go into more detail about what we are doing there. So those are the goals: that you protect that group, that you send to the ic-capacity. And the measures you take for social distancing are aimed at that. And yes, then it is conceivable that you will have to take additional measures over the next few hours, days, weeks. It's possible. If it turns out that those numbers are going to go further than the models predicted, you may need to take additional measures. At the moment, that is not the issue. If you take those extra measures, what can you think about? Van der Staaij asked for that. We saw this last week, of course, in the previous OMT opinion. Look, public transport has already fallen a lot. So things are happening on top of the measures we are taking. 'Cause we didn't assume that the O.V. occupation would fall so quickly. So that's where things are actually happening. You see some very big stores closing. This, of course, also has effects that come on top of the package that has been announced earlier. Yes, then there are conceivable measures, including... Mr. Chairman. I see someone's already on the Interrupt Microphone, but maybe I can explain that before I get to the questions? You can also think of measures more in the direction of measures such as France, Belgium or other countries, even closing society still further. But that will always be temporary. That will be temporary as a kind of boost on reducing the rise to ensure it, and then I'll come back to the main point that you don't overload the hospital capacity. Immunity is not a goal. It is a fact that as more people have been infected at some point, you gradually build up immunity as a society. It has been noted that Van Dissel says that you will eventually also need a vaccine. Yeah, that's very likely... that's what he just said to me on the phone again... because the chance that the Netherlands will ever touch that 50% or 60%... Yeah, that's so much; you'll be busy for years. So that's not gonna happen. But it does help, as an additional effect of what you do. It's just inevitable right now that people get infected, and that contributes to immunity. But it's really not enough to be able to do it without a vaccine. Yeah, unless it does go on for years and you, as a society, go very slowly there. And then there are uncertainties. They've been appointed, too. I would like to mention the question: what exactly is the situation with this immunity? Most likely you'll build it up. But how long will it take? They're gonna figure it all out. How does group immunity work in this case? We don't know exactly yet. But you can see in other virus outbreaks that group immunity is being built up. So those are really things you don't know 100% for sure about. But all those who say "it is not an end in itself" are right. The goal is to get you to control that ic capacity. Finally, on this point. Then I have a few other questions. Would you take more action than the experts think is necessary at the moment to ensure that that ic capacity doesn't flood? Again, you may need to take additional measures. Then perhaps Mr Baudet will say: you see! Well, I'll have to take that for my hood. But I have said that now, and I have said that before: you must always see whether you have to switch or switch off. These measures must, of course, be proportionate. They'll have to work. I point out what others have said. What we are doing is no different from the French, the Italians, the Spanish, the British and the Swedish. Everyone does the same thing. No one chooses to let the whole thing go down, with the risk of hundreds of thousands getting that disease at the same time and a lot of people dying because the care is not up to it. But there's actually no one right now who opts for a full lockdown for unlimited time, until a vaccine is found. Maybe China, but it depends on what they're gonna do there now. If France is talking about a lockdown, it is no different than what the Netherlands is doing: just take additional measures to achieve social distancing. At the moment, the Netherlands really has a very rigorous package with what we are doing now. You can see it on the street. I walked home the day before yesterday and I cycled home yesterday. Then you see how many security cafes and restaurants offer when they're open. If you walk down the street now or ride a bike at 10:00 in the evening, it's dead quiet. You don't see anyone. That's what you want, too, so that's good in itself. Well, you don't want to, but to fight this shit, you want it. Then you can also see how fast the Netherlands reacts and what effects that has. So we have really taken very rigorous measures. On top of that, you can see that society itself is taking additional rigorous measures. I just mentioned a few examples. So let's get to the heart of the debate: is immunity a goal or is it something that happens because you want to achieve another goal? It's the second. Two. "Lockdown" is a term in which everyone has their own images. A real lockdown is: everyone stays at home and also the work stops. You can only work at home, but you can't go back to the factories; they're all closing. Everyone stays at home and nobody moves anymore. You only go out with a note to shop once a week or get medicine. You're not allowed to speak to or meet anyone else on the way. Such a lockdown, in this extreme form, we are not seeing at the moment in Europe. Maybe in pockets in Spain and Italy, but not in France or Belgium. In France, people just go to work when they can't work at home. So that term "lockdown" has a lot of variants. You could say that the Netherlands now also has a partial lockdown with what we are doing now. But let's forget that term. You've got social-disturbance measures. That is what we are doing in Europe. There's a real formal lockdown that was that third scenario in my story on television Monday, if you'd say, guys, we're gonna lock the whole thing up until a vaccine is invented. Then you have to realize what that means to the economy. That's not what I mean to say as a VVD, so of "there he comes with his economy again." No, I simply mean: do you still have the ability as a country to ultimately earn the money to pay for the care, to distribute that vaccine and to do all the other things that are needed? After one or two years, of course, you come out of that crisis very badly impoverished. In fact, you've been thrown back into your economy for 10, 20, 30 years. Again, I am not saying that as a classic VVDer who wants to talk about the economy again. I do say that because you have to keep earning the money to finance the care and all the other things, such as the support packages that are now needed. I also think that it will not be accepted in society to say that we are going to lock up for one or two years, and you cannot leave the door anymore. I don't think that's gonna work. On Sunday I decided to give that speech and we started working on the first concepts of that speech. At that time I also said: if the Netherlands were to decide, where I outline those three scenarios, 'we want to close for one or two years', that would be a choice too. When I see the responses to the speech, I don't think that's the choice. But it could have been. It could have been said Monday at the end: Yes, Rutte, fine that you are choosing that scenario that is actually following the whole of Europe now, namely steering the ic capacity and taking measures to keep it manageable, but we really want to be completely locked up for a very long time. Then this is also a democracy. You also saw it in education last week. And then I'll stop, Mr. Chairman. The same question was asked. We have not decided on a different approach to education this weekend on the basis of scientific advice, but because it is a democracy. On the basis of the scientific advice, I maintain that education could remain open. We still think so, but society... We had the debate on Thursday. There was strong opposition to cabinet policy, even in political groups which are now in themselves more positive about the general approach. But GroenLinks, PvdA and others were very critical about keeping schools open. Then you also saw teachers who were very worried. On weekends, society was slowly voting with its own feet. Then I can stand there in such a crisis and say 'boys, I have the scientific evidence here; we keep the schools open', but then too, it is a democracy that makes such a decision. That could also be true if the country were to say: we want to close for two years. I don't think so. When you were in school, you saw it. I also answer that question. The scientific advice stands. You didn't have to. We are now using time in the coming weeks until April 6th in Brabant and partly in Utrecht to see if all the assumptions that lie under the models about children are correct and whether we can enrich them. We're looking into the possibility of involving the investigation from China further. The point is that we can get a weighted picture of how the risks in education go when the schools open up again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u261	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his answers so far. But what I don't think people will accept is that while the house is on fire, we're not going to put that house out to maximum. In other words, by not keeping people at home to the maximum, they become sick and eventually die. And I don't think that's what the Netherlands wants. It is good news in itself that you say that group immunity is not a goal, but it is Mr Van Dissel, your great advisor who has been brought in by yourself as an expert, who literally says that it is the intention that more people should come into contact with the virus or get it. I believe it was last Monday at Nieuwsuur that he said that, because he himself threw that theory of group immunity into the world. And then, of course, the end is lost. We do not want group immunity in that sense. It hasn't even been scientifically proven that it works at all, that immunity against this virus can be built up at all. If you continue not to limit people's movements to the maximum, then you experiment with those people. And the Prime Minister doesn't want that, but that's what's gonna happen. Nor is it the case that all countries do the same. I will not list the whole list, but a lot of countries are closing their borders or have indeed closed down much more on essential stores. People can't just go out there on the street unless it's to the pharmacy or someone who needs help or to the hospital or whatever. There's more you can do. I ask the Prime Minister: now make sure that people's movements are limited to the maximum, in all reasonableness, and more than now, so that fewer people are exposed to the virus, fewer people are infected, fewer people become ill and fewer people eventually die from it. Step away from the idea of Van Dissel and of you that the more people get infected, the more immunity we build up, even if that may not be the goal. That's from later on. We have a problem now that people are getting sick. Today there are more deaths than ever in the Netherlands, more infected people than I know how long ago. We need to stop that now and we need to make sure that people stay at home at the most.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u262	Those countries that take this kind of more far-reaching action do so because they say that it is based on the capacity of our hospitals that we see the numbers rising so that we have to take this kind of more far-reaching measures. It is not expected at the moment, but you cannot rule out the need to take additional measures in the Netherlands to ensure that your capacity, especially intensivecare capacity, remains adequate. You can also add that ic-capacity. Bruno Bruins is about to go into that. It's being worked terribly hard by the people who know all about it. You have two ways to make sure you keep it manageable, that you control it to the maximum. You can increase the ic capacity further and, at the same time, with your measures, ensure maximum control over distribution in view of that maximum hospital capacity. It is not the case that those countries take that measure as such. I will leave China aside for a moment, because it is complicated to assess exactly what the policy is there. But suppose that China would have the policy to go into lockdown in that province, it seems to be a classic, really complete lockdown until a vaccine has been found. If they let go of that lockdown, the virus, because it goes around the world like a wave, would also return to China and then there would be no immunity built up there. That's how it works. The test capacity of Bruins will enter into this soon. The test capacity of Bruins is not sufficient to test everyone. There's just too little testing capacity in the world. That too is a real fact. There are very few producers of these tests and there is currently too little test capacity. That's why that's no way out either. What you all hope, of course, is that there will be a vaccine as soon as possible or that there will be intermediate scientific developments that will allow you to work with perhaps more classic medicines that suddenly seem to work on this. Of course, you hope all that, but right now, you just don't. Then we have to be honest. Wilders says: I want to lock the Netherlands until there is a vaccine. Or he says, "I want the same thing as in France." But that's what we do. Then we agree. If he wants to lock up until there's a vaccine, he'll choose the third scenario from my speech on Monday. I don't think the Netherlands does. Or he says he wants a lockdown as in France, but then I say: the Dutch government is for that too, as soon as it is needed here. There's no need for that right now. If it is necessary because of the increase in numbers, we will have to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u263	My nugget really breaks. What the Prime Minister is saying is that he does not want to go further until the capacity in intensive care in the Netherlands is no longer able to cope.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u264	There's a camera falling down!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u265	Nothing serious. I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u266	Okay, Mr. President, I'll start over for the Prime Minister. So the Prime Minister says, "I'm not going to scale up until intensive care can't handle it anymore." In other words, extra people need to get sick first, extra people need to get so sick first that they are sedated in intensive care by ventilation, on their belly. I find that unacceptable. The criterion should not be to stop what you are doing now and continue when intensive care is full. You have to do that now! If you now, today, close the borders, if you now, today, make sure that people stay home more, it will make fewer people sick. It's much better if that intensive care doesn't get full than if you don't do anything until that intensive care gets full, or am I crazy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u267	Anyway, in intensive care, you need to ensure that there is sufficient capacity for emergency situations. But what all European countries, actually all the countries in the world, are doing is this. They look: what can the care take? If you do more than what the care can do, then you're actually working on "b" there we have to be honest about "b" something that's also a conceivable scenario, which is to say: we're closing the country down until there's a vaccine. But the consequences, including social ones, are enormous. I gave my speech this way on Monday because I, looking the Netherlands straight in the eye, wanted to present that choice. There's now that misunderstanding of group immunity. So that's not a goal. That is an effect of your policy but not a goal of the policy. But the choice is one between two possibilities. Do you look at what you can take care of, so that other care can go through as well as possible, or do you opt for the third scenario? Wilders seems to choose; that's how I understand him. That's the scenario where you say, no, I'm going way beyond what it takes. That's also a choice you can make. But then my question to Wilders would be: when will you stop doing that again? Then you can stop until that vaccine is there, because if you stop it earlier, the numbers of infections will start to increase immediately, because that virus goes around the world and the Netherlands is an open economy. We closed the borders of Europe yesterday. We keep internal borders as open as possible, but the European Union, the Schengen area and the UK closed the border yesterday. These are all measures. The Netherlands has said: don't travel abroad anymore, also because we have to get you back if things go wrong there, while we already have a very large group that we have to get back. So we always take that kind of action. But they fit in the package to make sure you keep it under maximum control. It's a choice between that model or go for a full lockdown anyway. That last part is actually what Wilders says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u268	The Netherlands is not a Unilever. We're not talking about a company line here, about peanut butter, or I know what else. That's not what we're talking about. It's not about words like "control" and "if it gets too much." No, it's about this, Mr. Prime Minister. You are no longer with Unilever, you are the Prime Minister of the Netherlands. People get sick every day and people die every day. I expect nothing less from you than to make sure that tomorrow fewer people become unnecessarily ill and not unnecessarily many people die. This requires that you do not leave the virus around and that you do not, because of a theory of RIVM, ensure that as many people as possible get that disease because it is good for that group immunity idea. You shouldn't do that. No country in Europe has said that we are closing Europe or our country for more than a year with our far-reaching measures. You can do that in a limited way. You could start doing that for several weeks or several months. You could make sure that the care is in order. Moreover, as specialists say, even on Dutch television, more is known about the virus. Then we'll know more about the treatment method. Then we have more data on how we can possibly fight it, even if there is no vaccine yet. But the most important thing is: people are dying now, people are getting sick now, and with the line you're putting in, you're not going to limit it to the maximum. I blame you for that. That's not how it should be. That's experimenting with people's lives, and you don't like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u269	The Netherlands is very much locked at the moment. Just look on the street, our restaurants, our cafes. The whole public life has stopped. Public transport has fallen by tens of percent; I saw a figure this morning that was very high, but I haven't been able to check it yet. So let me say it carefully: down by tens of percent. People work at home all the time. The traffic jams are gone. So the Netherlands is adapting massively at the moment, doing everything it can to ensure that as few people as possible are affected by this virus. At least you have one absolute condition: it must never lead to such pressure on health care that because of this virus you would no longer be able to provide people with the necessary care. This is the line that is actually followed throughout the world in Italy, in France, in Spain, in England, in Sweden, in Finland, in Germany, throughout Europe. Singapore has a unique situation that allowed them to test everyone: they actually have one entrance into the country. I can't really see China right now, but the rest of the world is just following, "just," it's not normal at all; it's a terrible situation... at least it doesn't follow the Dutch approach. We follow the same approach. In addition, you try to do everything you can to prevent unnecessary mortality. It's not about building group immunity, but by doing this, society is slowly becoming a little more resistant to this virus. But that is not a policy objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u270	Mr President, one last time and then, of course, colleagues can ask their questions. Last time. It is unacceptable, I believe, that you really do not ensure that people are protected from getting the virus to the maximum extent possible. That's like saying that at a dangerous crossroads in the Netherlands 1,000 people have to die before you get there with traffic lights. That's what you're doing now. You say: only when the intensive care capacity can no longer cope, when so many people are sick, intubated for their lives fighting in intensive care, will I take measures. That's like 1,000 people died at that crossroads. You shouldn't do that! You need to put those traffic lights down right now, because we know that that's a dangerous crossroads and that people are going to die. So you have to make sure that the ic isn't even overloaded. You are doing so by doing even more than you are doing now, because I am not saying that you are doing nothing to restrict people's movements. If you do not do so, you will be irresponsible and unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u271	Neither Geert Wilders, nor Mark Rutte, nor anyone in this Chamber has wanted this situation. We feel the same way. It's terrible that this is happening to the world right now. It is a crisis of unprecedented magnitude with a huge impact on the lives of many people, on their security of existence and so on. Then you have to deal with that crisis. You have to be honest about that, too. In fact, this debate is the debate between two. You can indeed choose... That is an option, but Geert Wilders must also be honest; then you cannot limit that to a few weeks. There's no point in a few weeks... if it weren't necessary right now. Maybe if it turns out the numbers are too high. Then you have to take further measures, perhaps farther, even though it is quite difficult to think about what is farther. But there are still things to think about. You could also close the other shops: the non-food shops, the non-essential shops. Then you're gonna go one step further. But you can already see things in society itself, that the very large department stores, such as IKEA and De Bijenkorf, are already closing themselves. You could shut down public transport, but that obviously has consequences for the opportunities for people in care to go to work, for example. So I think it's wise what's happening there right now. I cannot rule out anything, but at the moment the movement seems wise to allow public transport to enter like a harmonica and ensure that the essential functions can continue to be fulfilled by the people who depend on public transport. At the moment, in supermarkets, the trend is that older people can go shopping at separate times, so they don't have to have the fear that they're confronted with younger people who might be carrying the virus. That's how you see society react. You can take additional measures. In my approach, in the approach that the whole of Europe, the whole world, chooses, you should also take it if it turns out that the numbers are too high. Geert Wilders is going one step further. He says, "I don't want people getting the virus at all." I would, too, but if you want to, you have to be honest. I'm not saying Wilders isn't, but then we'll have to be honest with the Netherlands together, as I tried to explain on Monday: then you'll close the case for a very long time until there's a vaccine. It's an illusion that if you close now and sit all the way home with all of you, there'll be a breakthrough in four or eight weeks. I hope so. I really hope so, but no one is expecting that right now. And a vaccine is gonna take a really long time. Then it has to be produced. It takes time, too, because it has to grow. It's not just here. You can't pull it out of a machine all of a sudden. It also takes time for that vaccine to be in a sufficiently large circulation. That takes so much time that I don't think that's a real route.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u272	Moreover, I do not think that is something Mr Wilders is advocating at all, nor do I. I really don't think that's true. The Prime Minister is talking about "for years." I think it's the opposite. You can very well take two or three weeks of maximum measures and then scale them down. That's much better than always scaling up incrementally. That's related to my question. The Prime Minister said earlier: we are going to see in the next few days whether these measures are sufficient and then we are going to see if more measures are needed. Does he agree with me that you can only see the effects of the measures at least a week after you have implemented them? So you're always chasing the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u273	Yeah, that's true. So, when you make decisions, you have to assess the impact of a measure as closely as possible and look at the figures that are emerging at the time. That is why it is so important that you do not decide Baudet or Rutte, but that you look at the experts. I am going to stand here again for the experts in the Netherlands: the RIVM, but also the people from the world of intensive care and the virologists in the Netherlands. They'll make mistakes, too. We all make mistakes and this is really new, so mistakes will be made there too. But I think we're lucky to have that expertise. At least I don't have that expertise personally. I do have the expertise to ask very annoying questions, and I do so all day long when we meet internally: asking questions, whining and tearing and doing so. But in the end, as a political party, that is the job that I, Bruno Bruins and the crisis club have to take decisions on the basis of that information. In addition, you always look forward. Then you have two ways to deal with the capacity. You can try to switch on the ic-side. We're working hard on that right now. If it's going to get more than you thought, you're gonna switch that way. At the same time, if necessary, you will take additional measures as soon as possible. There's no need for that right now. Nor should we decide it politically. This really has to come from the expert advice of the Outbreak Management Team, that OMT, that abbreviation that we have probably never used so often in plenary debates as in the last four weeks: the club where all these experts are together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u274	Fine. I also think that experts are important. You're gonna have to see which experts. I think RIVM experts have been wrong a lot lately, so it is important to consult other sectors as well: medical specialists and so on. I agree that you need to look at what is the best measure based on analyses and so on. My question was, and I didn't get an answer to that, whether the Prime Minister agrees that you can't see what's needed from day to day at the moment, because it takes at least a week before you see the effect. Wouldn't it be better to start and scale up maximum measures instead of what we're doing now, which is always scaling up? That's why you're always behind the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u275	No, you're trying to make the package so that you always have some extra space on the side of the measures. At the same time you are trying to make sure that there is also on the ic-side..................................................................................................................................................... It is true, it is a bit the feeling of a tanker that sails in a canal and had not seen a bend coming to the right. If you have a 200- or 300-metre brake road, you'll sail to the country, and you don't want that. You want to bet the bend to the right in time, so you don't sail on the land. After all, you have a brake road of, in this case, five, six, seven, eight or nine days. You have to keep looking at what happens to the ic-capacity. How is it taken? Experts watch how that goes all day. Is that consistent with what our assumptions were? At the same time, you look at the impact of the measures we take on society. Is that about what was thought? I'm not. Baudet doesn't. I also look as a citizen at what is happening on the street and then I see the enormous impact this social distance has. Slowly it is also a kind of lockdown in the Netherlands. If necessary, you take extra measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u276	Okay. That's exactly the word I was looking for: assumptions. So there are assumptions, there are scenarios with the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u277	Not with the government. Of course, the experts are looking at...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u278	But you've seen it, haven't you? They're on your desk somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u279	Of course, we talk about that all day long, yes. The tricky thing with the development of such a new virus is that there are so many suspicions about how that develops. How many people come back from vacation areas and what can the impact be? That's all you have to dissect in there. If you are looking roughly at the Netherlands at the moment, you can see that it is of course fierce in the south, in Brabant and Limburg. In the north, it's a lot less. Soon the question, including Bruins, will come as to how the ic-capacity is going to be. This is well arranged in the Netherlands. If you need extra support in the south, the rest can be added. That's how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u280	But there are scenarios? There are calculations: if we get so many patients in intensive care tomorrow, and the day after tomorrow so much, then it still fits with the current measures, and otherwise it doesn't? You can say yes or no to that, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u281	Not that black and white. It's all bandwidths. You will then see what you can do to enable additional ic-capacity or tools, if necessary. But that's also explained, I thought. Asscher just summarized that in the hearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u282	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u283	So if those general patterns are there... On 20 February, the Omtzigt motion was unanimously adopted here in the Chamber, with 150 votes in favour, emphasising the right to information of the Chamber. Can you share those scenarios with us? I would very much like to see them in order to be able to monitor the government's policies properly and to see whether the measures that are being taken, which have such an impact on society and also on human lives, are indeed in line with those scenarios that we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u284	They are not scenarios like in a budget you make, where you ask whether or not something meets the budget. It's really different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u285	Bandwidths, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u286	Yeah, I don't know. I should look into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u287	Okay, then I'm gonna go to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u288	Wait a minute. So the Prime Minister doesn't say no, but when...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u289	Well, I have to say honestly, it's just the experts who advise us. They work on the basis of their absolute knowledge of what needs to be done. They put that together. That is of course also a discussion in the Outbreak Management Team. That's not exactly controlled by a computer program. I can't. You can't do that. They try to advise us as best they can on this basis. So I'm not going there right now...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u290	But you've seen those numbers, haven't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u291	Mr. Baudet...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u292	I'm not going to make any promises about that right now. That's the number you heard. That's exactly the number Asscher mentioned, namely 40,000. Assuming 5%, that is 2000 Ice Beds. That's the same number you heard in the hearing. I can share that number here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u293	No, but I'm sorry, just my point...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u294	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u295	The Prime Minister said: in the coming days we will see whether the current measures are sufficient, based on the intake and the things we see in society, or whether we need to take more action. That's what my interruption was about. That's the point. All I said was, can I see what models, what numbers, that decision will be based on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u296	But you heard him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u297	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u298	That is the number of 40,000 and derived from that the ic-capacity. This is based on the different key indicators of how it develops. That's all just shared. But there is no model in which you say: it's such a walk-up or such a walk-up. You can't do that because you have to look at it every day. Then the experts advise us on the basis of their knowledge, also on the distribution in the Netherlands, where the south is in a different phase than the north. You can't say there's a model for the whole of the Netherlands. It doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u299	Yeah, I'm sorry, but you can't talk about it like this, can you? 40,000 is an abstract, theoretical number. That can't be measured because we don't have enough tests. So we are indeed assuming a number of factors. If they exceed a certain critical value, we will take more action, as you just said. My question is: can we know what that critical value is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u300	No, because there's no...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u301	So you don't know for yourself what that value is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u302	There is no model in which you can say... One of the things you're looking at is how the ic-capacity develops. That's one of the things you can look at. You can't say that there is a model that says: with so many Ice Beds you have to make an extra decision. That's when you can switch capacity. That's what the boss of the ICUs explained at the hearing this morning. That's the piece. In the Outbreak Management Team they bring together the knowledge about the development in Brabant and Limburg, what happens internationally, what happens in the rest of the Netherlands, how the ic-capacity develops and how the figures develop. On this basis, they will make an assessment for us of what extra is needed. At the moment, the message is that the measures we have taken are sufficient at the moment. There's a little room in those measures, too. Society is also taking additional measures. There is currently no expectation that this will lead to an overcrowding of ic capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u303	Then I shall go to Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u304	But... Can I just...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u305	I'm going to see Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u306	Finally, you are waiting to see what the RIVM and the other people you are listening to are saying, but you do not know what the parameters of those scenarios are? That's the conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u307	You have to make all your decisions in such a crisis based on inefficient information. That's what I said before. You cannot rely with 100% certainty on a model reality, because it is not there with a virus that is not even a vaccine for. So you rely on all the expertise and the hard grades you have. How many people are on the ICUs? What's the image on the ICUs so far? How long have people been there? When will capacity be released again? That's based on the total ic capacity and what you can add there. Those are the hard numbers you have. What you can't do is to say that you can determine exactly how it goes by the number of cases, even if it is because not everyone can be tested. So that also means that especially that ic-digit is a hard digit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u308	I am very pleased that the Prime Minister says that group immunity can be a consequence, something we are slowly building up. Still, I'd like to ask him a few more questions. The number of 40,000 to 80,000 deaths has moved around and the impression has been created that we would accept that. I would ask him to say very clearly and very strongly that we will do everything we can...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u309	Everything!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u310	... to avoid that and that's also more important than the economy. The economy is also important. That wasn't my argument. And I don't blame you, but it happened...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u311	Yeah, horrible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u312	Certainly vulnerable people who didn't see that briefing this morning are terribly worried about it. So purely the invitation: be crystal clear that that is now our most important task.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u313	For the whole of the Netherlands, following Mr Asscher's comment, the following. The aim of our policy is to ensure that care is able to cope. The aim of our policy is to ensure that older people and vulnerable people are protected as effectively as possible. Immunity is an additional effect that is built up very slowly, which helps but is not a goal of policy. This is not the aim of infecting as many people as possible or whatever, which I read here and there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u314	Secondly, if we know that it is essential to protect older people and people with vulnerable health more effectively in order to achieve this objective, and that this social distance is as great as possible, does that not call for stricter measures even now, so that in the meantime you can better protect those people? I'm not suggesting in any way that it's an easy choice. And indeed, a lot is happening already. But the concern I have is that because it is happening very quickly, a lot of elderly people, a lot of people with vulnerable health are going to be in hospital.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u315	Bruins will talk more about how we try to do that, but this discussion is incredibly fragile. Because the care and fear of the elderly and people with vulnerable health is enormous in this virus. At the same time I had to say this morning in conversation with the youth journal to children: even if you don't snot, it is really wise not to go to Grandpa and Grandma. When you snot, you don't go to Grandpa or Grandma. Can you figure out what that means? And we don't know how long it'll take. So on the one hand there is the fear of infection and at the same time it has a huge impact on older people. How many years do they have to live when they're really old, and at that time they'd like to see their children and grandchildren. Then you have to say: it is really in your interest to limit that. Bruins will say more about that, but that is really very sensitive. Maybe that's one of the hardest things. Okay, everything we've decided these past few days is very difficult. So far this has been well taken up in the Netherlands. Everything. I sketched in my story on Monday the picture of the roller coaster that's going so crazy fast that you're wondering what kind of movie we ended up in. We haven't had it before. That you squeeze your arm and think: maybe I'm in a really weird dream; we were talking here about nitrogen and pfas, which was complicated too, and now we're all in this nightmare. This group of elderly people is anxious. You want to protect it, but it's not without a price. Can you figure out what it means to people that they might not be able to see their grandchildren for a lot of weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u316	This is very recognizable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u317	Yes, I don't have to explain that to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u318	I drove here this morning at 100 km/h. That seems to have been a very important thing in the past. No, I don't mean it as a joke. But it does show: if only we had that problem now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u319	The relativity of some...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u320	If only we still had that problem. And indeed: I am thinking of my mother, your mother, of the concerns we all feel for all those people in the Netherlands. My last question on this point, which I also asked in my first term. If it is necessary, on the advice of the RIVM, to take more stringent measures, are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u321	Then that's what we'll do. Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u322	Are you prepared for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u323	Yes. In all cases, it is not even terribly complicated in the case of the elderly. It's more that it has a huge impact on society. If RIVM were to propose general measures for further social distancing, we would be prepared to do so. You could say, but fortunately it doesn't need to be done now and perhaps it doesn't need to be done at all: all shops must be closed, except the essential food stores. Last Sunday, you saw how fast it was going. You also see a lot happening in the nursing homes now. There are measures taken: "wash your hands everywhere," "stay an hour" or "come with one person, but at least not with children." All these things are already being done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u324	I would like to come back to the ic capacity. I think that many people are very concerned about this at the moment. Good thing about last Monday's speech was that the Prime Minister didn't bake sweet sandwiches. He was absolutely clear about the size, the size, and about how this doesn't just go by. I think it is very important to be clearer for the whole of the Netherlands on the basis of which indicators it is decided that this capacity should be increased and that we should be on time. In fact, I am asking for a little more transparency about all the underlying figures and I am asking if there is any possibility of communicating almost daily about what this means and where we stand, so that the Netherlands has the confidence that that capacity is being scaled up. Because at this time it doesn't work to say: go to sleep, you'll be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u325	Absolutely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u326	Openness, transparency about these figures is of the utmost importance. I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister that he's going to be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u327	There's gonna be one. But can I refer to Bruno Bruins? He totally prepared that for his answer. So he's got all the numbers on that. We're really working on that. I spoke, as I said, with the president of the ICI association, the one who was also in the hearing this morning. There is a tremendous amount of work to be done in order to increase the batch by batch. But there are all kinds of preconditions for that. There's an awful lot of work being done to meet that. That's not easy. Work is being carried out on VWS and also in hospitals day and night, with maximum creativity, in order to increase that capacity further if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u328	Then I'll wait for Secretary Bruins' answer. In a way, this was the same question as Mr Baudet's, but perhaps slightly different. In my view, we must be careful throughout this debate to blow things up. The same goes for the lockdown. If it's "lockdown" versus "no lockdown," then you're in two camps, but actually, we're talking about social distancing... the Netherlands is in a partial lockdown.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u329	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u330	It is always about the question: what measures do we take and hopefully what measures do we take? For the time being, we're in the scenario of switching into this partial lockdown. I have a very specific question about that. I'm getting a lot of disturbing messages from the border area, especially with Germany. People are still coming from Germany to shop here. Now you can say from the expert perspective of RIVM: that is not a greater danger to public health. But it does cause unrest in communities. People say: 'Hey, I keep all the agreements, as the Dutch government asks of me.' That, too, could be a reason for adopting measures. I would like to see the whole discussion on the lockdown running very closely along all these measures. I am particularly concerned about this point, about the borders, when it comes to support and peace in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u331	I don't have the answer to that right now, except that we recognize those signals. This morning there was a signal from Zeeland: tourism is coming across the border. And there are signals from Enschede and Hengelo, from Twente, from that region, but also partly from Limburg. Here and there there were some signals about hoarding from Germany. But that also seems to be happening the other way. I called this morning with the Prime Minister of Lower Saxony and last Sunday with the Prime Minister of North Rhine-Westphalia. Ferd Grapperhaus, who runs the crisis organisation, is working on this together with the NCTV. There's no further word on that right now. But we have that in full view. As soon as there's any news, we'll report it. The point here is the following: it is complicated because a lot of people work across borders. You don't want two things. You don't want the border workers to be obstructed, because there's a lot of care staff there too. Nor do you want freight transport to be hindered, because it is also important for the operation of the common area. You don't want people who have no business crossing the border unnecessarily. That is also one of the reasons why we have said from the Netherlands: do not go abroad at all, unless it is essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u332	I will never pretend in this Chamber that I am a virologic expert, but as a politician and a representative of the people, you know what is going on in society and what is needed there. That is why I would really like to call on the cabinet not to think here in: close the border or do not close the border. You can also think of border controls. You can also think about which people should cross the border and which should not. I would like to call on the cabinet not to wait too long, because I notice that we are otherwise going to be following the facts, and then the cabinet will be forced to do so. Normally, I'd love to see that happen, but in this situation, it's just not. So I would really like us to be informed of this within one or two days, because the problems in the border regions are very serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u333	I understand, and I agree. We are looking into that and we will inform you as soon as possible if that is necessary. So it may also be that we say "we've looked at it and there's no need" but I hear those same messages and we're looking at what's needed right now. I really agree. With my answer, I do not want to alter what Mr Klaver said about it, because I support it. You also saw it this weekend with cafes and restaurants in Zeeland and Brabant, which were flooded by people from Belgium. At the end of the day we thought: even with the measure of 100 people and the social distancing, that situation is just not right, so we have to close the cafés and restaurants in addition to Thursday's package. That's the way it is. You keep looking at what makes sense in what you're doing. This was no longer logical, and from the OMT it was also said that it would really contribute to further controlling the numbers. It is of course quite far-reaching to close all non-essential shops in the Netherlands because of the problems in the border region. We're looking at how that relates to each other right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u334	The fact that this is a very special crisis is perhaps demonstrated by the fact that a Green Lefter is talking here about setting border controls and perhaps considering closing borders, and is trying to transfer this to a VVD Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u335	That also went through my mind for a while, and then I thought: we had those discussions again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u336	Sure. But the aspect I am trying to raise is that it is very important that the cabinet not only listens to RIVM experts and anyone who understands this terrible disease.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u337	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u338	It is precisely about the noise here from the people's representatives, but above all from those border regions. How do we keep society quiet? Because the virus is one, but the outbreak of panic may still be the greatest danger to our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u339	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u340	I have a question about the Prime Minister's speech last Monday. He spoke very emphatically about group immunity. A very extensive piece was about that. We would build a wall around our vulnerable people. Those remarks say it as a fact that a very large part of the population is going to become ill... have, of course, caused a lot of unrest. Wouldn't it have been better not to talk about group immunity in that speech at all? The World Health Organisation says: do not do this, because we do not know if it works and there is no evidence. In fact, the World Health Organisation says explicitly in the direction of the Dutch Government: do not do this at this stage of the development of this virus, because it is distracting from what we really need to talk about, namely testing, detecting and isolating. So why did the Prime Minister choose to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u341	It is not the aim of the policy, but it is something that happens through the policy. And I think that if I then take the opportunity to address myself to the living rooms, I should also be complete. It is quite an arrogant action to force you to the whole of the Netherlands at 7 p.m.; there really must be a good reason for that and I think there was one. I have said in all honesty: this is part of the plan. I thought I should. But if that has created the misunderstanding that it is therefore an objective of policy, it is good to remove it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u342	If the World Health Organisation finds it necessary to respond to the measures proposed by the Netherlands today, and to send out a message about them, I think the plan is a bit off. I do not enjoy it at all; I would have preferred the government to emphasise very clearly what measures we should take now. Many of these measures have been taken, but the most important thing we cannot take as a country is my impression. There's a shortage of test capacity. The GGD has let the contact investigation go in a lot of places. Perhaps I should ask the question as follows: is it not the case that this group immunity has passed because we as a country are no longer able to do what the WHO actually recommends, namely to test as much as possible, to detect as much as possible and to isolate as much as possible, so that we do not lose sight of the virus?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u343	Let's talk about the WHO. That question was also asked by the Party for Animals and others, I think. We do what the WHO recommends. Our policy is entirely based on what the WHO says. The WHO also briefed the Member States of the European region this morning and called on them to do whatever is necessary in their national context. In the jargon, it is called "excuse" the blended comprehensive approach. We do the same in the Netherlands. It also focuses on its own unique health care systems. In the Netherlands, of course, we have the general practitioners as the first line. That works differently in a lot of countries. It also has to do with the GGDs, the hospitals and the RIVM, and with how they relate to each other. The WHO says: if it is still possible to trace contamination to a source in a region and thereby limit its spread... In a few regions of the Netherlands, this is still possible. That's where the containment is still going on. But in the south, of course, we're mitigating. That is all in line with what the WHO says about it. If we had had the aim of our policy of building group immunity, I understand that there is criticism of it. But that is not the goal, but I cannot take away the fact that it is an additional effect of the strategy that follows the whole world. If you control the hospital capacity and people become unfortunately ill, sometimes severe, then this leads to a very gradual build-up of group immunity. But that's very slow. That helps to make a country a bit more resilient, but Van Dissel rightly said today: "There is a chance that you will get 50% or 60%. You'll be busy for years. Hopefully that won't be necessary. So you will eventually also need the vaccine." It is therefore not a policy objective. In my view, there is no difference between us and the WTO. We do what all countries do, but I can't remove that effect either. That's what happens, because people get sick, unfortunately. That's what my speech was about. I do think I should be completely open about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u344	But that's just not right. I have heard several times today that our strategy would be in line with everything the WHO recommends. But if so, why does the WHO say in the newspaper that this strategy is not the right one? In the package of measures to combat the virus, tests and detection and isolation of infected people are at the top. According to WHO experts, there is no evidence of group immunity in this virus. The expert says, "That's why we don't think it's a good time to use it."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u345	We're not betting on that either. We agree on that, don't we? We don't. But I can't take away the fact that if immunity were to arise, all the experts would think that would happen. I can't block that, can I? Because people get sick, that happens, but that's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u346	But if, in his speech, the Prime Minister devotes a great deal of his time to explaining the strategy, namely building a wall around vulnerable people, and if Mr Van Dissel also agrees with that strategy and says that it is indeed the idea to allow the virus to circulate in a controlled way, then surely it is not so illogical that it raises a lot of concerns for a lot of people? And then you can say that this is not the primary objective, but it is because we do not have enough tests in the Netherlands and because the policy has been abandoned to detect and isolate, this is perhaps the last option we have left, namely to keep it as limited as possible and therefore to accept that we should assume immunity. That is a strategy which the WHO apparently felt it necessary to say to the Netherlands at the end of the speech: listen, we do not think this is appropriate at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u347	But let's talk about the tests. It seems as if the Dutch government is thinking: we are no longer testing. We would love to test much more, but there is a shortage of testing capacity throughout the world. Anyway, Bruins will go into that in a moment. There's only one or two producers, Roche and one more, I think. There's just a shortage of tests in the world right now. I can't change that now. That's no reason to mention this. But I have one chance to get through one of those TV speeches... I thought that was necessary. I decided to do that Sunday when I saw how big this is. Of course, that was clear for some time, but that realization was there on the weekends. I thought: I have to share this with the Netherlands myself. I therefore believe that I should try to be complete, and so I have chosen to say: this is our approach; there are also two other possibilities; and in this approach there is an effect that can occur, and that is immunity. I can't stop that, can I? That's just the way it is. And that people are worried, I get it. I didn't give the speech to take away all those concerns either. With that speech I only tried to tell everyone what the facts are and what we are doing about it, and to show that this is not tomorrow and that this is intense, but that we do have an approach to get through this step by step as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u348	Finally, a question about the wall we are building to protect the most vulnerable people, chronically ill and elderly. The test capacity is, of course, a very important one. That's how we hear that not all health care providers who have complaints are now being tested. If we fail to do so, then of course nothing will come of this wall that we have to build, because it is the district nurses, the domestic nurses and the general practitioners who are in contact with that most vulnerable group. So if we can't test these people in time and make sure they can do their job safely, how are we going to keep the wall that the Prime Minister wants to build?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u349	But there seems to be a choice in this, as if you have a choice between testing or not. We'd love to test a lot more, but the tests aren't here. We must also be realistic in this regard. The OMT then gives advice on how to handle this limited test capacity as well as possible, but that is not a policy that we are consciously pursuing. Within this scarcity, we try to distribute the available test capacity as best we can on the basis of expert advice. That brings with it difficult choices, but that's not because we want to. At the mouth caps there are different manufacturers and you have different leads. Bruins will say something about that later. That's awfully complicated, too. This has been very difficult in Europe for weeks, and now things are getting a little better. By pulling it horribly on all sides, you can try to do the best you can to prevent you from reusing it, even though it is not entirely certain that this can be prevented, but at least they are working very hard on it. But what we are talking about is testing capacity, which is not something to be attracted to at the moment. There is not enough at the moment. That is not a choice of this government, that is a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u350	Very briefly, Mr Hijink and then I will go to Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u351	The Prime Minister is now acting like I'm blaming him for making this a conscious choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u352	That's what I thought I heard. I don't mind that either, but we'll have to discuss that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u353	It's about openness in the strategy you're pursuing. The Prime Minister is right to say that, in such a speech, it is best to be open and honest and to tell what is going on, but then perhaps the Prime Minister should also have opened up and said: we cannot at the moment test those caregivers who are going to get over the floor with older people. 'Cause then you're gonna give me an honest picture. Then perhaps the problem is even bigger, but then we can come up with proposals and encourage the cabinet and then we can go with the cabinet itself to find ways to solve that problem. There is no doubt that this is being worked on, but I think it is a problem that communication explains a strategy that concerns a lot of people, and which the Prime Minister is actually admitting: it is only a question of whether the wall that we want will stand if we do not have enough tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u354	In my view, there are now a few discussions that are all very serious. One is that there is unfortunately a limited test capacity in volume, which leads to the OMT advising us on how to deal with that limited capacity. In addition, at a stage where there is no vaccine and where group immunity is currently illusory because it is going to take a very long time, you must do everything you can to protect the people with vulnerable health and the people who are older and who are also vulnerable to this virus, in the meantime. That is what my debate with Asscher was about, and Bruins will go into that further. I tried to reflect that in my speech on Monday as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u355	The Prime Minister has already responded to my question as to whether far-reaching measures are still conceivable. I am actually pleased with the implementation of Mr Klaver's interruption, as well as the fact that we are also being examined and informed about whether we can limit non-essential border traffic and whether it is contributing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u356	Yeah, we're looking at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u357	Just passed the statue of that intersection and those traffic lights. You can say that if you want to minimise the risk of accidents, you have to turn all the traffic lights on red and keep them strictly, but then you lose a lot of freedom, which also has a price. In the care you see that sometimes very radical measures are taken: all doors locked and no one in and out. But is the price paid for this always real? Is it then considered on the basis of a good risk assessment? Or at the end of the day we say: put all the traffic lights on red, because then we are sure that no accidents can happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u358	You mean care for the elderly, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u359	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u360	That is exactly what I said to Louis Asscher; that is exactly this point. Of course, there are very difficult things to do. Someone who is very old probably thinks: I may still have a few months, up to a few years to live and I want to enjoy my children and grandchildren. It's a lot to say to people that it's actually better not to visit. That was also my struggle in the Youth Journal item being broadcast today. Anyway, I did say it: boy, maybe it's better to do it via Skype or some other way. Giuseppe Conte of Italy said: we are now moving away to be able to embrace each other immediately. But then there has to be "in a minute." Some older people may think: maybe that's "once" there isn't at all; now is now. Older people often live from day to day and hope that their health stays good, that it may be given to them to also be there the weeks and the months afterwards. When you're very old, sometimes with vulnerable health, it's complicated. But I do think that we have the social task of protecting that group as well as possible. If you were, especially in nursing homes, to allow people to make individual choices, you would take risks with others in those nursing homes. Those are very delicate discussions. Let's not get over it too lightly. You don't; nobody here does.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u361	Sure. That's exactly why I'm asking that question. It is not just a question of visiting grandchildren, because that can sometimes be achieved well, but it is also about carers, who did things outside the home that made it difficult to endure. It's about all these questions, too. Is there a maximum approach to care centres, nursing homes and so on, to ensure that a balanced choice is made, so that not automatically the strictest choice is made in all circumstances to avoid all risks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u362	In any case, I know that it is being worked on in the sector. I notice from all the messages that I just read on social media, but also from what I hear from the administration, that there is an enormous amount of work being done to find a good balance. But it's a balance. This morning I heard very well, those were reports from society that a number of supermarkets are looking to arrange special hours for the elderly to shop. Then I think: okay, that's the kind of creativity you need, so your grandmother, mother or aunt can go to the Albert Heijn or the Jumbo for a while. I think I should mention all the supermarkets now: the Albert Heijn, the Jumbo, the Lidl, the ALDI, what do we all have in the Netherlands? That's all just social life, right? That's what makes this country so special: that we meet there. Those meetings are a little less so now. Maybe we'll think as younger people: we'll read a little more or clean up the house. Often we are also a bit more convenient with electronics: we can skype, zoom and I don't know. But that's not what all the elderly people have been given.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u363	In parliamentary relations, the government rules and controls the Chamber. Especially in a crisis like this, it is very important that we follow that. Of course, the Chamber can come together and ask all kinds of questions about things that may have been overlooked by the Cabinet or about things that live in society, but we need to be able to rely on them. I'm worried. At first I had the impression that the cabinet based itself on the advice of the RIVM, the OMT and the World Health Organization, but I heard the Prime Minister say perhaps he made a mistake: if it had been up to me, the schools would still be open, because I think it can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u364	No, RIVM says that; I'm not saying that. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u365	So that's my concern. The recommendations of the World Health Organization are: do social distancing. The OMT also said to close the schools. We also see that there is a 16-year-old in the ICU...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u366	No, the OMT didn't say that; he didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u367	Is there a mistake here? Do we have a misunderstanding about the OMT's advice? Well, I'm gonna check that out now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u368	I don't think the OMT has given any advice on closing the schools; no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u369	But the World Health Organization says... There is obviously room for interpretation; we need to get that sharp today. Does the Dutch Government refer its package of measures to the opinions of the World Health Organisation or does it interpret it itself? For it is really important for the Animal Party to follow these advices.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u370	We do, but there can of course also be discussion between the various advisers. You and I aren't exactly virologists either. Eventually, we sail on the OMT's compass. The OMT has all the expertise. That's not just the RIVM, it's also the people from the ICUs. That is certainly the case when they are in a larger composition together. You also saw today the whole list of abbreviations from the medical sector, with really just the top players in all these areas. You will see at the beginning of the letter from Jaap van Dissel which went to you today, with the latest OMT advice, how broad that has been put together when it comes to these major issues. That consultation last week said 'wider' or'smaller', and I am afraid to say that the schools could remain open. That hasn't changed either. That advice has remained. The question was asked to me: why are they closing? At that time I said: because there is also something like society and the implication of our democracy. That is, of course, the House of Representatives. But also in a general sense, a democracy is a system in which you not only count seats in the Lower House, but also try to be open to social signals. And of course there was a massive vote with the feet. People kept children at home, were worried. Parents and teachers were very concerned, et cetera. That is why we said last Sunday: let us do two things. We understand this social resistance, it doesn't have to be, we still think they can stay open, but this signal is so intense.......................................................................................................................................................................................... Two things. Please help with the shelters they do fantastic little children of parents working in vital sectors. And two: let's use that time until April 6th, with RIVM, by doing Brabant research in a number of regions where the outbreak is more extensive than in other parts of the country, in order to further validate the research from China and the information we have. And that can hopefully help to create a common basis for a situation after 6 April.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u371	It's annoying that there would seem to be room for interpretation. We have looked closely at the WTO's opinions. For example, they say: testing, testing, testing. If not, if the test capacity is overloaded, then prioritize vulnerable groups and advise people with mild symptoms to stay home. That's what the Cabinet does. But we also read really far-reaching measures to increase social distancing. We read that if: schools closed is just wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u372	But does the WHO literally say that schools are closed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u373	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u374	Exactly. That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u375	So we have an interpretation thing here. I think it is very important for Dutch policy to be truly supported or in line with the advice of the World Health Organisation. So how are we gonna fix that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u376	No, but that's solved now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u377	Is there daily contact with the Special Envoy for COVID-19 at the World Health Organisation? I really don't think it's okay if there's a misunderstanding about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u378	Now I think there's no difference of opinion. I thought Mrs Ouwehand said that I could not check here so soon that the WHO would have said that the schools should be closed. That's how I understood her before. I didn't see that, but I couldn't check it out here now either. I thought if she said that now, I'd have to assume that now. But she doesn't, she says. She says: what the WHO advises us is to follow a blended comprehensive approach. That's what the Netherlands does. This is a mixed, comprehensive approach. As far as education is concerned, there is a WHO study, namely a WHO study on China. We also discussed this in the Chamber last week, and the next few days in the media. This study shows that at least in children, the risks are very small. I do not have that in front of me now, but I can refer to last week's debate. On this basis, the OMT has said in the Netherlands: in this very difficult phase, you must allow a society to function as much as possible; it is extremely important that children can enjoy that good education; leave schools open. Then you saw the social response to that. And you can't ignore it as a government either. Because, once again, we are in a major national crisis. I can always say that we do it with 17 million people, but if a very large proportion of those 17 million people say, "Rutte, we do not agree with you on this point," then I cannot say: yes, but I will continue on the path I have chosen on the basis of the expert advice. But those expert advices have not changed, which have remained as they were. And I don't have the impression that there's a difference here either. So the WHO does not say: you have to close the schools. He's just saying, "Make the most of it to control the case." And that's exactly the scenario we're gonna follow: maximum control.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u379	I value it so much, because the WHO has criticised the Netherlands. Part of it may have been caused by a misunderstanding in communication. I do not think it is right for the media to hear criticism from the WTO about Dutch cabinet policy. I think it would be better if the measures that the Netherlands is taking, or has not yet taken, were coordinated with the WTO, so that we do not have a discussion on them. For the Animal Party, it is really important that what we are doing here should not only be done on the basis of the advice of the RIVM and the OMT, but also fall within what the WHO recommends. I also see another point. The WHO recommends that contacts that the patient had up to two days before developing symptoms be detected and quarantined. The Netherlands does not meet this requirement. When it comes to testing capacity, the WHO has an alternative opinion, but I do not think that this is the case. Is the cabinet prepared to ask the WTO for this: if we do not, what do you advise and is that still justified?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u380	Not the cabinet: that's what the OMT has to do. That's where the people who watch all this are. I don't have what you just said right now. So I'm gonna ask at official level...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u381	No one's in the civil servant's lodge now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u382	The business needs to stay empty, so there's no one there. But they're listening. I am going to ask you to look at this part of the debate. I don't think there's gonna be a reaction right now, but I can't see it right now. Moreover, there is intensive cooperation within the European club in this area. It is constantly being looked at: how does this fit in with the global approach? It is not for nothing that last week's school advice was also based on WTO research from China. That is why I was equally surprised that the WHO had said 'the schools are closed', but that is not the case. When I look at what the WHO recommends, my picture is that we are really following that whole approach. As far as there was perhaps a misunderstanding about building immunity: we do not, that is not a goal. It may be an effect, very slow, but it's not a goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u383	Mrs. van Kooten-Arissen. No, Mrs Ouwehand, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u384	One last question. In my opinion, we really need to prevent the WTO from saying in the press: oh, is the Netherlands doing this? We don't think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u385	I'd like to avoid that, too, but I can't guarantee it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u386	No, I get that. But can the Prime Minister promise that the policies we are pursuing here and the choices we are making here are in line with the WTO recommendations? And that, if there's any uncertainty, it's just as actively tested? The WHO is not going to check whether the Netherlands complies with its advice. But the other way around, of course, you could.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u387	It's different. Our RIVM is in fact a Dutch branch of the WHO. It's not separate. Of course, these big issues of virology work in a column. So I can't promise right now that RIVM at every step...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u388	No, no, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u389	Mr President, very precisely. Maybe I can serve Mrs. Ouwehand. I'm not going to promise that RIVM will call the WHO at every step it takes to ask: is this true? They're top players at the RIVM, the virological clubs, the ic's et cetera. They really work within all the WHO directives. Of course, if there's any doubt, I suppose they will. They are now listening and have now followed this part of the debate. But I am not going to make any commitments for additional bureaucracy if Mrs Ouwehand so wishes. I agree with her: I also want us to do the same as the WHO. We really agree on that. I just want to avoid making some kind of bureaucratic commitment to making extra calls. I thought that's what she wanted. I want to avoid it, let's agree that they say: it's not right what you're doing. I'd like to avoid that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u390	Can the Prime Minister still reflect on it? Because, of course, it's because of that discussion about group immunity. The Prime Minister says "RIVM is the translation of the WHO." RIVM is talking about group immunity. They advise the Prime Minister to mention this in his speech to the Netherlands. The WHO then says: hoho, but we do not think that is wise at all. Something doesn't go well, does it? As long as such situations can arise, the translation from the WHO to the RIVM is not entirely satisfactory. I think the Prime Minister should take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u391	There was a misunderstanding, namely that our policy would have the aim of building immunity. There is no such goal. But Mrs Ouwehand and I agree. Really, we agree. I also want what she wants: no misunderstandings with the WTO. Let's establish that with each other. And then let's leave it in the middle for a moment how we regulate it bureaucratically. I want to avoid creating an additional flow of paper with the WHO on this issue. That won't be necessary. No way. There was a misunderstanding here, and I don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u392	I'm going to see Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u393	Mr President, on a point of order. Some of us here are getting much more room than Mrs Ouwehand is getting right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u394	It is the same question that has been repeated several times. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u395	May I make a promise?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u396	You want to make a commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u397	I make a promise that I will look into that matter from WHO-RIVM. We want the same thing: no hassle with the WHO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u398	Don't look so angry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u399	Mrs. Ouwehand doesn't look angry and neither does Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u400	Mr. Clover does.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u401	Mrs. Ouwehand, let's do it this way. I'm just trying to figure out if we can do more to avoid any misunderstandings about this, and I'll come back to that in the second term. We both do not want the WHO to say anything other than us. I'm just gonna figure out how that's done right now and if there's anything else I need to do. I don't think so, but let's check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u402	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u403	No, I'm going to see Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u404	Send me a text what else I need to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u405	No, don't text. Everyone needs to know what's being said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u406	The translation from the WHO to the RIVM is just not right. It is a fact that the RIVM website contains the following information. Question: How do you know you're cured of the new corona virus? Answer: If you feel better and haven't had any health problems for 24 hours, you'll be cured and so you won't be able to infect others. The WHO, the Director-General of the WHO, literally said in a press conference the day before yesterday: at the moment when people are free of complaints after infection with the virus, there must be at least two weeks to wait until the quarantine measures can be lifted, because they can still be contagious for people in their surroundings. My question to the Prime Minister is: why is the advice of the RIVM and the GGD so diametrically different from the advice of the WHO?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u407	I'll find out. As I promise Mrs Ouwehand to see whether we are doing the best we can to avoid misunderstandings between what we are doing and the WTO, I will also answer this more specific question in the second term. Affirmative.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u408	The Prime Minister has indicated in this block that everything is aimed at preventing the ic capacity from being flooded. That is an absolute condition. He also indicates that if you want to take additional measures, you need to switch to them in time, because it takes seven or eight days for the tanker he was talking about to be adequately adjusted. On a question from Mr Van der Staaij, among others, he indicated that there are also social considerations. I get that. At the same time, we know that the course of this disease is not linear, but exponential. That is why I would like to hear from the Prime Minister that, at the time of the emergence, the first priority is chosen in good time and measures are taken. If you wait two or three days too long, because you also weigh social interests, the consequences are exponential and not linear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u409	Answer: yes, absolutely once. My discussion was just as specific about the elderly. That's not without a price. That was my point, but that doesn't mean you shouldn't do it if that's the advice. Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u410	The same applies to those older people: if this growth is exponential in Italy, we have seen that it can increase considerably in a few days and you do not act, the consequences for those older people as vulnerable groups are much greater.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u411	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u412	Is this monitored from day to day, precisely at the stage where these ic-beds still seem to be more than sufficient? Then you have to switch to the signals and not when they're almost out. You're gonna be late anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u413	Day to day. I'm just trying to rewind the movie for the past five, six days. My discussions with the experts are really just about this: Ic-capacity and is the package of measures sufficient? There's no ego. If it turns out that the advice would be a total lockdown, well, no total lockdown, that term lets go of it, if the advice would be that we should move on, then we will. We'll do what the advisors say. Then there are all kinds of problems, but they come after. The opinions are leading.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u414	That's the way it's gonna be. One asks five, six questions in a row and the other does it in one go. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u415	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the very calm and comprehensive answer. I think he has been able to explain very clearly in this block of the debate that the Dutch strategy is aimed at protecting vulnerable people. We do this through social distance and by examining at a time what measures we need to take. This, together with the technical briefing of RIVM today, is very reassuring. I believe that many colleagues have been on the interrupting microphone because of one passage in that further excellent speech last Monday, namely the one on group immunity. This was also the subject of the debate between the Prime Minister and Mrs Ouwehand. I think we can just say that that part of that speech was not very useful. I would like to ask the Prime Minister about this. How is he going to take us further in the next few weeks in the constant dilemmas he faces? I assume we won't get a speech every night from the Tower...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u416	If you want, I'll ask the NIS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u417	We've been seeing each other almost every day...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u418	Maybe straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u419	Straight away, that's possible. In the coming weeks, too, we will often have this social question again: are we not about to take further action for this sector, or go a step further for the border region or for the Wadden Islands? How can the Prime Minister take us into this every time in the next few weeks, so that the Netherlands simply knows what dilemmas lie ahead, honestly, and knows that it is not easy to make the right choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u420	We have, of course, the structure in which, as soon as the OMT said something had to be done, a system of high-level crisis management and the Ministerial Crisis Council is set in motion. That's the moment when you taste each other's kidneys, not about whether it's wise because of the economy. That may not be an argument, but about questions like: are you absolutely sure? Shouldn't we be more? Less? Well, less than ever. And more: so far, all the reactions from the experts have proven to be really robust. Then there is a very good chance that we will take the advice. If that happens, we'll tell it right away in a press conference. I'll do that myself once in a while, but you've also seen Bruno Bruins and Arie Slob this week, of course. Then the question was: hey, where's Rutte? Yeah, I'm somewhere else at the same time. And yesterday, when the three men of the economic bloc were working, I was in the European Council myself. So we will also have to divide the tasks a little bit. But Bruins or someone else or I will do so immediately, and also outline the dilemma. I get that point. I also tried to do that in my speech on Monday, namely to outline the alternatives, why you choose this one alternative and why that is not perfect; that is because we don't know a lot yet. We'll always do that, and we'll try to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u421	If I may add a small addition to that: in the speech on Monday evening, the Prime Minister was right to say that we are in a society in which we take everything 24 hours a day via social media, via international TV channels and so on. The Prime Minister now states that he will do so every time we have to discuss new measures with the OMT. That's very nice. But sometimes as a cabinet you also have to choose, I think, to do it at a time when the OMT has no advice at all with you but all kinds of questions already arise from society. I would therefore like to ask the cabinet: sometimes choose to explain with a press conference or a televised interview why we are not going to go further in these measures, so that you can continue to include the Netherlands in them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u422	Okay, I think that's a good suggestion. Of course, I use a little... or use... You use the reporters for that, but it's not quite sure who's using who. The press conference that I have on Friday standard is of course more and more about that, I think, at least in my introductory statement. I can see that the questions are also about that. Even after that there is another TV and radio conversation, of which I do not determine the subjects but the journalists, but I also suspect that this will be more about corona than about 100 driving. In this respect, I believe that there are also existing instruments. I have to say quite frankly that I always have to deal with the 24-hour new economy. I think it's okay if I say that? That NOS, RTL, but also SBS and all the newspapers in the Netherlands it really is very... Yeah, it's always so dangerous to go out and praise a journalist as a politician. But I see the nevertheless very objective and not hyperbolic representation of what is happening in the Netherlands. It is also very critical of the cabinet from time to time. With education, of course, there was a lot of criticism at the weekend. Why can't they see that? That's part of it. But in itself, I think that in this respect all the news stations and newspapers and also the weekly newspapers really take their role. Anyway, that's always a dangerous remark, because a journalist never wants to be praised by a politician.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u423	So we're in that partial lockdown. The question of the Netherlands is: when will there be more action? In fact, the Prime Minister has indicated that this is very much related to the capacity on the ic's. Actually, my question is: could the Prime Minister better indicate what the time is? When is the time when we should not scale up the ic's but that we should take additional lockdown measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u424	The complicated thing is, you can't exactly cut that. So was my debate with Baudet. The OMT, who sits there together, are all those experts who try... It won't be modeled. Baudet asked: Can you send that model? That's not underneath either. It is all the experts who sit together, follow the trends and also see what happens internationally. There is new information every day on how it develops in other countries. We now see Austria, where developments are very intense. We've had them in Italy and Spain. My impression is also that the very far-reaching measures in France also have to do with the fact that no matter how we do it, we have to steer them further towards preventing the care sector from becoming overburdened. The only thing I can say is that you can see very clearly in hard figures how that works on the ic side, but in the measures, that is ultimately the weighted opinion we get from that expert club. I keep asking myself if there's overshot in it: did you leave some room? They always assure me: yes, we have left that; there is room in it and we are now seeing additional social measures. But, Mark, they say, keep washing that off those hands and that foot and a half. 'Cause it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, it's like, you know, it's like, it's like, you know, it's like, it's like, you People naturally take it into account that not everyone does it. That is also in the figures, unfortunately. You'd want everyone to do it, but not everyone's gonna stick to that one-and-a-half meter. That is also included in all models.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u425	I'm looking for something more concrete, just to give the Netherlands a grip. Next week is when we're going to see the effect of the measures we've taken so far, of that partial lockdown. That is a very important moment. I can imagine, perhaps, that the Prime Minister can give a ruling on this, which, if we do not see a flattening of the number of infections or if that remains the case, is a reason for taking additional measures. I think it is good to give the Netherlands something of a prospect: what does the cabinet send? What information do we have? What are we looking at? I think it will be a crucial moment next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u426	Yes, and then it is indeed important that you make that package on advice. That package has a delay of five, six, seven, eight, nine days. So indeed, next week things are really going to be visible. Part of the package started last Thursday. It was completed on Sunday. So next week you need to see some obvious effects. That also translates into the ic-capacity. But for that too, my constant question to the experts is: can you, even though these effects are not yet so visible, see things in other underlying figures before? There may also be special things. It may happen that in a region in the Netherlands where it is now very quiet, there is suddenly a peak that you could not foresee in advance in your models. That could also be a reason to say: hey guys, be careful, if that happens in more places, we have to do extra things already. That is why it is not easy to put it into a model. So I cannot now offer Mr Klaver the hard handle of: here is a yes or no that is going well. What you can see gradually next week is my expectation, is whether additional measures are needed. Then we'll take it. But I'm going one step further. If we could already see that next week's measures are not enough, then I am of course very interested in whether you can look at them now. That's the challenge I'm putting back with all the experts. It's not that easy. That's really not that easy. We'll talk about that again in the next few days. That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u427	We cannot do that now, but that is an unsatisfactory answer. What we need in such a crisis is data, as much data as possible, from all over the world, from here in the Netherlands. My question is: how is this now being worked on, not only by RIVM but also by NIVEL and the universities? How do we ensure that as much data as possible is accessed so that we are going to take a very long time as the crisis lasts longer, have more data on the basis of which we can base our decisions? At the moment, it is very unsatisfactory when the Prime Minister says: it is about a little bit looking on the advice of experts. We just need hard data to make the right decisions. There aren't any right now, so you're gonna have to row with the belts you have, but I do need them. So what is being done to collect and process these data as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u428	Of course, in that OMT are all the people who have data. This includes the general practitioners, the occupational and infectious disease club, the internist-infectiologists, the medical microbiologists, the anti-infectious disease control, the Dutch Association of Doctors for Long Diseases and Tuberculosis, the Dutch Association for Intensive Care and the Association of Specialists in Elder Medicine. They're all in there and they all have their information that's brought together there. That's how you do it. They assess with each other whether the package is sufficiently dimensioned, whether there is enough overshoot. In the meantime, you'll also see what's actually happening on the ic-side. I can't offer a model that says "it's running up now and now we know it" and so on. Unfortunately, there just isn't. There is no such thing throughout Europe. The tricky thing is, and that makes it so exciting, you have a hockey stick. If you make a mistake in your assumptions, there is no linear increase but an exponential increase. That's what you're trying to get ahead of on all sides. You're trying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u429	Finally, Mr President. I would like to ask the Minister to consider whether a much broader study should be carried out on this subject in cooperation with the universities. Yes, all these institutes have data, but it's about processing these data. They need to be brought together and further epidemiological research needs to be carried out, because we are still in this crisis for a long time to come. This also means that we must involve the universities fully; all the science available here in the Netherlands and internationally. This debate does not need to be standing up. We will have to make the funds available for this too, so that this research can be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u430	I shall come back in second place to whether there is anything to brew in it. I get the question. Mr. Chairman. The main points of the first period in my direction were the approach to the major issue. There are still a few things that haven't been answered. We talked about education. I have a number of questions to answer, I say to the Members at the interrupting microphone. I answered the question about why we did what we did last weekend in education. But there were a few other educational questions. Why don't I just walk them all out and see if you're happy? One of the questions was how we relieve people in vital sectors in their home situation. We have arranged for persons working in vital processes or belonging to a crucial profession to be entitled to emergency care in order to relieve them as much as possible. We are very aware of how incredibly important it is that they can do their important work. Then there was the question about the finals. Because of all the fuss, I have no more with me today than the letter Arie Slob sent you. I can read it to you. You can see that, unfortunately, there will be no finals, but that it will remain with the school advice issued. That will now be final because it is not possible to go further. Then there was the question of how laptops and iPads can help with remote support, even for students who do not have these resources. If the teaching material of a school is offered digitally, it is important that schools also help to ensure that pupils have access to it. That means that if you don't have your home computer, laptop or tablet, you'll report it to the school and the school will look for an appropriate solution. They will often do the same with the municipality. You can now see all kinds of initiatives emerging between schools. That's what I'm talking about. Mr Segers asked about the measures relating to final examinations in secondary education. Or was that an expected question he didn't ask? He did ask him. The Chamber was informed of this separately yesterday. There are several questions and answers posted on the site of the government. The main line now is that secondary schools are allowed to take school and practical examinations. How they're going to do that will vary from school to school, so the situation seems to be now. They apply customization. The practical exams and the digital exams at VMBO start from 30 March. The central written final exams start on 7 May. Those exams are still going on. These practical exams and digital exams on VMBO, which start on 30 March, also have a flexible decline period. This means that schools can take the exams from that date, but that there is a certain flexibility in that. Again, the cse's, the central written final exams, start on 7 May and they continue for the time being. If they cannot continue, it will be decided by Monday 6 at the latest and will be actively notified so that schools can prepare themselves, if necessary. That at that point. Are schools allowed to teach at school to final graduation candidates? That's basically done remotely. This is quite possible for almost all subjects. That's why nothing was included in yesterday's letter. The estimate is that many schools in this area have a lot to do with the organizational consequences of this. But if schools think it's really necessary to complete school exams, there's room for that in itself. The practical examinations are explicitly mentioned in the letter, both the school exams and the central exams. This cannot be done with distance learning, because the necessary equipment and materials are obviously not available at home. Then there was a question about abroad. Is there good cooperation in the European Union? You can always do better than that. In itself, I think it is a good thing that it has been decided to close the Schengen area, the European Union, including the non-Schengen countries in the European Union, and on the basis of my information, but I am always trying to make that clear to the UK too. You just don't see that anywhere on the English websites, so I'm still having second thoughts about that. However, it is true of Schengen and the European Union. Of course, Dutch people are staying abroad. You know the approach on that point. One must try to come back first. In many cases, that is extremely complicated. If that is possible, then, of course, we are also trying to help. In the first instance, the travel organisation is at the bar for this. That was also discussed yesterday at the Foreign Office. If necessary, we will try to support the travel organisations. This occurred in Morocco, for example. There was a special situation, where Transavia eventually organized a lot of flights to get people out of there. It's a very large group of people. One of the reasons for putting the whole world, including Europe, on orange is: don't go on a holiday, because we're all really sitting with the fried pears of so many people who are abroad and want to go back. That is such a huge logistical task that we are not trying to make it any bigger. Then there was a question about the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. Here too, the effects of the virus are now visible. I myself am in close contact with the three Prime Ministers of the islands. We also have good contact with the three islands that are part of the BES structure. Of course, the six Caribbean islands are actually one space. RIVM and VWS are active in the region to control the virus and ensure acute care. Minister Blok, Secretary of State Blokhuis and RIVM are in operational contact. There's been frequent consultation. There is also concrete attention to the Kingdom through a special task force in which all these different departments work together. Think of the transport of goods, vital personnel and repatriation of tourists. This is agreed with the governments, but also with the leaders of the Caribbean Netherlands, i.e. the three BES islands. Minister Knops is also in close contact with all involved and also with the authorities and the government commissioner of Statia, St Eustatius. That was about the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. Mr. Chairman. I thought I had answered all the questions that were not directly related to the general approach, the more specific questions that are not in the area of Bruno Bruins or to the economic package.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u431	I think this reply from the Prime Minister on the education block shows that it was a sensible decision to close the schools generically. It is also impressive what teachers, teachers, are currently showing with the online and home education offered. The same applies to the care of children of parents with vital professions. I think Mr Heerma and I both jumped up because together we have received a cry of hearts from Safe Home. This organisation is home to thousands of vulnerable children in the Netherlands who are not in a very nice environment and are now more at home than they really would like because of the school closure. The heart cry of Safe Home is actually: can the Cabinet see if these vulnerable children can also have access to care in school buildings, so not only for children of parents in vital professions, but also for this group of very vulnerable children who are in the picture at Safe Home. I can imagine that this cannot be answered immediately in this period, but Mr Heerma and I have just received this request from that organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u432	I'm gonna find out, and then I'll get back to you in second term. I'm afraid to answer that now, but I'm gonna find out. Then I come back to the WAO in the second term, opportunities to provide more data on how it develops and whether previous interventions are needed, and Safe Home, education and whether you can switch that with people working in vital sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u433	In addition, that distress signal came in during the Prime Minister's first term. It could be done in the second term, but the emergency call comes from Stichting Voor Werkende Ouders, but also from industry organisations and childcare: there are therefore children who are already under supervision and who have to deal with acute unsafe situations at home. Their emergency call is, therefore, whether they too can have access to that education and reception. Perhaps Mr Koolmees will be able to say something about this in the first term, because this affects part of the territory of his department.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u434	Then we should call Hugo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u435	Let's make a deal: I'll do it in the second term. Otherwise, I need you to call Hugo. You could try that. If you don't talk first, of course you can. We'll take a look, or I'll take this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u436	"Hugo" is the minister of VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u437	Sorry, yeah. If anything doesn't go well, we'll call Hugo, yeah. But that's the U.S. Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u438	Then we know something about the working arrangements within the cabinet. I also agree that if the situation at home is not safe, the school is safer. It is, of course, very painful that it is, but this seems to me to be an understatement of that question. But I had asked a question about the absence of resources at home. People sometimes find themselves in a disadvantage, which makes it impossible to literally plug in to the digital education given from the school. Do I understand correctly that the Prime Minister says that schools have flexibility in this and encourages municipalities to give schools flexibility also in the context of poverty policy in order to give those children really a safe place and access to digital education at school itself? Does he encourage municipalities and schools to take action there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u439	Yes, and that is where the schools have a special responsibility at the moment: in the case of homework, the schools have a role to play in this. As I said just now, if there are any problems there, including in the financial sense, then they are supposed to see how the municipality can contribute to them. The school is therefore looking for an appropriate solution. It is not the case that the school then necessarily finances the laptop, but the school is looking for an appropriate solution. If necessary there is consultation with the municipality. So that's already happening. I would like to make that a little more active. I think this goes well in many cases, because very often the school authorities and the municipalities in the Netherlands have a very close relationship anyway. But where that can still gain strength, I would like to say: do it there too. 'Cause I don't want holes to fall here, of course. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u440	This means that there is a demand for schools in the most vulnerable neighbourhoods, because that is what it is about at home where things are just difficult. I understand that this is of a totally different order from what is being asked of care and businesses, but it may be that those schools, especially where it is already difficult and tight, need to put a tooth into it. Is the cabinet also generous about this, should there be a little extra help?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u441	The slightly more economical sense I got, but which I believe is the same, is that we are looking at how we can support this, so we are looking at how we can support these initiatives between schools and municipalities, but also between schools. I suppose that is what I'm saying from here but to Arie Slob and Ingrid of Engelshoven that we're not crooked there. Yes. But that's how I know them: they certainly aren't in this crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u442	One more supplementary question. It is precisely in this situation, in which older people have to sit much at home, that it is important that they remain on the move. That is what I said in my first term. But now we just belong to EenVandaag that the program Nederland in Beweging will stop because of all news broadcasts. I know the Prime Minister isn't about that, but I also hear him pleading for an hour in the supermarkets. This is also something I would like to argue for. If the Prime Minister supports that, they might want to think about it again in Hilversum.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u443	When I plead for something, they don't usually do it in Hilversum. So I don't know if this is wise, but if you think it helps, I support this plea; absolutely, completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u444	I have just asked the Cabinet for a package of measures for the most vulnerable groups in our country, for example the homeless and homeless.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u445	That's what Wouter Koolmies is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u446	Oh. But since this affects not only the Minister for Social Affairs but also half the cabinet, it is also about what housing corporations are doing about expulsions and what happens when the gas, water and light are at risk of being shut down, I would like to ask the Prime Minister this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u447	He'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u448	That's exactly my point. I don't want to wait for us to get a reaction one by one of everyone. I want the cabinet as a whole to look at a package of measures for the most vulnerable groups in our society, which are at risk of falling out. So I want us to get a joint package, including for the homeless and homeless. And how are we going to ensure that the food banks remain stocked and that the issue can continue? I see the Minister speaking with Minister Koolmees. I would like to wait and see for that internal consultation, as long as we find out that we are not going to get a very fragmented story, but that we are going to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u449	That commitment is there. It won't be shredded. But I don't have the answer right now. I know Koolmees is about to go for this. They're working at the moment, which is what they've already done, together with the three of them, very closely. That's what he does with the Secretary of State File and Keijzer. But also with Secretary of State Van Ark. They are all closely involved in this too. Anyway, we couldn't put everyone here either. Couldn't have done that with the holes that should fall here in box-K. But apart from that, Koolmies will pick this up in no time. I can assure you that we are doing all these kinds of themes comprehensively. Only, it's not that because it's integral, so I'm doing it. That can't be sustained.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u450	Does the Prime Minister agree with the SP that it is important that we do not leave this to individual municipalities or individual charities and others who are working on it, and that it is important that, as for business, as for employees and as forzzp'ers, there should be a comprehensive package, in which the government itself will invest and in which the government will help with the organisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u451	We have chosen a division of roles as regards the answer. I'm not president of the cabinet. I'm the foreman. This cabinet is trying to do everything integrated. It is my experience that this kind of delicate, sensitive subject always works out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u452	That's been said a few times. That's also a repeat of the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u453	I really want to leave this with Koolmees. I just didn't bring that answer. Then I'm gonna freestyle, and that's never gonna be pretty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u454	It is also a repeat of the same answer. Mr Segers, you've just been here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u455	A brief question about communication. It is very much appreciated that the gesture interpreter has been used in the communication of the cabinet. Especially by Handicapped Care The Netherlands has been asked to look at communication for people who find it difficult to plow through it, who cannot find all websites directly. Also pay attention to that target group of people who are intellectually a little behind. Have special attention to them, because the information and care also concern them. I'd like to do this heart cry from that side.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u456	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I was just checking on Bruins. And in the meantime, I've had a hunch about Safe Home. I've come up with an answer. No, I just got that. But first I'll just... I'm sure I can do it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u457	Mr Jetten has also just been here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u458	The Prime Minister has just answered a lot of questions in one block. That's why I'm here for the second time. Thank you for the answer on the issue of the stranded Dutch abroad. I fully understand the Prime Minister's call not to go on vacation and travel any more, so as not to make the problem any worse abroad. But there are currently around 200,000 Dutch people abroad who have already left abroad for business or private time. They're a lot worried about when that mega operation starts. I am also getting signals that the Dutch, in particular, who are stranded in Latin America, cannot get in touch with airlines at the moment. They are wondering: if the Schengen area is closed to travellers from third countries in a moment, can I come back?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u459	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u460	It's nice that the Prime Minister can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u461	Absolutely. This closure of the Schengen area is not a closure for the members, at least the inhabitants, of the Schengen area. They'll still be welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u462	Exactly. And then the question is, if the Prime Minister can tell us a little bit more about this now: how long does he expect such a mega operation to start, even if companies no longer do so themselves, but should it be coordinated, as happened with Morocco?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u463	We don't have an air bridge or anything like that to all those regions. There's no such thing. We have one government plane. There's 20 people in there. It's not gonna work out. No, we don't have an air bridge. We work through the travel agencies. They really feel their responsibility. We're trying to support that as best we can. In Morocco, customisation was possible at some point. At the State Department, a club is working on this 24/7. Only 200,000 people, that's a big deal. In such a big crisis, of course, you have all kinds of smaller crises. Well, call it "small"; the 200,000 people are involved in a very large group. That's what they're trying to do at the State Department right now. I can't at this point promise that there will be an air bridge tomorrow. No one's gonna do that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u464	I understand. I'm not asking the Prime Minister to do that either. But perhaps he could promise to make the information available by country via the websites of Foreign Affairs, such as Nederlandweldwijs.nl, once these agreements have been made with airlines and travel organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u465	I'm just gonna promise that that State Department website should at least be constantly up-to-date. I can now also answer the question about Safe Home. Indeed, it may also be desirable for children in vulnerable families to have an adequate solution. This may also mean that they do not belong to a group which falls within the crucial and vital professions. The municipalities are working on that. They are consulted with schools, childcare organisations and health care institutions to assess which children are involved. 'Cause they know those kids, of course. OCW is now in talks with industry councils, the VNG and other stakeholders to ensure that these children are given the best possible help. That's the score now. I can report that now. Let's agree that I agree to give updates on this from OCW as soon as there are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u466	Thank you for that answer. It's a good thing they switched so fast. This is about children who have often been found to be in acute unsafe situations. I would therefore like to hear the Prime Minister's last commitment on the deadline within which we hear it. 'Cause if that's in three weeks, it's too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u467	Okay, I'll let you know in second term. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u468	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u469	I'm gonna get out of here soon, 'cause I see there's no more questions!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u470	Then I'd like to see how the distribution...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u471	Oh, Mr. Chairman, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u472	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u473	Do you think it is right that Minister Hoekstra and I, because problems always have to be solved in a crisis, should be gone for a moment? We'll be back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u474	Then I'll hold you to that. Who's next? Oh, Mr Bruins, I hear. I now give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care. And as the Prime Minister said, only he was allowed to make an introduction. So now please just give us a concrete answer to the questions asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u475	Okay, Chairman, I'm gonna take that glove. I'll be brief. I will talk about questions concerning personal protective equipment and then about ic capacity. Then I'll answer a few separate questions. You have all asked a lot of questions about these two capacity issues. Then it's about stuff and that's boring and dry, but I can assure you I'm standing here with a faster heart than usual, because it's super exciting to keep the Dutch care provided with sufficient protective equipment. That really is a fight, because you know there are a lot of other hijackers on the coast and because you know that parties are being overbidden, so for a higher price are bought by another country or intermediary. Also, parties need to be extra secure because otherwise they "get away," euphemistically said. People are threatened and there is fraud. Everything is being done to obtain protective equipment in the world. We are doing our stinking best for the Netherlands. And "we" is always a combination of government and VWS in consultation with buyers of hospitals, knowledge of the GGD and other parties. So it's always a common approach, but it's being worked on 24/7, day and night. The good news is that for today order size 140,000 mouth caps have become available. So that gives us a little air, but of course more is always needed. For the next few days, I hesitate to mention the numbers of some millions of masks available for the Netherlands; "quick," it says. That's what I can say. For the rest, I have to be very careful with that. I don't want to present birds in the sky; I want to present birds in the hand. I want "underpromise" and "over deliverer" at this point. That seems very important to me. With this I have answered Mr Hijink's question: what is taking so long? That's because there's a lot of competition on it. I have also indicated that it is an effort of many different parties. And maybe I should add this: one mouth cap is not the other. We will therefore have to look more closely in the Netherlands, on the basis of guidelines drawn up for this purpose, in which situation which mouth cap is the best mouth cap. It makes so much sense, but that is a measure to make the use more sparing. It also looks at the reuse of mouth caps. Then you clean them in a high quality way, so that a mouth cap can be used several times. It's not just about mouth caps, it's also about glasses, jackets and breathing equipment. I'll get back to you later, but also those 500 extra devices have been ordered. We're working on making sure they come in soon, too. That's not protection material, but it's an order. In addition, we're watching.I'm finishing up the block for a while.If there can be an industry in the Netherlands that, for example, can make cotton masks itself easier to make, to say the least, homely. It's off at different parties. If I know more about it and I can be more specific about it, I will tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u476	I would like to appeal to you to answer all the questions relating to mouth caps and other materials now. You have just said: I will come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u477	Okay. What's taking so long? Because the demand comes from different parties. Can you force all mouth masks to become available? There must be something to enforce, in the sense that there must be a supply somewhere. But there is a claim decision that we can use to claim, for example, mouth masks. A little more precise about the distribution of protective equipment. It is nice when it becomes available in the Netherlands, but how does it go on? I explained this to you last week in the debate. We will ensure that this is collected nationally at the LNAZ, the umbrella of the regional institutions for acute care. We'll make sure they have the insight. From there it is centrally distributed among everyone, also about care parties that are not yet well hooked up with such a ROAZ. Not every form of community care, not every form of home care and not all institutions of care for the elderly had yet joined that network of ROAZ's. It is, of course, very important to properly identify the need at regional level so that it can be delivered from that point of view. This still requires a priority. This also applies to youth care and GGZ, when it comes to acute care needs with an infected patient and the lack of personal protective equipment. Then I think I have had the points about the caps, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u478	Of course, it is very pleasing to hear that 140,000 mouth caps are now added. But how long is that gonna take? Can the Minister give an idea in how many days that have passed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u479	No, that's heavily dependent. How long are you gonna do that? We will have to prioritize to care needs. I think if you ask all healthcare professionals in the Netherlands how many they want, you get a different answer than if you ask: how many do you strictly need in the coming short time, waiting for new supplies? I don't have a good idea yet. So I understand that question, but I can't answer it. And I have made a commitment to keep to the security of such precarious subjects as protective equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u480	Then we wait until the moment the answer is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u481	There are a lot of trucks on their way that still haven't arrived, if we can believe all the stories. So I think it is also very good that we are looking at what we can possibly set up ourselves in the Netherlands. My question is: is there also the willingness and the possibility to leave all kinds of licensing procedures, given the great importance of health? Is there any legislation in place for this? 'Cause otherwise, of course, it's gonna take a long time. So can we make extra haste about this, if that's a promising option?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u482	Both the foremen of VNO and the foremen of the SME Netherlands have been in contact with me to say: turn your creativity on, look where the space is. People are exploring that. As far as a blockage on rules is concerned, the following. The quality of the stuff must of course be good, which goes without saying, but for the rest we must ensure that we go through rowing and glazing to ensure that we get protective equipment ready. Then I think the simplest masks, the cotton surgical masks, are the easiest to make themselves. Again, the quality must be good, but that has not yet proved to be a blockade in the last ten days that we have been working on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u483	But if it is true that a time-consuming authorisation procedure has to be carried out from a spatial point of view, is there the possibility of choosing an accelerated route with possible emergency legislation or existing rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u484	Yes. I say that, I'm going to check that, but I see the importance, because I want those protective equipment to become and remain available for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u485	I am a little surprised that the Minister is now saying that the measure to be able to make progress is in preparation and is therefore not yet in place. I would say that it should have been there by now, and we should have started progressing products that we now need most. I am thinking, for example, of protective devices, such as mouth caps, which are used in industry. Speak to the Shells. Go see what's in stock at spray shops. Go into the chemical industry and see what resources are available there and where they have supplies that we actually need for our care. As a cabinet, go to work like a hare to pick up the stuff there and bring them where they are needed, namely the hospitals, the general practitioners and elsewhere in the care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u486	Then I didn't express myself well. The claim decision is ready and can be used. But one thing is even more beautiful than having to advance them, and that's that you get them on a voluntary basis. The chemical industry is such an example, where parties come to us and say: you get them from us, you need them more than we do, we can get them with a smaller stock. They're helping us. So the claim decision is ready, but there has to be something to claim. On the basis of volunteering, there can be a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u487	"Based on voluntaryity" is something I'm always very much in favour of, but we're dealing with an emergency. I am talking, for example, about district nurses telling us to go to their clients without any kind of protection. I am also thinking of people living in disability care, the most vulnerable in disability care with a non-treatment protocol. It means that if these multiple disabled people get sick, they won't even make it to the hospital. At present, disability care is provided without protective measures. I am very much in favour of volunteering when we look at industry, but when I see what emergency packages are being prepared to support the industry, I would say that we can now ask more from it than just volunteering. We can now also say: to return the goods and bring them to health care, because that is where it is most needed now. And if that is not very soon voluntary today, then tomorrow that regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u488	It's two things. On the one hand, there is a priority for each region to look at the needs in the broad, i.e. all the care sectors, including care for the elderly and the disabled. On the other hand, it is about ensuring that we have mouth caps in the Netherlands. I think it is really fantastic, and I would like to say that once again there are so many parties, for example from the chemical industry but also elsewhere, who are willing to cooperate in this, because it is urgently needed. I would love it most if the big parties could be re-established very quickly. That is what is coming in the next few days, but I think this offer is already a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u489	Finally, Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u490	It's not good enough. We cannot look at the companies now while billions are in the air to support these companies, in the sense that we are now going to wait on a voluntary basis to see if they are going to hand in the material that is now so badly needed in healthcare. If GPs e-mail us and call us that they have to do with one mouth cap all day and are terrified that they're gonna fall out within a short period of time because they're gonna get infected with the virus themselves, I don't think we can afford to wait until companies voluntarily make their supplies available for care. We simply cannot afford to do that, so I think the Minister should now say: we are going to pick them up where they are and we are going to demand from the companies that have stocks of mouth caps or other protective equipment that they are going to visit the hospitals today, a little organised. We shouldn't wait for it to happen voluntarily. We can't afford that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u491	There's got to be some progress. If there are no supplies, there is not much to be recovered. I think it's really good that we have this stock now. We're full-bodied to create more supplies. If all this does not work, we have that claim decision ready to make use of it, but everything that can be done on the basis of consultation and willingness to deliver is fantastic. The speaker must agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u492	A number of European countries have introduced border controls and increased their borders. They are aimed at people, but of course they also hinder transport, because if you have control at the border, it will delay them. Is the Minister talking to his European colleagues or is he prepared to talk to them about these kinds of transport movements, so that masks and protective equipment can be sent by Europe as a matter of priority? Because there is also production capacity in Europe, and there may also come in other airports than Schiphol material, which we can and should distribute across Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u493	Yeah, by truck. If there is another sound, remark or rumor, Mr Van der Staaij said that there is a truck somewhere along the border with Belgium or Germany, we will look for it. So where's that truck at, at what border pole? What amount of mouth caps are we talking about? Who owns it? Checking out these leads is becoming almost daily work with us. In addition, I have spoken to both the French and German colleagues on several occasions, because I do not think it is possible for a truck with mouth caps or other items to remain on the border.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u494	Right now, people in care risk their own lives to help others. We are not getting away with saying: we are doing our utmost; we are consulting with all kinds of parties; I am glad that they still want to give something on a voluntary basis. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I want the Minister to say tonight to everyone in the Netherlands who has mouth caps, big business, small business, private, association, everyone: turn them in. If you do have such an emergency regulation, why has it not been put into effect? People who now work in care don't have time for consultation. The World Health Organisation was actually quite satisfied with the way the Netherlands operates, but had one very important point of criticism: speed. At the moment, I would like to hear from the Minister that this emergency regulation will enter into force immediately, because we cannot wait for the protection of our heroes, which we are all talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u495	Speed is what we do. I have just explained to you that we are doing everything we can to get mouth caps available in the Netherlands, for today and for tomorrow. We put one supply together after another. I think that the promotion of masks is an extremely complex measure to apply, because I prefer to work on a voluntary basis. But if necessary, I will not hesitate to make that claim decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u496	What stone does this minister live under? It's necessary. There's a big shortage of mouth caps. There is a major shortage of protective equipment. That means we have to do everything we can. Maybe it's just...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u497	We put everything on top of everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u498	I think I was talking. Perhaps it is only a very small amount of stock that is now available, but it is an important signal for all those people who are fighting for us in the front line of care, that we are doing everything we can here in The Hague. Now saying that there is a claim decision that you could allow to enter into force, but that you prefer volunteering, is the wrong signal to all those people who risk their own health.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u499	Then I take that back. Then I take that back. Well, I'll get that motion for a resolution in effect tonight. I will clarify that and I will inform your Chamber. I think Mr Klaver is right that we should do everything we can and that I should show it along that road.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u500	Many thanks to the Minister. I think this is very much appreciated so that they can see that we are fighting this minister and this Chamber hard for all those people who are now in the front line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u501	And so it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u502	It is very good that the Minister finally brings that claim decision into force. Of course, he should have done that months ago. But I have another question for the Minister. When you were still in the denial phase, about the whole world already saw that what happened in China could happen here in Europe. Why did you not then, in January, immediately ensure that we had enough of all the protective equipment available in the Netherlands? What'd you stop?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u503	We made the inventory about three weeks ago. We have asked different regions to see what there was a need for mouth caps. That demand for mouth caps, and its delivery, has actually gone very well for a lot of weeks. But in the last few weeks, that question has exploded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u504	It exploded because you, as a minister, including the RIVM, still denied in January or considered it very unlikely that the virus would come to Europe. You yourself said that it would probably not be such a big problem in the Netherlands. If you had taken a different view, you could have started to obtain the protective equipment in January, first of all. You didn't. That's a big mistake. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, It is good that this decision is now coming into force, but can the Minister give a concrete indication of how many of the protective equipment there are now? Whether it's about mouth caps, glasses, gloves or whatever. How much do we need to make it, let me say, until the end of the month? And when do we get it? I'd like to hear a concrete number twice. And the third time, I want to hear when you make sure they're there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u505	I just told you I don't have that overview. What I'm working on, that's a certain number. That is the number of mouth caps now available in the Netherlands, which has been delivered today. What is needed is a permanent question in care situations. On the one hand, there is a desire to have masks and a certain amount of them in a lot of care. On the other hand, there is also the priority statement needed to ensure that those who come into contact with corona patients are first supplied.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u506	It is quite incredible that we have the biggest boss of the medical world in the Netherlands, the medical minister, and that he has no idea how many are needed. As a group, we are flooded with messages from people who work in home care, people who work in community care, general practitioners, people in hospitals. They all say: we have two more, we have three more; we stop immediately, because we simply cannot work safely without those protective equipment. And I ask the big boss who is going to do this in the political sense, and that is Minister Bruins again: how many do we have in the Netherlands now and how many do we need to be out this month? And if he doesn't know that, then he has to make sure he knows that tomorrow. Then we can see what the difference is, and then you have to make sure we get it. But you can't just say, "Well, we need more, there's a plane coming, there's being stolen, and it's really hard to get them," when you don't even know how many we need.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u507	That's not a fixed number. That is what the priority given to the question of who is first delivered is crucial. We cannot say that all healthcare professionals in the Netherlands will only get all the mouth caps for the coming year, because we do not have that stock. So we're gonna have to strictly prioritize. That insight is made by region.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u508	Of course you have to prioritize. And I didn't say anyone, especially the people who don't need it, should have a mouth cap like that. I'm just saying to you as a minister, you need to know how many you need. How many mouth caps do you need? How many health protective glasses do you need? How many surgical gloves do you need? How many jackets do you need? How much of that do you need? You don't want to tell me that your ministry hasn't already informed all the doctors, all the hospitals, all the home-care workers, all the people in the neighbourhood: boys, you have enough, and how many do you need? That can't be true! That is a total administrative failure if you do not know that now!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u509	Once again, this need for mouth caps and other materials is selected by region. Priority will also be selected by region. On Monday I spoke to the concerns of the Netherlands in a larger context. I have no more concrete insight than I can offer you here tonight. This is about the availability of the mouth caps that have become available in the Netherlands today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u510	This is really shocking. We don't even know how many mouth caps we need. The Minister doesn't even know that. Colleagues have already said it: it is about the safety of the heroes that the whole of the Netherlands clapped for yesterday, for the great work they do. Those people need to be protected, and no one in the ministry, let alone this minister, has been thinking in the last few weeks about the question: how many do we need and what should we do? I find it a shame that you do not know yet, but I would ask you to give us that insight as a Chamber at the end of this week and at the latest at the beginning of next week, but actually tomorrow. Would you at least agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u511	I will endeavour, Mr President, to give greater clarity in quantitative terms, however difficult that may be. This is about the mouth caps and the protective equipment. I'd like to switch to ic capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u512	On the previous point, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u513	It is also about production capacity in the Netherlands. I've been asking questions about that. Mr Van der Staaij interrupted the question: are there any obstacles? The Minister indicated: there are no obstacles. Can the Minister indicate what has been done since the previous debate to scale up production capacity or to ensure that new production capacity has been added?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u514	I have asked this since the previous debate, both at VNO and at SMEs Netherlands, to look at the possibilities of producing mouth caps in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u515	What's the answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u516	I haven't gotten an idea yet. I made the call. I have spoken with both gentlemen, but I have not yet received a result, in the vein of: this could be made at factory a, or this could be done at factory b.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u517	Again, we don't have the time. That you have not yet received an answer... I hope you're on the phone every day...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u518	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u519	... with the question: who's going to produce this? I should also like you to ask not only the open question, but that your ministry has an insight into what type of companies this could be. Otherwise, the Ministry of Economic Affairs will. I also see a note appearing behind you. Are we going to speak directly to them to start doing that right away? If they don't want to, we'll have to force them if they do. It has the highest priority right now. So how many companies in the Netherlands you don't have to mention names are there that could do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u520	I can't be more concrete than I've been. We have addressed both VNO and SMEs in the Netherlands to ask what space there is and whether they want to create that space. I don't have any concrete answers yet. I know that several companies are thinking about this, but I can't be more concrete than this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u521	That's not enough. I would like to know how many companies in the Netherlands could do this. Preferably in the first term, perhaps through the Minister of Economic Affairs, and otherwise by the second term at the latest. I want to know how much contact we've had with these companies in the last week. I want to know what is happening tonight to contact these companies, because production capacity needs to be raised. If there is not, we need to switch as quickly as possible, so that we can also produce ourselves in the Netherlands. We are in this crisis for a very long time and we need everything, everything that can be done. So this answer is not enough and I expect better from this minister, this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u522	I am going to try to do this, Mr President. I wanted to make a comment about the ic capacity. That is the second subject on which you have all asked questions. At the moment there are in the order of size of 1,150 ic-beds. Of these, the normal occupancy is about 70% to 75%, which is about 800 beds. This means that there are currently about 350 beds available for corona patients. The extension of these 1,150 places concerns some elective care. That is a concern that can be moved, so that less use is made of those ic-beds. This means that about half of the ic-beds are available for other than corona care and the other half for corona patients. We want to expand that ic-capacity to order size 1,500 ic-spots. I've mentioned that figure before. Then it's about using ic-boxes, which aren't normally occupied, and that can happen soon. That is a matter of a day, a single day, in which there can be scaled up to a total of 1,500 ic-spots. The next step is the scaling up to 2,000 ic-places. It'll take more time. It is more dependent on suppliers, including ventilation equipment. There are varying views, but within a few weeks that scaling up to 2,000 is possible. Both for that step to 1,500 and the step to 2,000 is crucially organizing the personnel side. That's being worked on right now. But the scaling up to 1,500 can be arranged quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u523	Have you answered all the questions relating to ic capacity?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u524	There is further thought about scaling up over 2,000. This may be achieved through instruments such as the capacity from private clinics and perhaps from other environments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u525	Last Thursday, what I say, Friday morning, a motion by Mr Asscher and the undersigned was adopted saying that the Minister must do everything to ensure that there is sufficient ic capacity, including everything that goes with it: the people, the appliances, the ventilation equipment. My question to him is: how much is enough? That's my first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u526	Mr President, the Minister is not doing well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u527	I'm suspending the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u528	I will reopen the sitting and propose that we suspend until 8.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u529	I'm reopening the meeting. We started a little later because the technique has abandoned us a little bit. It's not gonna happen tonight. However, compared to the subject we are talking about today, it is not much. I'd like to start by saying that the Minister of Medical Care is doing well. He felt unwell, but luckily he's at home now just to catch up. The Prime Minister wanted to say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u530	Actually, no more than that, Mr President, and perhaps reading his own tweet, which I liked. He writes on Twitter: "Thank you for all your support for just now. I suffered from a fainting from overfatigue and intensive weeks. In the meantime, things are getting better. I'm going home now to rest tonight, so I can get back to work tomorrow to combat the #corona crisis as best I can." I thought I'd read it to you anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u531	We wish him well. I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs. If it's okay, it's just a few questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u532	I hope so, yes. Good. What a time. Mr. Chairman. We have just talked about health, and it has to be said, also for the socio-economic threesome that stands here, also in front of us, health is one thing. However, there is a reason to talk about the economy. The measures we have taken in the name of this health have an extremely significant impact on the economy. The commitment must be to ensure now, and also to give confidence, that people keep their jobs and keep their incomes, and that the companies do not fall over. That is what the emergency package for jobs and the economy is designed for. First of all, this package is about the activity of all groups in society. It's about employees, it's about big and small companies and it's aboutzzp'ers. Mrs Ouwehand and Mr Van Haga have also pointed this out to me. That's right. A lot ofzzp'ers have got the impression that they wouldn't deserve to be in that package. I did regret that yesterday, because in this role, mine, and at this time you should never cause misunderstandings. Those misunderstandings have been caused, and I have expressed my regret. Thosezzp'ers now have a place in that package. That's what's meant, that's what's deserved, that's what's smart. On that package, the Wilders asked: can we guarantee that no company goes bankrupt? The use of the package is jobs, income and activity. We're gonna keep adapting it to whatever it takes. But it is clear that it is almost inevitable that there are also companies that may not come out of that fight unharmed. We can't guarantee that for every company. We put everything on top of everything. It's a tough job. We always have to adapt it to the latest insights, because we want business to remain, jobs to remain and income to remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u533	I would like to tell the Minister through you, Madam President, that I did not say that companies should not go bankrupt, but that companies should not go bankrupt because of the corona crisis. Once again, your colleagues, or not directly colleagues, the President of France, a colleague of yours, a minister in Germany, have said so. They have said: it will not happen to us that because of the corona crisis I am not talking about other reasons companies in our country are going bankrupt. My question to you is: could you repeat that? So not: in general prevent bankruptcies, but bankruptcies due to the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u534	That is absolutely the stake, but we know in advance that this is such a big task that you may not be able to guarantee it for every company. But it is precisely the stake: we must put everything on everything; this is what all eyes will be focused on. The package must always be adapted in such a way that we achieve exactly this. But I find guarantees complicated, because I shouldn't stand here and say anything unrealistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u535	Let's get on with it, because hopefully I won't have to make a motion on it. Can I put it this way that this Minister states that it is his absolute commitment to ensure that the corona crisis does not bankrupt Dutch companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u536	In the words of Mr Wilders: who otherwise would not be bankrupt... No healthy businesses, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u537	Because of the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u538	There you go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u539	Agreed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u540	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u541	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u542	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u543	Mr. Chairman. Several speakers here, Mr Segers, Mr Jetten, Mr Klaver, Mr Baudet, Mr Veldman, have all stressed but also asked questions about cooperation and solidarity between all those companies at this difficult time. I think that is an important point, because that is something that needs to be put down really hard. Look, economics is nothing but voluntary cooperation to both ends, but that also requires cooperation and conspiracy at this time to deal with the setbacks together. There's different sides to that. They have been mentioned in this debate, but I would like to mention them, because at the same time this is a form of appeal. Take the coffee shop that's now out of sales. That pays rent. Does that coffee shop have to pay for the rent, or is it conceivable that we in this society will have a conversation with the landlord about that? That bar rental from a brewery. Is it normal for that cafe to have a constructive conversation with that brewery? Is it also normal that, if there is a surplus of dairy products because export opportunities are difficult, supermarkets might not renegotiate prices now? These are, I think, things that we have been getting through here in some way and which I hope I can also express on behalf of the speakers in this Chamber to the many parties who are also working on this. Because I have examples of this. This is what people are doing along these lines. I would also like to mention that as the way to deal with this. That's my first example. Maybe there's a question about that already. I'll leave that to the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u544	Thank you for this reply from the Minister. I think he is very good at expressing how entrepreneurs can help each other in these difficult times. Yet today I have received a lot of awfully ugly examples from landlords, property owners, who are now letting their shopkeepers know: the government pays 90% of your wage costs, so don't think I'm going to do anything about the rent for this store. What can the Minister do? What tools does the Minister have to increase the pressure on this kind of wrong landlords in the next few weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u545	What I'm doing here is that call. I do not see any heavier means that are realistic and intervene in all these cases, but I think we have a duty here first to express morally what we find normal conversation in this situation. We'll start with that. I have seen the agreement of several Members of this Chamber. Let's trust that conversation first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u546	Short follow-up question. So if there are small entrepreneurs who are being pressured by their property owner in such a way, where can these people come in? Because I think it is important that we know where the wrong landlords of shopping premises are, so that you, as minister or aldermen, can work with them to address those people on their own responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u547	We don't have a window on that. We shouldn't. Let's not bureaucratize it. I think it's important to say this. We do not do that because we generally doubt the right to rent or find contracts with brewers not desirable. That is because this is a special situation that is avoiding all economic logic, which calls for a special understanding between partners in the chain. That's what I want to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u548	Finally. We're not going to pump tens of billions of tax dollars into the economy to save landlords from shopping premises. We do that because we want wages to continue to be paid. So if there are any shopkeepers who think "I'm getting screwed here," I'll call them to e-mail me. Then I'll get to work on it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u549	I will also bring this into the regular conversations we have with employers and employees and see if it can get a place somewhere. That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u550	You rightly call for good conversations between different parties. It is often a very long chain of activity. It starts with someone who produces, but often ends up with the bank or the government. Well, thankfully, from the government, you've put your best foot forward. Do you agree with me that perhaps there should be a signal from the government to the banks as well? By the way, I just saw good signals coming in from ABN AMRO, who wants to do something with the mortgages. Do you agree with me that there should be a signal from the government or perhaps help to the banks, for example through a guarantee, to at least secure that end of the chain?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u551	I, too, see good signals from banks. My colleague, Mr Hoekstra, will deal with this later, because questions have been asked about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u552	The Minister says very interesting things here. What he is actually saying is: we must now look at how we are going to freeze or review the laws of the free market economy, of the capitalist free market economy, before the crisis that is going on. Mr Jetten just asked a very valid question: if such agreements do not come about on their own, what are the means in the cabinet's hands to intervene, for example when we see that farmers are no longer getting a normal price for their milk, for example when we see that catering entrepreneurs are going under because they are no longer able to pay their bills? So what are the legal possibilities?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u553	I'm not redefining capitalism here. I urge a normal, good conversation between parties who will need each other in the chain for years to come. That's what I do. I think that's reasonable. I think parties do. I see many examples of this. But I would like to mention one more example, namely in the case of staff shortages. We see the bizarre situation where there are large surpluses in some sectors and other large deficits. I have examples of this in the debate too, and Mr Segers mentioned examples of this in the debate, namely that branches can help each other and, also in the interests of the people who are involved, help each other's industries. Sometimes that's possible. That's not always possible. That requires organizational talent, but that's what we have in this society. So I wish the sectors would help each other if there were conflicting issues with pressure on the workforce.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u554	I would like an answer to the question: what legal possibilities does the Minister see where it is not possible to make good agreements within a particular sector, for example in terms of prices or the maintenance of companies or entrepreneurs that we would like to maintain? What legal possibilities are there? If we can't hear it tonight, I'd like to see an additional letter in the next week. What legal possibilities are there now, also to prevent one farmer from making good agreements and the other one not, and one catering business is still standing, with the support of the brewery, and the other not? We shouldn't want that kind of inequality. I would like to see in a letter what legal possibilities exist, including as a kind of crisis measure, to enforce good agreements within sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u555	I do not intend to apply these possibilities now. There's a Price Act, there's a Distribution Act. Those are all things that can just be found on the web. This isn't happening right now. We are talking about a good conversation and that good conversation has already produced a lot on some points. We need to practice that with each other. It is a new situation, an extraordinary economic situation, and that fits here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u556	It's good that there are those possibilities. About that suggestion to help with staff shortages. All initiatives are now being launched. Diederik Ebbinge is working with a lot of creativezzp'ers on that. All I'm asking is for them to go somewhere. It's a lot of organizational skills, but it's a lot to ask those people to ring the doorbell at a hospital with "can I help?'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u557	Thanks for the suggestion. The SGP calls for attention to be paid to greenhouse horticulture. Seasonal work can come to a standstill due to the dense boundaries. Then how do we solve that? The Ministry of LNV has, of course, very close contact with this sector. Parts of the sector are affected. Other parts do not either, but the travel restrictions do make it more difficult to get people from abroad to do necessary work. And if they're already here, they can't go back to the country of origin, which could be another reason not to come here. The sector also suffers from sick notifications. So that also plays a role. LTO and Glastuinbouw Nederland are engaged in actions. That's what they're in contact with the Ministry of LNV. I see that solutions are found in a fruitful way by the sector itself. There too, in line with what Mr Asscher has just said, there are organized links that have work capacity available that can be used on various jobs. There, too, are infrastructures that we have managed in this beautiful Netherlands to absorb these peaks and valleys. That can also help us in this situation. There is a great deal of attention to the food chain in this first period. Mr Heerma has already mentioned it. Mr Segers then mentioned hoarding in his speech. Mr Van der Staaij has chosen the egg as a template for the functioning of our food industry. But it's a serious question. We've all seen the footage from the supermarkets. I've got two sons who are stockiers. They come home with pictures, too. We've had very extensive contact. The sector really indicates and is convinced that there is more than enough food being produced, in some cases, when it comes to dairy products, even more than we can eat, and that there are more than enough stocks available. I have to say, however, that at least that has not been fully understood by many Dutch people who feel the need to hoard. You can call that subjective. You can also call it a lack of communication. This is perceived as an issue. In contact with industry representatives, it has therefore been agreed that we will also show consumers that there is enough. They are going to communicate specifically about the availability of products in shops, so that consumers no longer tend to take it for granted, but to see that for sure also to the shop. It has also been agreed that they are going to try to ensure that the products that are excessive are also in larger quantities than usual in the shops. In one of the biggest health crises we have ever had, we have communicated excessively much about toilet paper. That is the ultimate part of the food chain. That's the kind of thing the buyer, the consumer, has to see that it's there. The industry is going to make a good effort to do that, because they also see the problem. So that met with understanding. That's important. The cabinet has also chosen to include the food chain in the vital professions. Society must continue to operate, and the food chain is crucial. Parents or caregivers who work there can therefore use that kindergarten. The Minister of IenW reports that in today's Transport Council, which I do not yet know about, the commitment is to give goods and transport professionals free passage in order not to hinder supply chains, and that emergency transport, including food, should be given priority. A further letter was sent by the Central Office for Food Commerce. They have said: well, if we think this is so important to each other, then we also have a few things in which we see that they can be better organised. For example, there are restrictions on window times. There are all kinds of things they ask for. Not everything has advantages, because driving and window times are not for nothing, but here too it is positive that there are proposals. We're gonna set this up in the Cabinet. We must do the same with other sectors and local authorities. There too we will see what it takes to keep everything going. Then about one of the measures. The emergency window is a measure on the part of EZK and is carried out by the National Entrepreneurship Agency of the Netherlands. Mr Krol and Mr Baudet asked about the timing of implementation. For this specific concession, a very simple form has been chosen, namely one lump sum. That is exactly what has been done to make it feasible. This week the team thinks they can say more about the timing. The current way of thinking is that this should be in order within a few weeks. That is important, because that is again about things like the man from the coffee shop who still has his rent, even if he has found a solution for the employees in other arrangements, which my colleague Mr Koolmees is going to talk about later. The Christian Union has talked about the bridging instrument that we have at the Empire, the SMKB. This is a scheme that allows SMEs to borrow money with a public guarantee. It has been considerably expanded and is also open to all coronanods, but he asks whether non-bank financiers can also use that SMEB. And he asks: if you as an SME do not have a credit relationship with a bank, how can you arrange this? I think this is easy. Non-bank financiers can also use the SMEB. Then they'll have to get accredited. So they will, because that will lead to more customers coming to them. If you are an SME and do not have a credit relationship with a bank, you go to a bank and make sure that you get a credit with this guarantee scheme from the government. Then you have a credit relationship with a bank. So I do not think this is the issue. SMEs can be found here. This is also important, because the solution is that there are not only aid measures, which may not all be implemented immediately in a week, but that there are also liquidity measures to bridge the period, i.e. loans with a public guarantee. Finally, Mr Van Haga asks me to look ahead. I would like to say in his direction that I do not want to do that too academically. We have all seen estimates from Rabobank, which may now be considered obsolete. There are all kinds of different estimates from the CPB. An estimate goes a bit like this: when the world changes completely, this comes out and if it changes even worse, it comes out. I don't think that's the kind of thing we can rely on right now. I don't think we should make it an econometric exercise right now. We must keep an eye on the ball, we must ensure that jobs, incomes and activities are maintained, and we must constantly respond to a changing situation. I'm sure that's gonna happen a lot. There'll be more letters. There are undoubtedly still errors in this package. There are still things in there where we see unwanted effects. We're seeing perverse stimuli. We see things that aren't right. We must have underestimated problems. We may have overestimated them here and there. But there's still a lot to be done. In this way, between now and next, we must constantly be vigilant. Every day we have the sector dashboards in the department to see what is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u558	Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u559	Mr Van Haga may first, because this was his point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u560	Yeah, it was about his point. Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u561	Thank you. A brief, enlightening question. Of course, I'm not asking you to look into your glass ball, but as I said earlier, most of the trials end at the bank or at the government. It is very good that you have all put in place an emergency package to cover the entire spectrum, but I was just asking to think about what will happen when we finally get to the banking crisis that may be the result of this whole corona crisis. If you can indicate that you are already thinking about this, you do not need to give a specific answer on how you are going to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u562	Well, then I would like to go a little further, because this is not just being considered; my colleague, the Minister for Finance, will also comment on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u563	The Minister for Economic Affairs also answers the questions about agriculture, I understand. Then the Minister said: our department is well connected to the corona crisis staff, because for that we will have to draw up scenarios, including with regard to animal welfare. The Chamber has not yet seen anything of this, although we do see that animal transport will be restricted and exports will be stopped. This calls for measures to reduce the number of animals we breed, otherwise they will be locked up in those stables. Does the Minister have any idea how these plans are coming about? And is the government's point of departure also that, from animal welfare, we must ensure that we do not create problems in the abattoirs, in the stables or in transport?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u564	If he can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u565	Yes. Now the Chamber has recently asked the Minister for Agriculture about the corona crisis in the light of livestock farming. Because it's one thing to go crazy with roses, but this is about living animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u566	Mrs Ouwehand has already established the relationship between corona and the size of livestock in the debate. She now acts on the relationship between corona and animal welfare. To be honest, I don't have an answer to that. I have not taken this into account sufficiently in the preparation of this debate to enable me to answer that question from her. But I'll pass it on. I will consider this from the cabinet as a reminder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u567	I imagine the Minister doesn't have LNV's plans in place. But I hope that I can ask him about the cabinet's starting point, or that is that we are also trying to limit animal suffering as much as possible in this crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u568	I believe that the Minister of LNV is necessary to choose the right words in such an important matter. Once again, I will pass this on as a reminder and make sure that the Minister of LNV knows that Mrs Ouwehand is still waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u569	Thank you very much. I note that questions about animals are rather sensitive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u570	The support package will help many companies and workers. At the same time, the Minister has already indicated that, as Members of Parliament, we are of course also aware of the fact that there are always people and companies who say: what a pity that I was just not thought of. Are these signals well filtered in the next few days? And does that possibly also lead to additions to the package?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u571	Yes. I think we need to be sure that this package will have to be adjusted in a variety of respects. There are, of course, parties that are somehow not served by this. It may also be that the regulations stand in the way. Here and there, it falls short. Here and there it's exaggerated. And like I said, I'm sure there's still some mistakes in it. I was shot yesterday by someone who gave a certain type of training. He said, "I have a governance form, a corporate form that just doesn't belong to your SMEB." I'll take that home with me. "Home" is the department now, and that's being studied. We must therefore be receptive to signals from all these different sectors. We may find out that we can't solve all the problems. But let's focus on the problems we can solve. Those signals keep coming through.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u572	In the context of "love for each other," D66 and 50PLUS had a proposal yesterday to create a special elder hour at supermarkets, because many elderly and other vulnerable groups are now very excited to shop at times when it is very busy. We saw that a lot of supermarkets and also the Prime Minister yesterday responded positively to that proposal to organise such a special hour. I would like to ask the Minister if, if he does consult with the industry organisations, he can check with the big supermarkets in the Netherlands to see if they can create such a special hour a day for vulnerable groups so that they can also do their shopping.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u573	I've got one spare. I am often asked to bring a sympathetic or a good idea to the attention of the parties themselves. Actually, I'm always happy to do that. I don't mind being a messenger at all. But there is one point I want to be very strict about: I am not the epidemiologist, nor the amateur epidemiologist. I stick to the statements made by my colleague, Mr Bruins, who, after political weighting and whatever weighting, is based on what the specialists say. If I don't have an objective reason to think this is important to health, I don't want to sell it that way either. Then I'm guilty of hobbyism. I think that the sympathy of the various speakers here in the Chamber, but also of the Prime Minister, will have been best received by these companies. As soon as it is about health and it has an interest that I can have anything to do with or on which I can influence, I would like to make a particular effort to do so. But then I'm going for objective signals. Otherwise, I'm gonna be some kind of hobby doctor. I do that at home, but not at work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u574	The Minister should not do that either, becoming a hobby doctor. That is what we are all trying to limit ourselves to a great deal here in the Chamber. But this is not just about public health measures. It is also about preventing loneliness in older people and other vulnerable groups who now feel that they should stay inside for weeks and cannot do anything themselves. Fortunately, there are a lot of neighbors who do errands for people, but if the Minister would like to convey this sympathetic idea, he does not have to force it, he makes Mr Krol and Mr Jetten very happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u575	I found a hook! Because now it's not a health call. Yeah, hold on, now we're getting there. As long as it goes neatly. Now I hear that older customers might feel more comfortable if it isn't busy in the shop at the time, and I'll bring this service aspect to the attention of the industry. Well, now we've done it. But I still think this is the way it's supposed to go. Thanks for the suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u576	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u577	Thank you, Madam President. It's been a long time, so I'm gonna make it quick. Yesterday we presented a big package. The Minister for Economic Affairs was just talking about liquidity; in my area, there is a great deal of compensation for costs or income. Several groups have asked me whether I can say something about the speed with which people get their money. That was Mr Krol, Mr Veldman, Mr Van Haga and Mr Kuzu, and also Mr Asscher, I believe, and Mr Klaver... Well, almost everyone. I am going to say something about compensation for wage costs and the scheme for self-employed workers. Both regulations are currently being worked very, very, very hard by employees of the Ministry of Social Affairs, by municipalities and by employees of the UWV. There's actually three steps. The first step is the development of the system, its preparation and its opening up. That's what we're doing right now. When that is done, the window will open and companies andzzp'ers can apply. Subsequently, the UWV and the municipalities can be paid out respectively. But we are now at the first step, namely to make the regulation and to clarify it as soon as possible, so that people know what they are entitled to. However, we have taken into account the most important element, namely that people get their money as soon as possible. But since the Minister for Economic Affairs and also the Tax Administration have announced liquidity measures, so that people do not have to pay taxes, there is now some liquidity and we have a few weeks to implement this properly. I also told people at the press conference yesterday: do not report to the municipal office or to the UWV tomorrow, because we have to work out the scheme first; only then can the window be opened. I would like to repeat that again today. We are here making arrangements that normally take us seven or eight months, pounding out of the ground in one or one and a half weeks. So it is going very quickly, but it must continue to be done carefully. We are now working very hard on this with these different organisations. It is important to note that both schemes will enter into force on 1 March 2020 and can therefore lead to a concession in March. This applies to both wage costs andzzp'ers. I think that's reassuring for companies andzzp'ers. Mr Kuzu asked if the municipalities could handle the implementation. We are in close contact with the municipalities. Local authorities are already receiving a great deal of help from entrepreneurs. They make every effort to help self-employed people as quickly and as effectively as possible. That is why it is also important that we allow this arrangement to enter into force on 1 March, so that we can buy some rest and make sure that people know that they are entitled to this benefit from 1 March. So wait for further notice. Wait for the publication of the scheme and only then report to the counter, because then we can also prepare the UWV and the municipalities to deal with the requests as soon as possible. Once again, it is a very complex system of implementation. We are talking about 80,000 companies that have applied for the 800 000 workers scheme. There is also a very large group of self-employed people without staff. So it has to be put down properly, otherwise it will be chaos. So just give us a minute. We are working very hard day and night, even last weekend, to do this. Mr Kuzu asked about the period. We actually put a package for three months in yesterday's letter, with the possibility of an extension of three months. This has also been done for implementation reasons, so you buy relative rest for a period of three months. Mrs Ouwehand and Mr Hijink asked why the new scheme for self-employed workers is based on the social minimum rather than the wml. We have greatly simplified and simplified the scheme in order to carry it out properly, so no power test, no partner test, no test on the viability of the company, just to deliver the money to the self-employed as soon as possible. People also have to pay the rent and do groceries. That is why we are joining the social minimum. Other people, for example people who have to call for assistance because they do not have WW rights, get that amount too. It would be weird if you made a distinction in that. That is why we have based it on the social minimum. Moreover, there is a second part of the scheme. This is a business capital loan for entrepreneurs. It becomes clear when the scheme is published. Mr Asscher, as well as Mrs Ouwehand and Mr Hijink, have asked questions about call forces and people with flex or zero hours contracts. Mr Wiebes and I do not know what day it was, but I think we had talks with Hans de Boer and Han Busker on Monday. The Labor Foundation had sent a letter calling explicitly for people with a flex or zero-hour contract to benefit from the support measures. In the scheme we have created for wage costs, there is therefore the possibility to compensate people with a flex or zero-hour contract, based on the idea that companies can just leave people on the payroll and continue to pay. That doesn't mean it's gonna be okay automatically. The social partners have called for this. Both employers and employees, including VNO-NCW, SMEs-Netherlands and LTO, have called on employers to do so. But we also see examples of people who simply no longer have contracts, not only for self-employed people, but also for temporary workers and for zero-hour contracts. We try to detach the offices that are at the municipality, or at the UWV if people have WW rights, as soon as possible, I'll say, to help people as quickly as possible. Unfortunately, it is. The call from the social partners and also my appeal to companies is: "We compensate for a very large proportion of your wage costs, i.e. 90%. Therefore, make sure that you keep the flexible forces that always work for you neatly on the payroll. You will be compensated for the costs, so just pay them." That's my call tonight. And if that does not happen, then we will be ready with various regulations as back-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u578	I would like to know more about the latter, because then it is still the case that the employers pay 10% of wage costs. If your company's all over the place, I can imagine that's still a reason for entrepreneurs to say, "You know what? I'm not calling these people. They don't make hours. Then I don't have to pay." So the question is: why wasn't the variant chosen, for example, in which this group could use the same scheme as thezzp'ers? Well, at least they always have something. And what legal possibility is there, apart from a call, to ensure that this group does not fall apart?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u579	In answer to the first question: there is always something. For this reason, the social minimum has also been chosen in the scheme forzzp'ers. This is, of course, always available, even for people who have not built up any work history and therefore have not built up any WW rights. We also have the assistance in the Netherlands, for everyone. Of course, for people who have built up a work history and have built up WW rights, a wage-related benefit applies for a period of time. But again, the commitment of the social partners and of myself is to let people who were just on the payroll in January of February benefit from this arrangement, so that the contract can, as it were, just walk through. That's what it's based on. That's what that 90% is based on. That is also the replacement of the reduction of working time. This represents 70% of labour costs. That was also not a pay-by-pay obligation. This scheme includes a payment obligation, but also a higher compensation of 90%. This also makes it a very generous scheme, which really aims to preserve jobs, pay wages and cater to entrepreneurs, in addition to all the guarantee schemes and liquidity schemes that exist, and in addition to all the schemes available at the Tax Office, such as not having to pay taxes. In doing so, we want to help entrepreneurs through this difficult time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u580	Yeah, but a caller doesn't have as much to do with a pay-by-pay obligation as he doesn't get called in. So if there is no job and the entrepreneur in question chooses not to call someone, where is this employee? Does that mean he's got somewhere to go? Is there another arrangement?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u581	That's exactly what I've been trying to explain, but apparently not good enough. If a person's zero-hour contract or flex contract expires and he simply worked in January or February, then it is part of the basis for wage costs. If the employer simply keeps this person on the payroll and pays the salary, it will be compensated. All employees in the catering industry, for example, now have no work because the restaurant tent, the museum or the stage is closed. So all employees do not have a job and all employees are compensated for the costs, including those with a flex contract. It's meant to be, but I can't guarantee it. That is why we also have a safety net in other areas, but I hope that employers will also take the call of social partners seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u582	I hope so too, and if it is not, then there may be opportunities to do so more terms and conditions. But I would actually like to make another point. Today we have received documents for the expenditure that goes with it, more than 10 billion on Mr Koolmees' budget alone. In the meantime, Mr President, I have requested a separate debate on all these economic aspects. I have the impression that it could be good, also for the quality of the debate and the fatigue of the rulers, to discuss most of these economic issues separately next week, because it affects a lot of people and has enormous significance and huge budgetary implications. In fact, it does not fit in with this debate, which is also very much about the pandemic strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u583	Mr President, I shall leave the order to you, and you have asked me questions today which I am trying to answer. If you say "go home," I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u584	We have seen a bit of a strange course of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u585	Yes, I understand. I agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u586	It's very important issues for an incredible lot of people. My suggestion would be to talk about this separately next week if we were to call the Chamber again instead of raving it off now with potentially very serious consequences for people, but I leave it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u587	I would prefer to answer the questions that have been asked, because we still have so much work to do with each other to get the regulations in place and to get them into operation and to make sure that they still work. So that's my preference, but I'm like laundry in your hands, as you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u588	It is also my preference to complete this response now. I understand Mr Asscher's question, but my counter-proposal would be as follows. Let the cabinet now work out and implement these arrangements and then let us send a letter about progress in a few weeks' time. Then we can go into this in more detail in a note-taking meeting or in an AO. That would be my proposal, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u589	My proposal is that we do not have an arrangement at nine o'clock in the evening. It is important to agree on Mr Asscher's proposal. Then we'll see what's the right time to talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u590	Fine, Mr. Chairman. I will make this order proposal together with Mr Asscher and otherwise via an e-mail procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u591	Good. Then I suggest that you only answer those questions that have been asked here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u592	Then I come to the question by Mr Klaver, Mrs Ouwehand, Mr Asscher and, in my view, Mr Segers on the food bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u593	On the previous point, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u594	Very briefly about the zero-hour contracts, because I do not think we have much time to wait. First of all, a great deal of appreciation for the scheme that has been rigged. It's very clear, too. Employers are paid 90% of their wages. So that means you can just pay off your zero-hour contractors. My question is this. If that doesn't happen to someone who's employed at such a catering establishment, what can he do as an individual?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u595	As an individual, you can always report to the UWV if you have a working history and have thus acquired WW rights for a WW benefit, or with the municipality when it comes to a welfare allowance. That's always the possibility anyway. There was also a big cut. Unemployment was the lowest in 20, 30 years before this crisis. So I hope that employers will also think in the longer term rather than just in the short term, and that they will also commit people and therefore want to pay them back. And they're paid 90% for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u596	I understand. It would be scandalous if employers didn't. If that does happen, I can imagine that it may not be clear tonight, then it would be very good if people knew where to report that their business is not working and that this company is being called upon to do so. There's a reason they get that money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u597	They won't get the money. If you will allow it, Mr President, my focus is now really on getting these schemes up and running and paying them. That's where my biggest focus is. That is also the most important thing for those entrepreneurs. That's what I'm focusing on. Every time there's new ideas coming, we're gonna take them and we're gonna look at them. Next Thursday we will have discussions with trade unions and employers' organisations to pick up those signals again. But if you don't mind, I just want to get on with the broad lines, because there's still a lot to be done. We'll keep an eye on this, but I can't talk to individual companies. I just can't. There are too many companies for this and the conditions are too uncertain.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u598	I understand that, but I'm talking about a group of about 300,000 people, according to our estimate, who might be affected by this. I understand very well that it has to be up and running and I understand that perhaps more will go wrong when it is introduced than will go well. That's all part of it, because we're trying to bake a cake here in five minutes, including battering, so I get it, but still. This is about a group of over 300,000 people, so that's a lot. Those people just need an income. That is why I am calling so explicitly for attention to be paid to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u599	I agree. That is why we have drawn up this regulation. That's why it's so simple. Therefore, these costs are also eligible for compensation. That's exactly the point. I can't guarantee anything with that, unfortunately. I wish I could, but I just can't make it happen. Then I'd make a good ornament here with fine words, when I can't. That's how realistic I want to be today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u600	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u601	I was at the food banks. Several Members of Parliament have asked questions about this. This signal is also taken very seriously by the cabinet. It is precisely the most vulnerable groups in our society that should not be hit harder in these times. The main problem facing the food banks is that many older volunteers, in particular, do not want to come to the food bank because of the risks of contamination, which means that the work cannot continue. I understand that very well. The consequence is that several distribution centres and food banks are no longer able to provide support to their customers. A solution to the problem of food banks will have to be found. The Secretary of State for Social Affairs, Tamara van Ark, is in contact with Food Banks Netherlands. An action team has also been set up, in which Social Affairs, LNV, the Association of Dutch Municipalities and Food Banks, participate, to develop scenarios, not per week, but per day, to see what the state of affairs is at the various food banks in the Netherlands. So we are on top of this, together with the foundation Foodbanken Nederland and the municipalities. There is also a great deal of attention in your Chamber to the possibility of increasing the number of volunteers. For example, a recruitment campaign is envisaged. This is a sympathetic thought. Fortunately, a lot of young volunteers come forward who want to participate. Please report to the local food bank. The deficits are really not in his hands, but in the people who are familiar with the system of distribution. So it takes some time, but if you want to be active, please. Report to the local food bank, because there really is a need for alternatives for the people who normally do it, but who are now, rightly, a little anxious for the coronavirus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u602	Did you answer all the questions with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u603	Two more, if you don't mind. Mr Hijink and Mr Segers asked about the homeless. The Ministry of Health, the Secretary of State of VWS, has identified what is needed for this group at this time. Municipalities and providers are actively working to make the necessary arrangements. There is daily consultation with the parties. We are providing support where necessary, because this group must not suffer from this crisis either. Secretary of State Blokhuis is on top of that. He's in touch every day. What measures does the Cabinet take when closing households' utilities in case of late payment? I think that was an explicit question from Mr Hijink. For electricity and gas, in the winter period, until 1 April, no one is shut down. That was an existing arrangement. In the remaining months, people using debt relief are not closed. In any case, in these subjects, the homeless, food banks and people's places of residence, we are following them very closely. All colleagues, Tamara van Ark, Paul Blokhuis, are looking at the most vulnerable groups at the moment and really keep their finger on the pulse. We also had some contact with Tamara van Ark and Hugo de Jonge about the question about Safe Home. We're holding the finger on the wrist. We're all on top of it to keep people from falling apart. That was it on this point. Then there is a final question from Mr Segers on the payment of childcare costs. We advise parents to continue to pay the child care bill for three reasons. 1. Parents retain their right to childcare allowance. 2. Parents keep a place at day care. 3. The childcare sector is currently crucial in the care of parents working in health care, for example. So continuity must also be guaranteed. All invoices go through. All funding is ongoing. I understand that we ask a lot of parents to keep paying the bill, while sometimes they do not have the income themselves or the income falls sharply back. At the same time, it is crucial that infrastructure is maintained. For this reason, too, care allowances and such things continue to exist, precisely in order to increase the continuity of the sector, precisely when parents need them to work in health care, for example. I would like to draw your attention to the whole list of crucial professions published last Monday or Sunday. Mr. Chairman. That's it for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u604	Several questions have been answered from me, but I would just like to comment specifically on two answers. This concerns first of all the food bank. There's a shortage of volunteers there. So there is an initiative #not only. That is a very large storage tank and it is really tens of thousands if not hundreds of thousands of people who are available and available. A kind of task force has already been formed when it comes to the food banks. I would like to draw your attention to this initiative. So if the Minister would like to pass that on, then thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u605	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u606	And I would also point out the suggestion that in the case of food that is now in danger of going crazy, think about fishermen, think about what restaurants have to connect with food banks. Those are my two questions when it comes to the food banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u607	I would like to give both signals to Tamara van Ark, who is in this task force with the municipalities to pull that off.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u608	My second question concerns the removal of people with, for example, rent disadvantages. We may almost end up in this case, but an example of a family that has now ended up in misery with the mother-in-law, who has just had surgery and is in the vulnerable target group, has just been presented to me. I find that really insufferable. I think it's also something I might be able to present behind the scenes. If there can be a commitment here that in this precarious situation, in this time of crisis, we are not going to put people out on the street, then at least in a general sense I am reassured.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u609	What I can say anyway is that most housing corporations indicate that they want to be generous in these times when it comes to lagging behind. Aedes, the dome of housing corporations, and the Woonbond have made agreements on the rent discount for people with structural financial problems. That too is of course part of this. Then customisation is applied either by means of freezing or by means of a rental discount. So that sector also has an eye for this. At the same time, of course, there are examples where things go wrong. I believe that Mr Jetten gave an example of this. If there are any signals, please pass them on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u610	In these times when we ask people to look at each other, it is true that a measure taken by the Cabinet, namely the cost-sharing standard, does not allow people to look at each other. I would like to ask the Minister whether it is possible, in these times of crisis, in which we are making a very strong appeal to people to look at each other, to put that cost sharing standard temporarily on hold.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u611	I can't see that. I don't want to promise you that either. I'm willing to dive in, but I can't just admit it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u612	I understand the Minister can't do it out of the loose wrist. But if he wants to put it on his list and come back to it in writing at some point, very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u613	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u614	Deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u615	I'm not quite sure I heard it right. The Minister spoke just now about the arrangement in force in the winter months, with no gas, water and electricity being shut off. I would like to check whether he has also said that we are not going to do that now, that this arrangement is now in place. Or didn't he promise? And if it isn't, I'd like to suggest that we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u616	I don't know if it is. We're gonna take a look at it. We'll keep our finger on the wrist there, too. I can't see what that means. The law is now that it doesn't happen in the winter months anyway. And people with debt relief aren't getting shut down anyway. That's the arrangement that's in place right now. I'm gonna dive in there. But that's all I can promise right now. Then we really need to dive deeper into this arrangement. We're holding the finger on the wrist. I already told you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u617	I think it's very good to keep the finger on the wrist. However, I would like to hear from the Cabinet in the coming weeks, it is not necessary in the extremely short term, whether the regulation currently in force for the winter can be extended, despite the fact that it is almost summertime. Of course, this other arrangement, for people in debt relief, goes on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u618	I would like to say that I will return to that, just like the promise to Mr Kuzu just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u619	I would like to come to the point of thezzp'ers and the dga's: the owners of small and medium-sized enterprises, SMEs. We're a bit of a party for that group, too. I am now getting a lot of messages from people who say: okay, some of our employees may be taken care of, but we are just threatening to go down. Fixed charges run through and revenues are not or are hardly compensated. I know that it is partly Mr Wiebes, but of course it is also with you. I was wondering, aren't there any opportunities to do more for that group? Even if it is only speeding up all the procedures, so that at least people can see something. In March, many people will be unable to pay wages, but not at all in April. Has everything been done to speed up procedures?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u620	The total package of course consists of several elements. First of all, that's liquidity. This concerns the SME scheme and the JV scheme. These are guarantee schemes that allow entrepreneurs to apply to the bank for short-term loans. This concerns liquidity. The second liquidity point is taxation: payroll tax, income tax, corporation tax and sales tax. You don't have to pay it this month. You can move that forward. The Secretary of State for Finance has said: interest rates go to 0.01%. So you have to pay later, but you don't have to pay now, leaving liquidity in the companies. This allows you to pay the rent, leases and other charges. The third element is the allowance of 90% of wage costs. It takes a little longer for us to have that in the companies, because we first have to make an arrangement and implement it. We are talking about a lot of companies and a lot of employees. It'll just take a few weeks. The combination of these three schemes, i.e. liquidity through the guarantee schemes, liquidity through taxation and cost meet-up for wage costs, allows companies to go crazy. As a last resort, I pointed out to Mr Wiebes........................................................................................................................................................................................................ This concerns the €4,000 from Mr Wiebes' fund. This is some kind of backup. The total package is of course massive for entrepreneurs. It is really meant to go crazy in the coming months, to keep jobs, to be able to pay wages and to accommodate entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u621	Is there any prospect within the Cabinet of the deadline for this third aspect to be achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u622	That's what you're talking about, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u623	Yes. And is there also a view in the cabinet on how long this package can last? What is your view on when we will be out of this inhibition or partial lockdown again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u624	I have just said in my introduction that there are three steps. The arrangement is now being worked out, as we speak. There are people at work now. It will be published as soon as possible. Then the window opens. Then we're gonna pay off as fast as we can. That will have to go in batches, because there are 70,000 to 80,000 companies that have applied for it, so it just takes a few weeks. It's gonna take a couple of weeks. For that, we have these other arrangements, these liquidity arrangements, to really help companies through the worst crisis at the moment. Your second question is: how long will this take? Of course, we don't know that. What we did do is this. Most schemes apply for three months, with the possibility of extending for another three months. So that's six months in total. When those six months are over, we'll have to see what the situation is. The Minister of Finance will be discussing this shortly. But the first three months have now been announced. The last thing I want to say is that they will be implemented on 1 March 2020, if that is what you want. It is precisely because some companies are already facing a partial or total loss of turnover at the beginning of March or 15 March. The catering industry is just close from March 15th, for example. So there is no turnover at all. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u625	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u626	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you for the very broad support in the Chamber for the whole financial and economic package. That package is huge and it was, among other things, Mr Heerma who asked: can we carry it and how long can we keep it going? That is in line with the question that Mr Baudet has just asked. The answer starts with the fact that we, as a cabinet, have been able to invest very heavily in society in recent years, but that we were also in the fortunate situation of getting public finances in order, because the economy was doing very well. Although it went a little less well every year than the year before, there were and there are still a lot of Dutch people at work. That means that there's just been a lot of money coming in over the past five, six years. So yes, we can carry that package. Koolmeis said we could extend the package one more time. But I must also be honest in saying that this is of course only part of the budgetary damage we are going to suffer. We are going to spend this money, and we now have a range of 10 to 20 billion in the budget, but we all understand that the more companies use it, the greater the weight of the schemes. In addition, the economy and therefore the budget on the revenue side will, of course, suffer very serious damage, because there is simply much less economic activity. So I think we should be so honest as to say that for society, for the economy and also for the treasury, this is really the beginning of the beginning. It's really gonna be "seat belts" in the next period. Following on from Mr Heerma's second question, we have the ability to sing this out for at least another three months and, if necessary, even longer. But we will always have to consider whether we should change the guidelines in terms of measures. I think I have answered Mr Baudet's question. I think that is also true of Mr Van Haga's question about how we do after the first three months. Mr. Chairman. Mr Heerma and I also believe Mr Veldman and Mr Kuzu asked about the feasibility of the Tax Administration. We took all these arrangements for granted before we sent them to the Chamber to see if they were enforceable. It is right that Members should refer to the troubles in the Tax Administration and also ask that question. Generally speaking, we are talking about relatively simple measures, but I would add that we are therefore also choosing not to have the Tax Phone called. We communicate in writing for the simple reason that a lot of the people at the Tax Office are also involved with all the coronaperikelen. There too there is a disease, there is also people who basically have to work at home. So we're trying to solve it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u627	Then it is also possible to choose a different route. Instead of having companies apply, it is also possible that, on the basis of the data in February 2020, in which they have also been informed of what these wage costs are, the Tax Administration will automatically compensate if a reduction in working hours has been applied for. Why not choose that route?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u628	We've been looking at all these variants. Of course, we try to do as much speed as we can. We also try to do it carefully and we have looked very strongly at all kinds of versions. We have said of this: this offers the greatest chance of success in that triangle. I understand the question very well, we have also looked at it, but we think that this is more sensible and offers a greater chance of success to ensure that entrepreneurs get through this difficult phase. Mr. Chairman. Mr Krol asked for a postponement of the reporting deadline for individuals. He is, I understand, concerned about those who are dependent on declaration assistance when making their private declaration. For the record, that is less than 1% of the total number of declarations. We do not yet have any signs that there will be any problems, but I agree with Mr Krol that we will continue to monitor this. If it is necessary to intervene in it or to exercise coulance, we will just look at it, but fortunately it does not seem necessary at the moment. Mr Krol asked whether the amount to pay without contact could not be increased from €25 to, for example, €100. I understand his question in such a way that he wants to prevent people from being infected by the ATM. At least that's how I thought I could understand it. For the record, I also choose the Wiebes line of the RIVM to indicate whether the risk of infection is high or low. RIVM indicates that contamination by touching products or surfaces is very small. At the same time, I understand that this is also about a wish that is wider in society. Banks have already indicated themselves to look into this and to investigate whether they can adjust the limit on contactless payments. Both on this subject and on the issue of mortgages and on the subject raised by Mr Van Haga, namely buffers, I shall have another discussion with the banks tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u629	Some of my constituents simply have trouble arriving at the supermarket suddenly not being able to bring cash, because some supermarkets are not accepting that now, and my question is: can you investigate whether banknotes and coins are a transmitter of the virus or whether we should still allow the elderly to just pay in cash?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u630	The RIVM's view is that the risk of contamination by touching products such as banknotes or coins is very small, because that virus cannot survive well outside the body. So I would like to use the RIVM to remove some of these concerns. In any case, I have often had an exchange of views with the financial spokesmen on this subject.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There is therefore no need to introduce some sort of temporary ban on cash from a medical point of view. There is, therefore, and will remain, the possibility that Mr Krol has outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u631	Mr Hoekstra just made a comment about buffers in combination with my name, but I wonder if that was the answer to my suggestion to do something with mortgages and redemption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u632	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u633	Okay. He's gonna be here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u634	No, I just wanted to do everything in my power to answer Mr Krol's question. It was specifically about this part of the responsibility that banks could take. Then I took those things together to indicate that I'm going to talk about that tomorrow. But let me take Mr Van Haga's question with me right now. I very much see the point he is touching, namely: could it not be that people with a mortgage also get into trouble as a result of this crisis? There are a few things to say about that. One is that the whole package that we have now proclaimed, of course, also protects people with a mortgage to a very important extent. When you reduce working hours, you just keep 100% of your salary. We've just been going over what's getting ready forzzp'ers and others. So the assumption is that the majority of the population will not get into any problems with the mortgage. That's one. Two is: it is, of course, only partly indicative, but also in the previous crisis, fortunately, problems with mortgages have been relatively limited. But three is the following: I say this in particular to reassure you of Mr Van Haga's justified question. Banks will, of course, see this, and we will discuss it tomorrow. I do not want to anticipate it, but I also feel the willingness to see what can be done about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u635	The suggestion, of course, was mainly about the repayment obligation. It's nice if you could take that with you tomorrow. As I said earlier, ABN AMRO has already announced something, but for individuals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u636	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u637	It would be nice if this repayment obligation could be discussed both for individuals and for companies, because that might be a very cheap way of getting more liquidity into the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u638	Yes, and ABN AMRO did, I believe, during this debate, so I just saw a piece of the message come in. I'll talk to the banks about that tomorrow. It is most obvious to choose customization here, because most of society's mortgages are likely to be able to move forward in the coming period. But just the cases that get into trouble, you would like to facilitate. That's one of the discussions with the banks tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u639	Perhaps I should make the suggestion very briefly that this should apply to everyone, because liquidity will be greatly increased if you set up a generic arrangement whereby you do not have to pay the debt for ten years, but let us say: for a six-month period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u640	There are also huge disadvantages, because that means that you are going to create something that means that a lot of people who cannot possibly get into trouble given the cabinet package are going to face a whole lot of paperwork and then apply for a postponement of their mortgage, which also has all kinds of effects on the banks. I'm going to discuss it tomorrow, but now it seems the most sensible thing to do is to see that, where necessary, the people who get into trouble are being served by the banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u641	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u642	I propose that after that consultation I inform the Chamber of the outcome of that consultation. I think that'll be Friday. Maybe we can do it tomorrow. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Van Haga also asked how we would prevent an SME crisis from arising. So he formulated it and turned it back into a monetary crisis. That is an important point of attention. I would like to point out clearly to the Chamber that we are well on our way, but that banks really are much better off than they are before the banking crisis. They are also much wider than the instruments and possibilities we have to ensure that they do not get into trouble. They're not perfect. There is still a lot of work to be done in the area of the Banking Union in Europe, but it is much better than it was. I have answered Mr Van Haga's question with the comparison with France. I would like to say, in the direction of the Animal Party, that saving companies............................................................................................................................................................................................ Those arrangements are for all of them. But it goes without saying that infrastructure such as Schiphol, such as Air France-KLM, is vital to the entire Dutch economy for a country as connected to the rest of the world as the Netherlands, apart from the approximately 40,000 people who work there. Mr President, I think I am through the questions that have come to my attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u643	I have a general question for the Minister of Finance. Does he not think with me that now is the time to set priorities and all these climate plans, at least temporarily, we hope that there will also be a delay, but we can still suspend our opinions on differences and give priority to our SMEs, to thezzp'ers, to the people with a rental house, to the people with a merchant house who may not be able to pay the mortgage anymore, to all those Dutch people with real and acute economic and financial concerns? Shouldn't we say as the Netherlands, as the government, as the government of the country: we're gonna stop with all these bullshit windmills, all these shit solar panels, and we're gonna focus on the real economy for a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u644	I think every time is a good time to set priorities. That is, of course, particularly true now. I must add, however, that the appreciation of what is happening in the climate and the need for action in the cabinet is really different from that of Mr Baudet. So we will continue on the path we have taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u645	Anyway, you can only spend every euro once. Priority is important, at least we agree on that. If you can choose over the next few months between taking even more money from the economy for all kinds of vague projects and sustainability issues that might, possibly, in 30 years' time, bring about 0.007°C less warming, or supporting those small or medium-sized companies that otherwise fall over, what would you rather do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u646	Of course, the cabinet is eager to discuss the climate again with Mr Baudet, but here we really are doing this package and we will not abandon many of the good, sensible intentions that we also have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u647	That's not an answer to the question, is it? Try again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u648	Mr President, it really was an answer to the question, in my view. But I'll leave the order to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u649	There are just tens of billions in the state budget going to all possible subsidy schemes for totally non-real or non-profitable or, in any case, non-viable abstract sustainability projects. We can now decide, at least temporarily, to allow that money to benefit all those entrepreneurs who all feel very directly what the result of the partial lockdown is. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u650	The rich budget is about 300 billion large. I would like to see where these tens of billions of projects stand, because I do not recognize that number.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u651	We can go through this: ODE, SDE, the SDE+ schemes and all of them. But also, for example, the Invest-NL Fund, which focuses specifically on sustainability. We could say, "Listen, we're gonna start by keeping our own economy in the air for a while." We could do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u652	Just to put this in perspective. Mr Baudet knows with me that the scope of Invest-NL is wider than he describes. But it's about 1.7 billion dollars and it's a revolver fund. So that's not tens of billions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u653	No, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u654	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u655	The last question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u656	As you may notice, the Minister of Finance dives away every time. I make a list of all kinds of things, all kinds of subsidy schemes. I also mention the Invest-NL fund, along with countless other things. Then he goes into one particle: "But that's not tens of billions." I know, that's not tens of billions. The total amounts involved are large, many billions. So we could choose to temporarily suspend all these sustainability plans and make them directly benefit the people who are now in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u657	I'm tasting a certain amount of metal fatigue in your chamber, which is why I limited it to the last example. I could also indicate exactly how much there is in SDE. I could take it all together and I wouldn't get to 10 billion. But I don't think that's appropriate. I think I should refer to my previous reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u658	Then I'll go to Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u659	Who has an exact opposite question. I had asked the cabinet to take these economic measures as a starting point: helping people who lose their jobs, who lose their income.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u660	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u661	Keeping companies up? Yes, but in the light of the challenges that lie on our plate. The question is simple: is the cabinet prepared to do so? I am a little shocked that the finance minister immediately says 'yes, but Schiphol and KLM are super important'. In my view, they should also change and the climate targets and other challenges in the cabinet should be reflected in the further development of these economic measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u662	From her political point of view, too, I understand Mrs Ouwehand's question. But I believe that the whole debate and the whole press conference yesterday were marked by the fact that the cabinet is primarily about Dutch jobs: tens of thousands of jobs and perhaps hundreds of thousands of jobs in the Netherlands. They're just our people. In addition, it concerns companies from very small, zpp'ers and entrepreneurs with a few people employed, to very large companies. But I would really like to distance myself from the suggestion that the jobs that are filled by very large companies by our people actually count less. 'Cause they count just as much. I know that there is a discussion that is also being held about, for example, Schiphol. And yes, sustainability is a very relevant fact. It is now and it will remain. But that does not alter the need to protect and safeguard that vital importance for the economy and the vital importance for those people themselves. That I've been trying to say what I've been trying to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u663	My point is that these jobs must be preserved, but they must most probably be found and created elsewhere in our economy, with sustainable investment. Those jobs remain, but perhaps not all at KLM and Schiphol. I'm asking the Cabinet to just look further ahead. We need to invest. We have to help the people who lose their jobs. There must be a new perspective in the economy, which is also sustainable in the longer term, given the other crises.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u664	The fact that we will have to shape the economy in a different way and that we will have to move towards an economy in which all kinds of other forms of productivity become important, quite different from, for example, the 1980s or the 1990s, is quite clear. The cabinet has committed itself to this in all kinds of ways. But now it's pumping or drowning for a lot of people in the country. This is really just the beginning of the beginning, and it's just all hands on deck. So it seems perfectly legitimate to me that the Cabinet should now make every effort to protect these jobs and to ensure that there is money for entrepreneurs, so that we can all get through this very difficult phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u665	Mrs. Ouwehand, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u666	Finally, there is no misunderstanding. We are really asking about investment, because we are indeed not done with this today. When I look at what it takes to get our economy back on track, I simply ask the cabinet: keep the other crises in mind too, because it would be very foolish to invest now in economic activities that will have to change in the future. That's the simple call.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u667	Perhaps I am too optimistic, but I believe that Mrs Ouwehand and I have understood each other. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u668	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u669	Thank you, Mr President. For my part, too, the hope that Minister Bruno Bruins will soon get better and rest well. We cannot always agree with each other, but of course he must be healthy and active, so much better. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the cabinet is still not on the right track, quite the contrary. There is still no lockdown; perhaps later, the Prime Minister says, but not now. A short repetition: waiting every second is too much and can be the difference between sick and not sick or between life and death for people. The group immunity may not be an objective of policy, as the Prime Minister said, okay, I believe that of him, but it is also unacceptable as a means. It's unproven bullshit. It has been dissuaded by the World Health Organisation, and many experts around the world say don't; we shouldn't experiment with people, so don't. Mr. Chairman. Hence a motion on that lockdown. Start with that for a few months, and use that time to look at and see where people are sick, and to make sure that care is better in order. After that time, better treatment methods may also be visible. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to announce a lockdown for the whole of the Netherlands for a period of four weeks in order to avoid as much contact as possible between people as possible and thus to prevent new infections,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-151]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u670	Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u671	In the first term it was also about the question: what is a lockdown? Actually, we already have some kind of partial lockdown. So what additional measures is Mr Wilders asking for here? I think that is important for the assessment of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u672	So I ask that we do what most other countries do, which also come close to a lockdown or even a lockdown. Firstly, it is about closing our borders. Moreover, I saw that part of the cabinet is going to do this for the people outside the European Union as from tomorrow, but that is what we want to do for the people within the European Union as well. I think we should also close down the non-essential shops and businesses. I think that is very necessary. We must also ensure that people do not make more than the necessary movements, so when it comes to groceries, pharmacists and other things. That is also what you see in many other countries. We're not getting anywhere near that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u673	Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u674	Thank you for that answer. If I understand correctly, this motion is actually asking for two very concrete measures from the cabinet. One: close the Dutch borders. The second is: close all non-essential shops. Those are actually the two additional matters that are being asked of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u675	And make sure that people don't make any more moves than on their way to the hospital, the pharmacy or the groceries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u676	Does that mean, for example, for families: no walks in the forest if you go there by car? Does that mean: not with the children on the street to play within their own circle? Does that really mean staying all the way in? Because that is a very far-reaching proposal to submit it here at 9:45 a.m. per motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u677	Well, I'd like to do it at 8:45 or 10:45, but that's my proposal. My proposal is exactly as I have just said: that is allowed and the rest is not, for a short time, to ensure that we limit the virus as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u678	Mr Hijink, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u679	Mr Wilders is now saying that this should take four weeks. So what's the idea of what we've done with that after those four weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u680	Well, we'll see about that in four weeks. We're not gonna tell you now. I think those four weeks are incredibly important. I also think that the other countries, most of the other countries, in the European Union, use the three or four-week time limit, as I said, to have time to keep the care in order, and at that time, that is about twice the incubation period, which is between eight and twelve days, to see where people are sick, where they are and what you can do about it. You can then continue testing, you can keep the care in order and you can also see if there are no better treatment methods. I do not rule out having to do it any longer after that, but I am not saying in advance that this is the way to do it. Mr President, my final motion. It's about closing down the hospitals. Unfortunately, Minister Bruins is not here right now. Again, much better for him, but I do think we should re-open the hospitals that are closed, like the Slotervaart hospital. These are important hospitals, with a lot of ic-capacity. We could really use it for all those corona patients right now. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to reopen and use closed hospitals, such as the Slotervaart Hospital, for the treatment of corona patients,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-152]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u681	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u682	Such a motion... It all sounds very nice and it all sounds very simple, but perhaps it is also good that Mr Wilders knows what the facts are. The facts are that we now have 1,150 ic-beds in the Netherlands. The facts are also that in 2006, just to take a year, we had the beginning of the current health care system "1,065 ic-beds." So we've got more now. What does Mr Wilders intend to do with the simple submission of such a motion, with the aim of 'open but just a few hospitals', without wondering whether there are staff for that, whether we have equipment and whether that hospital is immediately up and running? It all sounds so simple, but that's not how it is and it's too cheap.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u683	What I would actually like to do is undo the cheap bashes and destroy the care by the VVD. The party of the colleague, whose name I forgot for a moment, has in recent years... I have here a very nice state of the hospital beds and the hospitals. You'll see Germany's all over the top. Luxembourg, Austria, Romania, Belgium, Lithuania, Croatia, Estonia, Hungary, Italy... There are ten, twenty countries and all the way to the end, on page 2, somewhere at the bottom, is the Netherlands. That's because your party, the VVD, because that's where you've been from over the past few years only cuts into care and destroys care. That's what you like to do. That's about what the VVD stands for: buffaloing and cutting in the care. You did that. You fired 75,000 people into care. You fired hospitals, because care doesn't give a shit about the VVD. We want to undo that. We want the hospitals back. I think a lot of people think it's scandalous that the Slotervaart hospital, the IJsselmeer hospital or other hospitals are closed. We're gonna open them again. We're going to undo your damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u684	Cheap rhetoric. The facts are that we now have more ic-beds than in 2006. The facts are also that we have fewer hospital beds in general compared to some other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u685	Thanks to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u686	That is because we have so much smart care in the Netherlands, smart care where, for example, COPD patients are no longer in hospital but can be monitored at home and helped at home. That goes for a lot of treatments. That is the quality that we have in our care in the Netherlands. It is not about the simple equation that Mr Wilders makes. It's about what's needed, what you need available. That's not just a hospital. That is good care, and we deliver it in the Netherlands. That is something Mr Wilders is conveniently ignoring. That's a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u687	No. The situation is due to cutting and cutting the VVD. They've kind of written "saving care" on the forehead. You've ruined the care. You fired people. You signed up for the removal of hospitals. Because of your party, we're in trouble now. We need to undo that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u688	I actually agree with the PVV. We have also always fought against closing down the Slotervaart hospital and the other hospitals that have been closed down in recent years. I only have one concern and I would like to know from Mr Wilders how he looks at it: the shortage we already have of caregivers, of intensive workers, who are now walking out of the ass everywhere, in all kinds of hospitals. We can't get them to work with the push of a button in those hospitals. I would like to hear from Mr Wilders how he looks at that, how we are going to solve that problem at the same time. It's nice to open a building, but that doesn't mean we have a hospital.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u689	Sure. Two answers to the legitimate questions of the colleague of the SP. One: we didn't make those people go away. As PVV, I believe we have always resisted the firing of 75,000 people in healthcare, along with your party, the SP. That is what this cabinet has done and we have opposed it. You can ask me the question, but they caused the trouble, not me. So why don't you start by trying to get those 75,000 people who have been laid off and some of them are lucky enough to get back to work? You can do that. Maybe it's gonna take a bag of money. I hope that some people already have another job, but no doubt not all 75,000. You can come a long way with that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u690	I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u691	Thank you, Mr President. Also on behalf of the Party for Animal Feeling better for Minister Bruins. Get some rest. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch policy is judged by the Party for Animals on the basis of the criterion "the cabinet does everything it can to stay below the line "flatting the curve "and listens to experts." That seems to be the case. The only annoying thing is that the translation of what the World Health Organisation says to RIVM does not seem to have gone quite well. We want to be sure, because all the experts must support the policy. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the Dutch policy to combat the corona crisis should be based on the advice of experts from the National Institute for Public Health and the Environment (RIVM), the Outbreak Management Team (OMT) and the World Health Organisation (WHO);]] [[calls on the Government to continue to follow the WHO's advice and to take immediate further action as necessary in the event of this corona outbreak,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand, Mr Kuzu, Mr Van Haga and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-153]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u692	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in mental health care people depend on day-to-day care, where human contact is necessary and sometimes even vital;]] [[noting that the measures taken against the coronavirus have created uncertainty as to how this concern can be continued;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with an emergency plan;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand, Mr Hijink, Mr Asscher, Mr Kuzu, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Krol, Mr Wilders, Mr Baudet and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-154]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u693	I have a question about Mrs Ouwehand's first motion. Yes: including WTO opinions in the measures taken by the cabinet. I fully support that. But does Mrs Ouwehand recognise that these are opinions and that it is up to the cabinet to see how they are applied to the Netherlands? You can't take one-on-one advice. You always have to look at the Dutch situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u694	Of course, it is a political decision in the end. But we will always look closely at whether it is in line with expert advice. There seems to have been a situation, however annoying, whether or not it is based on a misunderstanding, which indicates that what the WHO says is not fully translated into RIVM. We must avoid these misunderstandings, because no one will benefit from a situation such as that which has occurred this week, namely that the WHO criticized Dutch policy. We shouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u695	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u696	Thank you, therefore, to the Cabinet for its commitment and hard work, and also to all those who are doing their utmost to overcome this crisis, sometimes at risk for their own lives. But we must not look away from the misery with which all this begins. Unfortunately, a zoonoses, which is corona, is not new, and we are warned of that. I'll mention a few. SARS was also a zoonoses. And the Mexican flu was actually the swine flu, which originated from pig farming. The Prime Minister mentioned the nightmare scenario that has now arisen. That nightmare scenario arises when such a virus mutates and skips on humans, and humans can infect each other. The Netherlands is also at enormous risk, with our enormous intensive livestock farming and, in particular, our poultry farming. I asked the Prime Minister to reflect on this and I had no answer. That source must also be taken away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u697	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u698	Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, much strength to Minister Bruins. I hope he can rest well tonight, because we need him very much in this crisis. Mr. Chairman. The debate was also about protective equipment. In fact, we all agree that the people who are in the front line and who are at work at risk for their own lives must have all the protective equipment they need. For that, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a shortage of protective materials and ventilation equipment while this is necessary for the provision of safe and good care;]] [[Considering that it is unacceptable that our healthcare providers run health risks in their indispensable work and sufficient ventilation equipment is vital for corona patients;]] [[calls on the Government to give further top priority to the acquisition of the necessary protective materials, test materials and ventilation equipment and to this end:]] [[to acquire active foreign material;]] [[ensure that domestic production is set up as quickly as possible;]] [[available and suitable material in independent clinics and other Dutch sectors insofar as they are not themselves vital sectors to direct directly to care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Klaver, Pieter Heerma, Veldman, Jetten, Segers, Krol, Ouwehand, Kuzu, Asscher, Hijink, Van Kooten-Arissen, Baudet, Van der Staaij, Van Haga and Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-155]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u699	Mr. Chairman. I have one more motion I would like to read out, but I would like one more thing... Mr Wilders is now saying something about the signing of my previous motion, but we are exploiting it. Mr. Chairman. During this debate, I received a lot of messages from companies offering mouth caps. Many thanks for that, and we all carried it to the Ministry, but I would like to say one thing here. We also informed about the prices. Prices are charged here from between €5 and €8, while the prices of these mouth caps are normally around the euro and are actually even lower. I would like to say the following to all these companies that are now offering this to us. You know damn well that society has no choice but to buy these caps to protect our care workers, but they can also be your grandparents, or your children, or your family. Please, just try not to make any money in this crisis. Mr. Chairman. I have one more motion, which I will read to you alone and which I will not say anything about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 170 food banks in the Netherlands feed 88.000 people every week through 515 issue points, of which 33,000 children under 18 years of age;]] [[Whereas the supply of food banks is stalled by:]] [[many of the 12,000 volunteers are retired and are at risk from the coronavirus;]] [[the supply of supermarkets/distribution centres is stagnating;]] [[whereas many food banks have therefore already had to stop their activities for the time being until 7 April;]] [[calls on the government to engage as soon as possible with all relevant parties in order to secure food supplies to the poorest in the Netherlands, for example by using food from the catering industry, the use of young people as volunteers, the removal of financial barriers, etc.,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-156]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u700	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The cabinet, together with the RIVM and all its staff, is responsible for the heavy task of dealing with this terrible corona crisis. I think it is of great added value that we can debate this issue with the Cabinet in this House in transparency and monitor what measures are being taken. The central question for this debate was for me: what strategy does the cabinet pursue, and on what advice? For doubt had arisen after a further excellent speech by the Prime Minister on TV last Monday evening about this so-called goal of group immunity. I would like to thank the RIVM and the expert at Erasmus MC, this morning, and the Cabinet, tonight, for the comprehensive and clear answer, namely that in the Netherlands, as in the countries around us, we are doing everything we can to protect people from this corona virus, especially the most vulnerable groups, with the aim of preventing peaks in healthcare. This sometimes requires serious intervention in our society, such as closing down the restaurants, sports clubs and schools. These measures are necessary to protect those vulnerable groups and to prevent the spread of the virus. If additional measures are needed in the coming weeks, based on advice from experts and scientists, then we will take those measures, but we will not take them by means of motions here in the Chamber that argue for a complete lockdown, because we with 150 MPs are not the health experts who have to make these assessments every day. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Cabinet for explaining the massive economic support package of tens of billions to secure jobs and incomes for the coming period, with particular attention being paid tozzp'ers and small entrepreneurs and shopkeepers. Thank you for that. I look forward to working on it and the debate we will have on it in a few weeks' time. Finally, Mr President. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would also like to wish Minister Bruins strength. He's spent the last few weeks working day and night in this fight against corona. I would also like to look in the mirror as a room. We have been here for about nine hours. I said at the beginning of my contribution that it is important for us to be able to control the cabinet in transparency, but perhaps in the coming weeks let us do this a little bit shorter and more concisely with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u701	Yeah, okay. I'm not saying anything. I give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u702	Mr. Chairman. I would like to wish Minister Bruins a great deal of good luck. I hope that he will rest well and recover quickly, so that he can get back to work immediately tomorrow or tomorrow, as far as we are concerned, the day after tomorrow. There's a lot to do. I wish him good luck and I have a great deal of respect for what he has done in recent times. That was obvious just now. Mr. Chairman. Like Mr Klaver, I also get a lot of messages from people who offer mouth caps. I do have some good news: they cost 35 cents. But those people didn't get through to the U.S. Department. It's being offered, but it's not happening. I'll also relay that signal to the contact there. The debate has also dealt with the question of lockdown, or the scenario proposed by the government? I have already indicated during my contribution that there is still a whole world to be won in terms of delivering the advice given by the RIVM. That's what my first motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government prefers the scenario of maximum control in order to prevent further spread of the coronavirus;]] [[Whereas there is still a world to be won in terms of following advice issued by RIVM in order to minimise the contamination of the coronavirus;]] [[calls on the Government to take additional binding measures to ensure that RIVM's urgent opinions are followed up in everyday life,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-157]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u703	Mr. Chairman. The national government has a role to play, but also the municipalities have a role to play. It is now the case that the government on the collegial board can call on the municipalities to ensure that they take their responsibility towards entrepreneurs. That's what my second motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the coronavirus has affected and seriously affected thousands of entrepreneurs;]] [[Whereas all these entrepreneurs should be supported both by the government and by municipalities;]] [[calls on the government to urge all municipalities to refrain from and to cancel local taxes on entrepreneurs who are close to the government's advice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-158]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u704	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u705	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Cabinet for the first-term response. I signed off on two motions. One has just been tabled by Mr Klaver and concerns the tools, tests and ventilation equipment. Mr Hijink of the SP will thus table a motion on a point that he made in the first term, namely to also be aware of the vulnerable in society. Looking back on this debate, for me, the analogy of Mr Wilders from the first term has been hanging over the house that is on fire. I would like to add that I would like to express my appreciation and respect for the cabinet, for the Prime Minister, for the ministers here in trade union K who are the firefighters in the middle of that burning house to put out that fire. In particular, I would like to mention Minister Bruins, who, against will and thanks, has become the face of all those people who are very concerned about dealing with this terrible, horrible crisis in this global pandemic. If you see the many tens of thousands of reactions to social media following the report that Minister Bruins took off less than an hour ago, then I think a lot of people in the Netherlands see and appreciate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u706	Mr. Chairman. Let me go along with that in particular, because I cannot put it more beautifully than Mr Heerma just did. I would also like to wish Minister Bruins a great deal of strength and good luck. I hope he'll be fit and on his feet soon, because it's badly needed. Mr. Chairman. There is a solid package for the economy, for jobs and for people's income, and we wholeheartedly support it. Where we are asking for more action, it is in the fight against the virus and, above all, the strategy that we need to improve communication on this strategy. I'd like to file two motions. One of them has just been announced and it's about how we deal with the most vulnerable people in our society. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the most vulnerable in society are at greatest risk during the outbreak of the corona virus and therefore require additional protection;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor closely the impact of corona on this group and to pay particular attention to:]] [[help, support and shelter for homeless people;]] [[tenants and homeowners and consequences of any payment problems;]] [[supply and support to food banks;]] [[and to resolve any problems promptly and as closely as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Hijink, Mr Asscher, Mr Jetten, Mr Segers, Mr Klaver and Mr Pieter Heerma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-159]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u707	Then there's the second motion I'd like to table. It's a little uncomfortable because it's about the Ministry of Medical Care's territory. I am going to submit it anyway in the hope that one of the other directors will be able to answer it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the fight against corona, public health interests prevail over private interests;]] [[points out that the monopolisation of a vaccine by one company or country should be avoided at the expense of availability to the world population;]] [[calls on the Government to make the most of this at national, European and international level and, if necessary, to issue emergency measures such as compulsory licences or the setting aside of patent rights,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-160]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u708	Mr. Chairman. Let me first say something to the Minister of Medical Care. Last Sunday he spoke from the heart in an interview and said to all Dutch people: pay attention to each other. I would like to say here: Dear Bruno, take care of yourself; rest well. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the various ministers for their reply. I fully agree with the Minister for Social Affairs when he says: give us a little time; do not report to the municipality tomorrow,zzp'ers, because we also have to organize it. I would like to give him this: Minister, get on with it, because the end of the month comes in the picture and the bills have to be paid, while manyzzp'er assignments have fallen to zero, namely that they now have no work. Mr. Chairman. I regret the fog raised by some parties in this Chamber: as if our concerns were not ready, as if we had problems. I would like to say two things to all those people who are insecure about it. One. A quote from an intensive care doctor at the Tilburg Elisabeth-TwoCities Hospital last Monday in one of the national newspapers, who literally said: this is our job; we do not panic. And so it is. Toppers in the care that just take care of us. Two. There are several international organisations doing research. In the Global Health Security Index, the Netherlands of the 196 countries is in third place when it comes to being ready to fight an epidemic. Mind you, third place of 196 countries. So our concern is in order. People don't have to worry about that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u709	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u710	Mr. Chairman. We're going into a very exciting period. That goes for a lot of people at home who have to deal with sick people, but so do we all. That means that we must try to influence the things we can influence as best we can. On the one hand, therefore, we need to take the right measures at the right time, such as whether or not to force that social divide further. On the other hand, we have to make sure the care is ready. I would have liked to ask Bruno Bruins about the implementation of the Wilders/Asscher motion: is enough ic-capacity being built? We shall now put that question in writing, because we must be sure that it will be done on time. The other point is whether we are doing enough. I was convinced today by the words of the RIVM, but also by the reaction of the cabinet that it is not right to force a random experiment with a lockdown of four weeks as a Chamber. It is better to give support here to the people who do it on our behalf. That's human work. Mistakes are made. That it is human work, we have also seen to Bruno Bruins, whom I wish rest; I hope he will just be able to get back to work in a cheerful and fit tomorrow. We do support the approach. That is also important, because I think that the chance of success of the Dutch approach has a lot to do with the question of whether we can all join forces and whether we are going to do our best to save lives, even if that means that we are not doing a few things ourselves. That would be my call. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the most vulnerable group of people live in nursing homes or receive home care and community care;]] [[considers that vulnerable people need maximum protection against the COVID-19 virus and that clear measures are therefore needed;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up and share with interested parties a clear national policy on protection for these groups as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-161]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u711	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u712	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u713	Members of the staff. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that during his speech on Monday evening, the Prime Minister stated "that we can build up controlled group immunity in anticipation of a vaccine or medicine (...). (...) Just like old times with measles. (...) That's the principle.';]] [[noting that Jaap van Dissel in response to Mariëlle Tweebeeke stated that the idea behind the policy is that it is better if more people get the virus, as long as it is not the most vulnerable people;]] [[noting that Jaap van Dissel then said: "We want the virus to circulate among people who actually suffer little from it";]] [[Whereas this is a risky and exceptional strategy, the number of victims of which is potentially enormous;]] [[Whereas it is desirable that the virus should not be "circulated" at all and that as few people as possible should be infected;]] [[calls on the Government to state that it does not control group immunity before obtaining a vaccine;]] [[calls on the government not to commit itself to "let the virus circulate among the people who suffer (...) from it," as Van Dissel said, but to use it to prevent contamination as much as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-162]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u714	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u715	I don't really want to cut you off reading your motions. And that then videos are made and distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u716	We shouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u717	Well, I don't know. You're free to do that. But what goes for the rest of it goes for you too, so two minutes. And I'm a little overprotective. If it's two minutes and a few seconds, I don't mind. But you are not supposed to have more speaking time than the rest. I can't believe you know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u718	Mr. Chairman. Everyone is free to make motions with any opinion and with any appeal to the cabinet, but I do not think it is appropriate for Mr Baudet to bring forward in his motion by name all kinds of people who cannot defend themselves here in this house. I think he should confine himself to the appeal to the government. I would ask Mr Baudet to amend his motion accordingly and to remove the names he mentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u719	Yeah, well. We'll be able to correspond about that for a while. I do not think it is unreasonable in itself to call it a first name, but a function, for example. I don't think that's a problem. But I do think it's relevant to just mention which institution we're talking about. 'Cause it's a state institute, it's just a government thing. And it's something that comes with statements in coordination with the government. Continuously, in one-two, policies are aligned with RIVM. So I do think that we should have an opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u720	I agree with Mr Baudet. So if he turns that into institutions... They are also the responsibility of a minister. But it doesn't matter to mention a name and a name.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u721	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u722	Proceed, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u723	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the shelves of the supermarkets are army than usual, because many people hoard;]] [[noting that this creates difficult situations for older people, who are also more vulnerable to the corona virus and therefore are best placed to go to the supermarket when it is quiet;]] [[calls on the cabinet to submit the idea to supermarkets to open only the first hour in the morning for customers over 65 years old, as is already happening in some supermarkets in the US, Australia and Ireland,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-163]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u724	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Prime Minister claims to conduct policy on the basis of a number of modelled RIVM scenarios;]] [[whereas only the outcome of its trade-offs has been made public;]] [[Whereas the Court cannot effectively carry out its audit function with incomplete information and cannot, moreover, assess the deliberations of the Cabinet;]] [[calls on the government to share RIVM scenarios with the Chamber in accordance with Article 68 Constitution by tomorrow morning or at least as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-164]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u725	I'm gonna leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u726	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u727	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Also my sympathy, of course, with Bruno Bruins. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, as a result of the corona crisis, an emergency package has been announced in order to provide financial support for entrepreneurs and that it is now possible for entrepreneurs to apply for a deferred tax payment;]] [[noting that an auditor's "corona statement" is required;]] [[Whereas this takes unnecessary time, money and energy;]] [[calls on the government to minimise the bureaucracy surrounding tax deferral due to the corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that both individuals and entrepreneurs will have to pay their property tax by 30 April 2020;]] [[Considering that the corona crisis is a very large burden on liquidity for many;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the municipalities, to establish a uniform national deferment scheme of at least six months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a threat of scarcity of test material and thus cannot be tested by anyone with obvious symptoms of the coronavirus;]] [[noting that there are extensive testing possibilities in countries such as Taiwan;]] [[Whereas the testing of persons with symptoms is of great importance in order to prevent the spread of the virus;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to ensure that sufficient test material is available in the Netherlands so that everyone can be tested with complaints,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-165]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-166]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-167]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u728	Then I have one, very short, motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u729	No, I just spoke to Mr. Baudet harshly. You are well over your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u730	This is my redemption motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u731	No, Mr. Van Haga. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u732	So what do I do with that last motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u733	I'm sure there'll be another debate where you can submit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u734	It'll only take 20 seconds. I have one minute. I think this is really weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u735	I've just been tough on Mr Baudet. So if I allow this, I must also allow it to Mr Baudet. I would say: submit the motion to the next debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u736	Listen. I have one minute. I've been over it for 14 seconds now. I need 10 seconds. I'm really doing the best I can to talk as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u737	Yes, but, Mr Van Haga, I am not doing it, because Mr Baudet was one second over his speaking time and I just don't think that's fair. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u738	Madam President, although I hope he is already asleep, I would like to wish Minister Bruins every success. I had four motions, but there's only three left. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the coronavirus will increase the pressure on carers in the near future, partly due to the overload of regular care and it is very important that they continue to be able to do their job properly;]] [[Calls on the Government to take specific account of the position of carers in all measures taken around the coronavirus;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether carers can benefit from the childcare and school scheme for people with a vital occupation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the policy on the corona virus is primarily aimed at protecting the elderly and vulnerable;]] [[Whereas the measures may result in older people and vulnerable people living at home not receiving the care they need, becoming isolated, under-movement and under-utilised;]] [[calls on the government to put forward an emergency plan to prevent bottlenecks, so that older people and vulnerable people can cope responsibly with this period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-168]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol, Mr Asscher and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-169]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u739	I didn't mention who signed up. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u740	Don't talk too much, otherwise you'll have to return to your place without a motion. Read it to me!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u741	I only have one left, Madam President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas many taxable persons are supported in the declaration by family members, volunteers and/or professionals;]] [[Whereas not everyone, independently or with remote digital assistance, is able to make a timely declaration;]] [[Whereas "social abstention" is of great importance during this period;]] [[Whereas additional work for the Tax Administration should be avoided by many individual applications;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider whether the deadline for making declarations for 2019 can be postponed to 1 September 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-170]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u742	And one more sentence. I was going to table a motion to see if ABN AMRO's proposal could also apply to other banks, but we have already received a commitment, so the motion is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u743	That's the way it's gonna be. Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u744	Mr President, I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the caregivers are currently in the front line in the fight against the coronavirus;]] [[noting that maximum efforts are required of these care providers and those who provide them;]] [[Considers that, in addition to a friendly applause, the exceptional services provided by health care providers should also give a financial expression of appreciation;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of granting a bonus to those caregivers who are now being asked to make an extra effort in the fight against the coronavirus, as a token of appreciation, and to inform the Court about the outcome,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Kooten-Arissen, Krol, Asscher, Kuzu, Wilders, Baudet, Van Haga, Van der Staaij and Ouwehand.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-171]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u745	A sympathetic motion by Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen and I also understand why she is submitting her, but we adopted a motion by Mr Hijink last week, if I remember correctly, which also calls for a specific look at this group. I would like to ask Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen to hold her motion until we know how the cabinet is carrying out that Heiink motion. If we are dissatisfied with that, I think your motion will be dealt with again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u746	I'd like to discuss with Mr. Hijink how we can coordinate the motions, but I'll wait for the Minister's opinion before I hold the motion. Mr. Chairman. I would like to join with Mr Bruins in wishing him well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u747	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u748	Madam President. I would like to thank the rulers for their reply and wish Minister Bruins every success. We're hoping he'll be able to fight the corona virus again soon. Much respect for his unbridled commitment. I shall confine myself to a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that care institutions take measures to protect vulnerable people due to the coronavirus;]] [[Whereas, for example, it has closed day care for elderly people with dementia or (young) people with disabilities;]] [[Whereas this calls for even more carers;]] [[calls on the Government, together with municipalities and healthcare providers, to take further measures in the short term to support and care for carers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Krol and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-172]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u749	Mr. Chairman. Then there is a small friend service to Mr Van Haga. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a huge liquidity problem as a result of the corona crisis;]] [[Whereas the liquidity position of both individuals and entrepreneurs would greatly improve if a certain period of time did not require repayment of mortgages;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of exempting all mortgages from repayment for the remainder of 2020, with the government providing assistance to banks in the form of a loan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-173]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u750	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u751	Thank you. Creative by Mr Van Haga. Finally, I will go to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u752	Madam President, I had a tendency to put a lot of difficult questions to the first author about that last motion, but I did not do so. Madam President. We have seen here tonight that this crisis requires a great deal from a lot of people. I would like to add my best wishes to the Minister for Medical Care, Bruno Bruins, and I hope that he will soon be completely better and able to continue the important work he is doing. Madam President. I have co-signed a number of motions: Mr Klaver's motion on equipment and supplies, Mr Van der Staaij's motion on the position of carers and Mr Hijink's motion on the care of the most vulnerable. I've done it with all my heart. I have one more point on Mr Klaver's and myself's motion for a resolution. 156 over the food banks and the position of food banks. It also states that financial thresholds must be removed, because sometimes food is not available. It has been said that food banks have proposed to distribute food stamps. That can be very stigmatizing. There are also methods of depositing small amounts with, for example, a prepaid card from banks and allowing people to get their food. That's a suggestion I like to make. I would like to underline another commitment I received from the Prime Minister about vulnerable pupils in vulnerable neighbourhoods who cannot attend digital education at home. I had prepared a motion, but I'm not going to do it because of the generous commitment. But I would like to receive an update in the progress letter if it comes when we talk about it again next week, to know how it lands. All the way to the end, I would like to address myself to the Prime Minister. I would also like to thank him for taking the lead in the fight against this crisis. Behind him and around him there are a number of men, but there is actually a whole army of people who do important work in the ministries but also in the care, in the workplace and in carrying out the economic package in all kinds of places. But the most beautiful thing about this crisis, no matter how heavy and dark it is, is that what people do for each other and how they help each other. Then my question to the Prime Minister: would he really like to give those volunteer platforms #not only and of the Red Cross a push and involve them in full...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u753	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u754	...on the apple that's made on civilians to take care of each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u755	Thank you, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u756	I was very pleased to do so, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u757	Thank you. That also brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'm looking at the Prime Minister. Five minutes suspension, I hear him say. You gonna be okay in five minutes? I'm just checking in to make sure, because the officials aren't in the neighborhood. Good. Then I'll suspend the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u758	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u759	Mr. Chairman. Mr Koolmees will respond to Mr Segers' question on the voluntary platform in the context of the motion on item No. 159. I can inform Mr Heerma that the answer to his question on the care of vulnerable children will be sent to the Chamber this week from Arie Slob, the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media. I promised. I took a look at which experts and universities the RIVM is working with. That is on modelling, virology and genetics; in the coronavirus specifically for epidemiological research and also with NIVEL. That was also mentioned by Mr Klaver. There is a tremendous amount of cooperation on all these issues. There is therefore a very intensive expert network and university network around RIVM. Then I'll get to the motions. The motion in part No. 151 on the lockdown, I advise, with reference to the debate. The motion in part No. 152 on the closure of hospitals, with reference to the debate. For the motion in part No. 153 goes to Court of Justice, because that is what we want, of course. The motion in part No. 154 on the emergency plan for the ggz, I will pass on to Mr Blokhuis. I would ask the author to hold the motion because I cannot respond to it now. The petitioner is the animal party. Maybe they can arrest her and then Mr Blokhuis on the motion in part No. 154 responding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u760	About the motion in part No. 152. The Minister says: with reference to the debate. Let's not let that have been the subject of the debate. That is a reference to nothing, because it has not been responded to. Unfortunately, the Minister has become ill, but there has been no response from the government. So you can say a lot about it, but not with reference to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u761	Sorry, I was just out of the room. I thought he was gonna respond to that. Then he didn't get to that. Then let me give you that reaction. Basically, empty buildings are not a lack, but rather a lack of staff and equipment. Then the hospital can be well scaled up. And extra personnel and equipment are being worked hard. So, unfortunately, the empty buildings that would be put back into operation will not solve the problem we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u762	Of course, I wasn't interested in the empty buildings. Perhaps your colleagues could have heard this when I first mentioned it. It's about the hospital together with the staff. The cabinet has previously dismissed 75,000 people in care to ask the people back, to recruit people. We need them very much. Not everyone of those 75,000 is back at work, so you can come a long way by re-opening some of the hospitals that you have closed up.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. You can at least make an effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u763	I just gave the answer and that is that we are working on the organisation of staff and equipment. The space for that is there. For that, the old hospitals do not need to be reopened. That room is in the existing hospitals. The problem is getting extra staff and equipment. They're working hard on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u764	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u765	No, the problem isn't... I just showed you the state of the bed shortage, especially as soon as those ic's get full. You can see that now. The number of people on the ic has increased so much over the last few weeks. At one point, you'll see the following, which is why Minister Bruins said before he left: I'm going to try to increase the ic capacity. You can already see with other people in the ICU department that regular operations are being postponed. A lot of people at home will recognize that. Regular treatments are postponed. So there is a shortage of beds, especially in the future. So I would suggest that you at least see if you can re-open the hospitals, which were closed not so long ago, but also the staff, not only for the future, not today, but as soon as the crisis continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u766	Again, it's not about the floor space that brings a new building. The point is, you need people and equipment. The floor area is there in the existing buildings. That's not where the problem is. The problem is with him...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u767	But I don't have it at all...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u768	I'm just gonna finish this and I'm gonna say it for the third time. Mr Wilders insists on reopening these two hospitals in the context of this discussion, but that is really a different discussion. I understand the sensitivity of the closure of those hospitals. I totally get that. What this is about...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u769	Mr. Wilders, you don't agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u770	... arenotbuildings. This is about personnel and equipment. This can be organised in the existing infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u771	Madam President, one last time, because we are indeed talking side by side. I'm just saying it's not just a separate discussion. You are right: it hurts us anyway and a lot of people that those hospitals are closed. But that's not what I'm asking for. When it comes to the capacity of ic's and to beds, you see that an extra hospital is needed, especially if the crisis is getting worse. It will not only be possible in existing hospitals. Here you have hospitals that you just closed down. Staff have been fired before, not so long ago. Just give it a shot and don't say again that it's not about the buildings, because that's not what I'm saying. Buildings, people, beds we need in the future. See Minister Bruins, who said we need to scale up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u772	It's about people, and it's about icing equipment. As far as we are now assessing it, this can very well be done in existing infrastructure. If you open a new building, you also have to arrange all the other amenities. There's gotta be security there, there's gotta be a cafeteria open and all that stuff. They're arranged in the existing hospitals. So it seems to me to be a great deal of extra work. We totally agree, Wilders and I: more people, more beds for ic-capacity. Work is under way to organise this as well as possible. But for that we don't necessarily need to have a new building, however much I also understand the sensitivity of the closure of those hospitals that we discussed in 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u773	The Prime Minister responded to my motion requesting an emergency plan for mental health care. In itself, a request to hold the motion because the person in question is not present, quite reasonable, but the problems are happening now and the motion calls for an emergency plan. So I'm willing to hold the motion, but how soon can Secretary of State Blokhuis respond? It would be best if he could give a response by the end of the week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u774	Let's go check it out. As soon as possible. I haven't prepared for it now. We don't have any preparations in my file on the ggz.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u775	I understand. Could there be a brief contact with the Ministry, so we know...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u776	We try to give a response at the end of the week or by Monday at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u777	That's great. Then I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u778	At the request of Mrs Ouwehand, I propose her motion (25295, No. 154). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u779	Then the motion to part No. 155. For the sake of clarity, I say, judge Chamber. The motion in part No. 156 does Mr Koolmees. I request that the motion be put to the vote at the next voting time. 157 to be retained. I have said that I cannot rule out any measure in the future either. Urgent or compelling measures are not at issue now, but they could be in the future. In this sense, the motion directs whatever we say, namely that additional urgent or compelling measures may be needed. But they're not right now. In that sense, I would say hold the motion, otherwise I must discourage her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u780	There have been numerous opinions given by RIVM and we support them. But we also see that they are not sufficiently respected in society. That is the question in the motion: is it conceivable that the government should come up with binding measures to ensure that these opinions are actually followed? So that is not a total lockdown, which is actually a tightening-up of the scenario the government chooses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u781	This is, of course, what the municipalities can do with an emergency regulation which allows them, for example, to maintain the closure of cafes and restaurants. So I don't see the added value yet. I can imagine with Mr Kuzu that you can have a situation in the future that you will take a particular measure which also needs to be organized. However, I find it difficult to understand the compulsion on the urgency of RIVM in the package of measures. That is why my suggestion was to hold the motion and involve it in another debate. I don't think it's urgent right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u782	The Emergency Regulation. A number of municipalities do indeed. Not all municipalities, but a number of municipalities do. In my speech, I gave an example of the supermarkets where two of the eight checkouts are open side by side. These are measures that I believe the government can do much more about than is currently the case. I'm not going to hold the motion. It is a tightening-up of existing policies. I'd like to hear the Prime Minister for one last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u783	That's what we're gonna vote on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u784	Then I tend to discourage the motion, because I do not see what we can do with it in practice. I understand the problem when it comes to cash registers, but let's also give society a chance to organize that smartly. They also listen and say: hey, there perhaps Mr Kuzu has a point. That kind of thing often takes place in practice. The motion in part No. 158 does Mr Wiebes. The motion in part No. 159 does Mr Koolmees. The motion in part No. 160 does Mr Wiebes. Then the motion to part No. 161: Judgment of the Court of Justice. There is an approach to vulnerable people, can I on the motion in part No. 161 report, including a measure for staff and residents in health care institutions. You will receive this as soon as possible, thus judging Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 162) by Mr Baudet. The policy is aimed at protecting vulnerable people and, at the same time, at reducing the burden on healthcare. I refer to everything that has been said about this in the debate. That's why I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 163 Mr Wiebes does. The motion in part No. 164 I advise. I have also explained in the debate why I am doing so. It's not like a model can be sent to the Chamber. This is discussed in the OMT. That's different with the ic capacity. That's got harder numbers on it. It's different here. The motion in part No. 165 does Mr Hoekstra. The same applies to the motion in part No. 166. That does not apply to the motion in part No. 167. It requires to ensure that sufficient test material becomes available. I advise against this motion. There's a global shortage of test material. That is not an unwillingness; it is not enough at the moment, so I would advise against the motion in part No. 167. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 168. I agree with the motion in that it is important that carers continue to be able to do their job, especially at this time. But it is a step too far for me to say that they too have a crucial profession and are therefore part of the childcare scheme. This means that more and more people are going to fall into it and you are getting close to getting the schools open again. Since society didn't want to, my tendency wouldn't be to do it anyway. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 168. The motion in part No. 169 gets judgment, Chamber. I told you, the approach is aimed at the elderly and vulnerable people. I will pass on the requests from this motion to Mr De Jonge, who is working on them. The motion in part No. 169 gets judgment, then, Chamber. Am I saying that right? Yeah, I say that right. The motion in part No. 170 is for Mr Hoekstra. The motion in part No. 171 gets judgment, Room. There are discussions with employers and employees. It's important to check that out. The motion in part No. 172 gets judgment, Room. It is important that carers can continue to do their job. The motion in part No. 173 is for Mr Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u785	Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u786	As regards the platforms, I have said that Mr Koolmees is addressing your question in the context of the motion for a resolution on item No. 159.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u787	Okay. Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u788	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are two things left from the first term that I would like to come back to. The first was Mr Segers' question about childcare and his own contribution. Another addition: Tamara van Ark works together with Alexandra van Huffelen on a repair of his own contribution. Your Chamber will be informed of this shortly. The second point was Mr Kuzu's question on the cost sharing standard. I'd come back to that in the letter. Tamara van Ark tells me that municipalities can now offer local customization. In addition, this is currently being investigated in response to a previously adopted chamber motion. This will also inform the Chamber once that investigation has been carried out. In doing so, I also fulfilled a commitment from the first term. The motion in part No. 156 by Mr Klaver and Mr Segers on the food banks is judged by the Chamber, also given the reference to the action team that is already in the process. The motion in part No. 159 of Mr Hijink, Mr Asscher, Mr Jetten, Mr Segers, Mr Klaver and Mr Heerma also received a ruling from the Chamber. I would like to add that we are also taking on board Mr Segers' call for voluntary organisations to be involved. I'm taking it with me on this motion about vulnerable groups. The motion gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u789	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u790	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. Mr Kuzu asked the government to urge all municipalities to refrain from local charges, etc., and to waive them. The discussion with the VNG is ongoing, as described in the letter of Parliament. The discussion with the municipalities about the restraint of municipal charges is ongoing. I would nevertheless advise against this motion, firstly because the operative part has a compelling tone which does not fit in with administrative relations, and secondly because the measure of the operative part does not give any room for proportionality. So I'm not suggesting this motion. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 160. The cabinet believes that the call for this commitment is excellent. I also recognise that we must act if a monopoly position would interfere with a solution for a vaccine. That too is a sensible idea, but to put aside compulsory licences and patent rights in one sense, is not related to any policy and is not necessarily necessary. I'm deceiving that motion. Then we have the motion in part no. 163, a motion by Mr Baudet. That motion is about the idea of supermarkets and the elderly. I have promised Mr Jetten I will try to look him in the eye and bring this to the attention of the House. We have formulated with quite a lot of precision why I should bring this to the attention of the House. That's what I promised him. I do not see that precision in the recitals here, nor in the operative part. Moreover, there is a very precise interpretation here that may not be suitable for the elderly and perhaps not at all for the supermarkets. I would advise against this motion, but I reaffirm my commitment to Mr Jetten to bring this to the fore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u791	About this motion and the compulsory licences: the Minister now says that it is probably or possibly not necessary to do so at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u792	What kind of motion is that exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u793	I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u794	The motion in part No. 160.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u795	The motion in part No. 160. In that motion, I describe exactly: if necessary. If the Minister states that it is not necessary specifically for the fight against the corona virus, then it is not necessary and therefore it does not matter. That's why I said if necessary. That's literally what it says. I would therefore say that the Minister can also give a ruling on Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u796	I say that because I think it can be arranged in other ways. That's reassuring, but we can't just put aside patent law anyway. If monopolies are to occur, we must somehow find a solution to this problem. I recognize that. That must be done, but what is written here simply does not correspond to the law and should not be done in such a way in a motion at 11 p.m. in the evening. There are very extensive discussions about this. This is also a discussion that is well known to the VWS spokesmen and indeed also to the EZK spokesmen. We are not going to do this in this way, but I recognise that the government supports the maximum effort. Taking action if a monopoly were to be a barrier is also correct, but I really cannot approve the solution that is being delivered here. That's why I don't recommend that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u797	I find this a complicated defence by the Minister, because it literally says 'and if necessary to come up with emergency measures'. If the Minister now says that he estimates that it is not necessary and that it can be done in another way, then that last part of the sentence lapses, because it is not necessary. I write: then and otherwise not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u798	Then I'll turn the logic around. I am not prepared to give that part away in this way, but if Mr Hijink says that after the word "stressed" the operative part ends, then the motion will be given a Chamber judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u799	Good. Then we'll move on to the next motions. Thank you. I ask the Minister to sit down. Because when you look like that, you invite Members of Parliament to resume the discussion, and I think we still have to make the following motions. I call the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u800	Thank you, Mr President. The first motion I make is the motion in part No. 165 on the tax administration and unnecessary bureaucracy. I have to say, it's a work in progress anyway. Everything has to be done to get that right. It also sheds a bit in the text, which suggests that unnecessary time, money and energy would be spent on the accountant. That's really not right. However, I can agree with the operative part, which deals with reducing bureaucracy to the minimum. I can therefore leave the motion for a resolution to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 166 of Van Haga I must advise against. That motion is about the ozb. The package we've made is extraordinary. If necessary, we will extend the package and, on the contrary, we have examined all the measures in terms of complexity and impact. So we have come up with this package of measures, including taxation. The motion in part No. 170 I must advise against. I would like to refer to my first term. There's no problem there. Then saying that we're going to move all the private returns to September 1, 2020 is really disproportionate. So I'm going to have to dissuade that motion. However, I have already promised that we will see whether vulnerable elderly people who depend on others in making their declarations will be in trouble and, if so, what policy is to be adopted. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the motion in part No. Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr This is a horse medicine. I should also like to refer to my first term. I would also like to refer to the conversation I have with the banks tomorrow. We're gonna look at the people with a mortgage that might get in trouble despite the big package. But to start now for all Dutch people with all mortgages for the rest of 2020 exempt from redemption... That is such a big deal, and so much bureaucracy is added that we should not want to ask each other that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u801	Madam President, I would like to make the motion in part No. 168 on the carers, and the motion in part No. 170, about the IRS, want to arrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u802	At the request of Mr Krol, I propose his motions (25295, Nos. 168 and 170). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u803	However, I would like to say a few words about the motion on item No. 173. I say: 'calls on the government to investigate the possibility', blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, So it's not even an effort obligation. In the interview tomorrow, it is possible to examine whether all these mortgages can be exempted. If you promise to investigate, we'll see if that's possible, what the pros and the cons are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u804	No. I have really tried to meet Mr Van Haga in my first term as much as possible. I think it is quite right that he should draw attention to this group. But researching whether this whole group, those millions of Dutch people who pay off their mortgage every month, can be put into good Dutch "in play," while we have already made a number of proposals for this group, suggests that there is a certain reality to this. Fortunately, that is really not necessary at the moment. So I want to talk to the banks about specific, small groups of people who are in trouble and about what customization they can offer at that point. But I say in all friendship that it is not wise to ask and/or investigate this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u805	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u806	Mr President, I would like to amend a motion. I think that's how I'm supposed to report it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u807	What motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u808	The motion in part No. 160. The operative part will then be: "calls on the government to make the most of this at national, European and international level and, if necessary, to take emergency measures'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u809	Did you also rewrite the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u810	Well, I put a line through a piece. But I'd be happy to give you the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u811	They're just negotiating motions. If you give us a copy, we can take it with us. But what is the verdict on this change?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u812	I hear whispering behind me: Judgement Room. I suspect it was the Minister of Economic Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-18-tweedekamer-2.u813	The amended motion for a resolution by Mr Heink (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the fight against corona, public health interests prevail over private interests;]] [[points out that the monopolisation of a vaccine by one company or country should be avoided at the expense of availability to the world population;]] [[calls on the Government to make the most of this at national, European and international level and, if necessary, to take emergency measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 160 ().
