ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u1	At present, the issue is the joint examination of the legislative proposals Amendment of the budget statement of the Ministry of Finance for the year 2020 (Third incidental supplementary budget on the employment and economic emergency package 2.0 and COVID-19 crisis measure SURE) (35466), and Amendment of the budget statement of the Ministry of Finance for the year 2020 (Fifth incidental supplementary budget on COVID-19 crisis measures to increase IMF resources PRGT and EIB- pan-European guarantee fund, adjustment of IMF resources) (35492). I had already welcomed the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to Mr Frentrop, who will speak on behalf of the Forum for Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. SURE, the English acronym for "aid to reduce the risk of unemployment in an emergency," is about 100 billion in loans, to be granted by the European Commission to countries or institutions that can use that money to pay their own reduction plans. Why don't these countries borrow that money themselves? That is a mystery to the Group of the Forum for Democracy. If they can't do it, it's unwise for us to lend that money to a country that can't borrow it itself. I'll split my questions about SURE into three cubes. A. Is it necessary? B. How does SURE relate to the domestic efforts of the Netherlands against corona? C. What guarantees do we have that the money will ever come back? Is it necessary? Is it necessary for such flows to be managed through the European Union? I don't think so. The EU is aware of the principle of subsidiarity: what a country can do itself must do, and Brussels should not interfere. The question is: does the Minister share this view? A little more zoomed in: which country needs exactly what? Is there a need assessment per country to use jargon? I understand it's a voluntary contribution. Which countries are participating in SURE and for how much? Which countries get money and how much? Then about what we do in our own country. We have had a first round of aid measures. We're in the second round now. After the recess, we're going to talk about whether there should be a third round. I assume that the same is true in the other European Member States. They've already spent the money for the first rounds. Is it therefore correct to say that the Netherlands is already paying for the reduction in working hours in other countries, and we are still not sure whether we will continue to do so in the Netherlands? Then the third point: do we ever see the money again? I would like to begin by congratulating the Minister. It is very good that the intention is that we should not be paid back by the recipient country, but that we should be reimbursed by having a claim on the whole of the European budget. That helps. That makes the chance that the money will come back a lot bigger. The second compliment is that you have built in an end date for the programme, which I believe was not in it at first. But those two fuses are not enough to ensure that the money is also well spent. Those who lend money always impose conditions on their use. That's what the Netherlands does. We also do this when we support the KLM, which we have just talked about, and also when we support Curaçao. So that's what we do when we support Spain, Italy or France through SURE. I must confess that when I ask this question I ask for the way, because I already know that the Minister agrees with me. A little over a year ago, he warned in a speech at Humboldt University that our European way of life is at stake. That would happen if the European Union did not immediately oppose the beacons. I quote from the newspaper: "Hoekstra does not think it can be explained that if the Netherlands raises the retirement age to 67 years, other Member States that reduce pension bases, but do knock on the EU's door for money if the budget fails." Then there is quotes: 'I am therefore in favour of those who do not reform, those who spend European money unwisely and those who do not respect the Stability and Growth Pact being unable to claim European money'. Well, that's very clear. The facts are as follows: France has not reformed and has maintained its retirement age at 62 years, and Italy is completely greyed out, yet has built up an unsustainable public debt of more than twice the maximum allowed in the Stability Pact. So I'm asking about the familiar road. Can the Minister confirm to me that France and Italy are not eligible for support from the SURE fund. So much for SURE. Then I come to the 200 billion that the European Investment Bank is gonna lose, and we already know that it is going to lend to Italian banks, for example, so that they can lend to Italian companies that are so bad that the Italian banks themselves do not dare to lend to them. That's obviously a bad idea. I will not waste any more time on that, except that I would point out that the Minister is putting Dutch SMEs in a position to compete with foreign ghost companies that are artificially kept alive. The Forum for Democracy will therefore vote against this and I assume that every party will do so in the interests of Dutch small and medium-sized enterprises. Finally, we have a heartfelt opinion to give to the government, which will have to talk about a fund in the coming weeks where the EUR 100 billion for SURE and the EUR 200 billion for the EIB will still fade. It is then an amount that was originally 500 billion and that has been raised to 750 billion. Mrs. Merkel and Mr. Macron would like to pass that amount on to Mr. Macron and his friends. Don't, Minister! Keep your paws stiff, remember what you said in Berlin. But we also need to be realistic. Should the pressure get too high and our partners are going to blackmail the Netherlands to participate, the Dutch government will say to her knowing fellow citizens: okay, but under a few conditions. That's how it's been so far. The Forum for Democracy would be disappointed if this were to happen again. We also know that these other countries never comply with these conditions. So, in case you go down, we need to introduce sanctions. And here comes our advice. If the Prime Minister and you are going to talk about this huge fund that will completely change the nature of the European Union into a transfer union, you have to make the condition that you only want to talk if the other countries agree to an amendment to the Treaty on European Union, an amendment to the effect that countries may give up the euro, but can still remain a member of the European Union. That is something that cannot be done now, but which would place all countries in a much stronger position. Then Italy could get out, if necessary. And then the Netherlands could come out of the euro, if necessary. We do not have to leave the euro immediately, but at least we will have an emergency exit. The Netherlands would then be in the better position that eight other Member States of the European Union already have. These are the Member States which do not participate in the euro, but which are properly members of the European Union. They remain free from the most vile plans being hatched in Brussels. Mr. Chairman. If the Minister appreciates that, I would like to exchange views with him once again outside the limited time available for this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Frentrop. I call Mrs Sent. It speaks on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The PvdA Group commends the Minister and the other members of the Cabinet for their efforts to preserve jobs and keep the economy running. It is precisely because of the measures that the government had to take to reduce the risk of the corona virus spreading that jobs are at risk and the economy is being hit. The measures that are good for public health have a devastating effect on the economy. In the debate on how to deal with the corona crisis, public health and the economy are sometimes confronted as two separate blocks. However, that is a false contradiction. Anyone who says that the economy is now drowning because of public health measures assumes that the economy is a goal. But the economy is a means, in the form of income, products and services, just as public health measures are a means. Resources that you must use as optimally as possible for the well-being and well-being of all people here and in the rest of the world, now and in the future. At the same time, we need to realise that any relaxation of the measures will allow the economy to turn around a bit. In that sense, this crisis is really different from that of 12 years ago. Then the crisis was triggered by looming errors in the relationship between the financial system and the real economy. One of the agreements is that a crisis never comes alone. Twelve years ago, it began with a financial crisis, which became an economic crisis and ultimately a euro crisis. Now it begins with a health crisis, which then becomes an economic crisis and may lead to a social crisis, because the vulnerable are hit hard:zzp'ers, the elderly, refugees, people with disabilities. In both cases, the government and the European Central Bank stand up to solve the problems of aid and loans; in the previous crisis for the financial sector, now for business. Mr. Chairman. In our view, there are two incidental supplementary budgets for Finance which incorporate a variety of measures. I would like to clarify some of them and start with the measures to meet entrepreneurs, such as the suspension of absenteeism. Such generic measures have important unintended side effects. After all, entrepreneurs who do not experience the consequences of the corona measures also benefit from this. Does the Minister agree with me that only entrepreneurs who do experience such effects should be eligible for support? And if so, how will he achieve this? In addition, such measures lead to the potential risk of increasing public debt, which will eventually be partly recovered from citizens. However, according to economists, public debt is the last thing we need to worry about. Given that the interest rate is so low, you can very easily pay off your debt very slowly. Does the Minister agree with these economists? We will have to grow out of this crisis, and that includes targeted public investment. It must be avoided that national and international economies are being cut back towards unrealistically low levels of debt. New European commitments will have to be made, aimed at growth, employment and the functioning of automatic stabilisers. What commitment can we expect from the Minister here? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the proposal Support to mitigate unemployment risks in an emergency, or the SURE package. This puts the impact of the corona crisis on workers first and can therefore count on the warm support of the PvdA. Member States must do everything possible to protect the jobs and incomes of all workers in addition to public health. The SURE proposal also helps Member States to finance it. These measures are necessary for a smooth and strong economic recovery, and that is in our own interest too. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the following. The recovery of the Dutch economy, and hence employment, depends to a large extent on a purchasing power internal market and good relations with the other countries of the European Union. For example, academic research shows that the Dutch economy is 9% larger than it would have been if the Netherlands had not been an EU member. That is why Klaas Knot, President of De Nederlandsche Bank, warmly welcomes solidarity at European level, not least from the Dutch self-interest, and Jan Peter Balkenende, party member of the minister, joins in this. I quote: 'If we continue to think like this, we are going to have real problems'. What action does the Minister take on the appeals of Klaas Knot and Jan Peter Balkenende?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u6	Mrs Sent says that our economy is 9% larger because of the EU. I certainly believe that the overall economy is much larger because of free trade. But the question is not so much whether free trade has increased the economy. The question is whether the euro has played a role in this. And I would like to ask Mrs Sent if she can say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u7	Yes. This free trade is, of course, linked to the euro. To be sure, I have just written down the source of this investigation for the Acts and those who are interested in it. It's called The Cost of Non-Europe, Revisited. It was published by Thierry Mayer, Vincent Vicard and Soledad Zignago. It's a CEPII Working Paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u8	Well, Mr. Van Strien... The floor is yours again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u9	That sounds impressive. Usually that means there's a confusing story behind it. Can you state in clear words what role the euro has actually played in the growth of Europe's economy as a whole? Because if you compare it, you can see that the growth in the countries that do not have the euro is much greater than in the countries that do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u10	Can you do that in a few lines, Mrs. Sent?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u11	Well, first of all, of course, I want to correct it: it's not a confusing story that the academics write down. It is a well-founded argument. The logic is as follows. We in the Netherlands have a huge export surplus. We have an enormous competitive position. Why is that? Because the euro is so cheap. That makes our exports cheap. Why is the euro cheap? Because we are in the euro together with southern Member States, where wages are low and where economic conditions are worse. This makes the northern success the downside of the medal of southern failure. The euro plays an important role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u12	Thank you. Then the floor is to... Mr. Van Strien, short, a third?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u13	One comment. The jug's gonna be in the water so long until she cracks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u14	That won't contradict anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u15	I wholeheartedly endorse that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u16	Following on from Mr Van Strien and the academic research that Mrs Sent is quoting. It might also be good to look at the economic performance of Switzerland, a country that does not have the euro and is not a member of the European Union. You have to look at how economic growth has been in relation to the Netherlands over the past five, ten or twenty years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u17	This type of competition is always complicated, because the situation in the Netherlands is not the same as the situation in Switzerland. In this case, only the Netherlands has been looked at. That is where this result came from. I'm not going to repeat that investigation here behind the speaker chair from my head. But I understand Mr. Frentrop's point very well. It's always complicated. You can't repeat history. That makes that kind of equations difficult, but I am convinced of the careful underpinning in the academic work I referred to earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u18	I am also convinced of all kinds of arguments, but I think it is good to look sharp. You say that the Netherlands is an important exporting country and that we therefore need the euro and the European Union. Then it might be nice to look at Switzerland in the future. That is perhaps even a bigger exporting country than the Netherlands. You could also look at Denmark. Then you have three cases. Then you have the Netherlands, the euro and the European Union, Switzerland...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u19	What's your short supplementary question, Mr. Frentrop?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u20	That we must distinguish between being a member of the European Union and having the euro.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u21	That's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u22	My question is whether next time Mrs Sent would like to distinguish between countries that are members of the European Union and members of the euro, to see what is best.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u23	Thank you. Mrs Sent has just one short answer, and then Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u24	I'm always in favour of scientific research, so I'm very looking forward to what comes out of these kinds of research.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u25	My question is a little along the lines of that. Does Mrs Sent agree with me that it is a pity that we have to have such a fundamental discussion about the usefulness and need of the European Union here in ten minutes with a supplementary budget? Mr Frentrop and Mr Van Strien raise very fundamental points, which of course cannot be properly discussed. Do you agree with me that next year, at least, we should keep the General European Reviews and discuss this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u26	I think that is a very nice proposal. I think it would be much better to conduct such a debate in the calm of the General European Reviews, with careful justifications, than in the margins of a variety of measures needed to deal with the corona crisis now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u27	I don't want to stay out of this academic discussion anyway. I know that Mrs Sent attaches great importance to this. I was triggered by the term "ceteris paribus." Look at two countries that are very similar and are both in the EU, Sweden and Finland, where Sweden does not have the euro and Finland does. This has been extensively analysed in his book The euro and its threat to the future of Europe by Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz, whom I think you are well known in your circles. Then you can see that since the introduction of the euro, the GDP in Finland has fallen slightly below that of Sweden. So I have to say to Mr Van Strien that there are indeed academic arguments why EU trade is independent of the euro. You're throwing everything in one heap. I would like a response from Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u28	That is actually a repeat of the question that has been asked earlier. It's complicated what you compare. I find the study I have quoted convincing because it looks at the Netherlands and looks at what the situation would have been without the euro, without EU membership. That would have meant 9% economic growth. I understand the logic underneath very well. The Netherlands as an exporting country that benefits enormously from the low euro, so I hold on to what I know. I think it is very interesting to do all kinds of other research, but then I refer to a debate where we can discuss it a little more broadly and in depth, namely in the General European Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u29	Mrs Sent is bringing this up, so we should not be running for another debate now. Has this study of yours also considered the enormous transfer union we have now reached, with all the sums we have transferred to countries like Greece and what is now coming up with the new package; the guarantees, the EMF, you name it? Was that included in your study? Because that is, of course, also a reverse side of the coin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u30	Sure. It's not my study, it's from scientists, I'll quote it. It has been carefully substantiated and examined the advantages and disadvantages, and this conclusion emerges from this. It is also research cited by Klaas Knot of De Nederlandsche Bank. That's how I figured it out. In short, it is in our own self-interest that we must show solidarity with our European colleagues. For the PvdA, one thing is obvious. Because of the lifted finger to the heavily affected countries, the Netherlands is on the sidelines. That's damaging to our country. It is significant that Germany took the initiative to remove the European economy. This is vital for a trading country like the Netherlands. Faced with the biggest crisis in post-war history, the PvdA therefore calls on the Minister to opt for a Europe that offers collective security, which all Europeans are longing for at this time. Is he willing to do that? Mr. Chairman. The pan-European guarantee fund to finance high-risk projects, with a focus on SMEs, can also, in principle, count on the support of my group. Why, in principle, and not full-bodied? Because a number of questions remain for the Minister. After all, how does the Minister assess the transparency and public scrutiny of the operations of the European Investment Bank, the EIB? And what role does the environment and social criteria play in decision-making within the EIB? In line with its policy, the EIB will only provide detailed information on the selected companies if the project promoter has not raised any legal objections to their confidentiality. In the context of its recovery plans for COVID-19, the majority of EIB operations will be mediated, which means that the EIB will provide credit lines or guarantees to other financial institutions, commercial banks or national public banks. In these cases, the EIB delegates the decision on which companies will have access to the loans and guarantee programmes to the intermediary banks. Does this mean that an entity as a commercial private bank, outside the reach of the government, determines its own criteria for which companies receive state aid and which do not? And does the Minister consider it desirable that this should take place without strict and binding social, environmental and climate criteria? Mr. Chairman. Europe is a prosperous continent with a strong currency. Europe can therefore itself bear the cost of the corona crisis. Many developing countries and emerging countries cannot do that. The corona crisis puts these countries at the top of the ecological and social challenges they already face. Therefore, the Sustainable Finance Lab calls for a social and sustainable investment agenda through the IMF. The SFL proposes that the IMF publish new special drawing rights (SDRs). Rich countries can then offer their SDRs as gifts and make them exchangeable for their currency. The cabinet does propose an increase in the Dutch contribution to the IMF, but in the form of a loan from DNB to the IMF, for which the Dutch State guarantees. Why doesn't the Minister choose to follow the SFL's proposal? Mr President, I will conclude. We live in a double time, in all kinds of ways. It's a time of threats and opportunities. After all, a crisis offers opportunities for rethinking to learn that the purpose of the economy is to contribute to the quality of life, that the economy must serve society and not the other way around, that we need a strong government that when the crisis is over does not say "we have a huge debt, let's go cut back on the public sector." On the contrary, public authorities must work for an inclusive and sustainable economy. To this end, the PvdA will continue to appeal to the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I call Mr Van Strien on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In October 2011, I made my maiden speech on the amendment of the fiscal state of Finance 2011 related to the European Financial Stability Facility, the predecessor of the ESM. As a newcomer in politics, I predicted the hopeless path that was taken at the time. A year later, in 2012, we had the ESM, which was chased by the Chamber. Since then, we have had Mr Draghi as director of the European Central Bank, with dramatic consequences for interest rates and therefore for our pension system. And now we have the latest find from Brussels: SURE ad 100 billion. I prefer the English pronunciation. The French influence is already strong enough for me within the EU. And then we're gonna get another 750 billion-dollar recovery fund. In the light of experience, this must also be pursued by the Chamber on an afternoon-to-afternoon. In general, I think I can see that the greater the burden the Dutch citizen is burdened with, the shorter the time it takes to chase such a subject through the Chamber. It was a pleasure to note that even Mr Backer agrees with me. It is amazing how we have ever come up with the term 'chambre de réflexion'. So now we have the third incidental supplementary budget on the Emergency Jobs and Economy Package 2.0 and COVID-19 SURE crisis measure. SURE finances forms of reduction of working time for the protection of workers and self-employed persons and some health care measures. Through SURE, the European Commission can commit up to 100 billion in loans to EU Member States between the time of entry into force and 31 December 2022. Then there is the possibility of extension. Loans which are entirely intended for southern Europe, because it is only for them that it is attractive. They can only borrow more expensive on the capital market, while the Netherlands is cheaper on the capital market. Mr. Chairman. All these funds show a rather broad measure of solidarity with the southern countries. These countries have now, first and foremost, been in trouble by not making structural cuts for years. Now that they are so easily relieved of these problems by Draghi and by countries that are heavily cutting back, such as the Netherlands, where taxpayers pay themselves green and yellow, that discipline will of course never come. It goes from bad to worse. Such a Wuhan virus therefore exposes the structural weaknesses in the southern economies mercilessly. If you say that sort of thing, and I do it again now, then you're right to hear that it would be in our own interest. The Minister will probably say that again in his reply. With bankrupt trading partners, you can't do business. No prosperity in Italy would mean that we ourselves would become poor. It's a total bullshit argument. The PVV Group fears the opposite, because what is now going to happen is that, among other things, through SURE, as has been said, a reduction in working time for the protection of workers and self-employed, and some care measures are being financed. But who are these workers in Italy and other southern countries? I can tell you exactly. Over the last few years, the Netherlands has made its economy more flexible in order to compete with, for example, Asia. This means that many employees were forced to become zzp'er or flexworker instead of employee. The Netherlands experienced the highest growth ofzzp'ers and flex workers in Europe. We are currently at about 3 millionzzp'ers and flexworkers. For the flexibility of the Dutch economy, these 3 millionzzp'ers and flexworkers paid with the surrender of their social security. And now these people, plus the other taxpayers, have to pay for social security in non-competitive and non-tax-paying southern Europe in permanent service. I'd like a response from the Minister. Let me now turn to the fifth incidental supplementary budget for Finance 2020 on COOVID-19 measures, and in particular the increase in EIB resources. The European Investment Bank did not want to lag behind in the crisis caused by the Wuhan virus. A pan-European guarantee fund, a fund of 25 billion, has been devised to finance 200 billion in risky projects. The Netherlands immediately guarantees 1.3 billion and immediately writes off 20%. Where the EIB has so far been an institution that in principle did not finance hopeless projects, we are now going to guarantee 1.3 billion for projects of which we are already paying off 260 million, because there is so much loss-making nonsense to be financed. So we already know that in advance. To sum up, for both the third and fifth incidental supplementary budgets, this does not mean that we are going to encourage our trading partners to cooperate with us. On the contrary. In southern Europe, SURE and the EIB are now financing weak loss-making companies, which are going to compete with our own strong companies on the European market. According to the PVV, this has never been a sensible economic policy. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. A further and final point concerns the total guarantee given by this government over the past period in conjunction with the guarantees already in place. The subject was discussed in a legislative consultation in the Lower House and the Minister, seeing that this is going to end, indicated that he could provide such an overview, somewhere between Prinsjesdag and early next year. I thought that was a very spacious interval of time. I would therefore ask the Minister to agree to that review before 1 November of this year. Then we as the First Chamber can possibly involve this in our General Financial Reviews. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u33	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. I call Mr Schalk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u34	Mr. Chairman. If someone is in mortal danger, we must, of course, fire at him. That may be expected from us. If we can help each other, it is only our duty to do so, for example when it comes to medical care, food aid, rescue work and so on. In particular, when it comes to our fellow human beings, we must help, close and far away. Yet even there will be a gradation in that. Take the situation around the corona crisis when it was at its worst. Then, first of all, you will increase ic capacity in your own country. At a time like this, that is where the first responsibility lies. If you're out of capacity, you're helping out. I am grateful to the ic-beds that Germany made available to our country. But that's about life-threatening issues. Of course, help can also be provided in other areas, but that is of a different, lower order than life-based aid. Think about the labour market. If there is a shortage of jobs here, you offer a job that arises first within your own village, city, country before you start helping an unemployed person from any other country. This also applies to the economy, because there are limits to our ability to help. Does the Minister agree with my group? Because these limits are exceeded by the two legislative proposals now before us, the third supplementary budget with a flow of money for job retention towards Europe and the fifth, which is intended for SMEs in Europe. Mr. Chairman. My group believes it is important for Member States to assume their own responsibilities. The Netherlands is doing the same, for example through the NOW scheme. In between, do other Member States have a similar approach? The NOW scheme is aimed at national measures to finance job retention. Much praise to the government for that. This is how we try to stimulate the economy together and to maintain employment. So that is the NOW scheme; the 'now' scheme, we would say in good English. But that third and fifth supplementary budgets. Well, well, well, well, well, that goes a long way! Take that third budget. Member States can borrow money from this to finance national measures to preserve work. This funding has been given an intriguing name: SURE, "sure." According to Mr Frentrop, it could also be "suré." That means "safe," I believe, in French. I choose the English pronunciation,'sure', but also somewhat ironic. SURE has a total of 100 billion. The fifth supplementary budget concerns a fund of 200 billion to support SMEs. On both points, the Netherlands guarantees billions. Only in that fifth budget is the expectation that real costs will be incurred by the possible non-refundability of the loan. If countries do not repay the loan that solves their national problems, it will cost the Netherlands money. I ask the Minister: can we afford that? Both proposals are jointly responsible for problems, including those of France, Italy and so on, which, as some Members have already mentioned, are not making reforms, but in their own countries we are making ends meet. That is why we, as the Netherlands, are in debt for billions. Can the Minister indicate how many billions have been approximated to combat the crisis and its consequences? No matter how much it is, we have to deal with it. But to spend billions now to boost the economy and employment in other countries goes a long way. That is the national responsibility of the other Member States of Europe. The Netherlands has been saving up for years, building buffers. Therefore, the Netherlands was able to rig up the NOW scheme and those schemes for SMEs. It is high time that the other countries also took care of their own economic reality and employment. Why do we not place responsibility for these national economies in those countries themselves? There is also the European Stability Mechanism, the ESM. This is a permanent emergency financial fund providing loans to euro area Member States in financial difficulties. It is a fund of 240 billion where countries can borrow money, also to pay the consequences of corona. That's already operational. Can the Minister indicate whether and, if so, how much has been borrowed or financed from this fund? If so, is that ESM fund now empty and if not, why is it necessary to create additional funds now? Mr. Chairman. It is very clear to the SGP. In the medical field, Member States must help each other, but we are not setting the bar for the impact of corona on the economy as a whole. Nor should the EU be in the Chair of the Member States and resolve problems that Member States are responsible for. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats believes that the Member States themselves should tackle these problems. That's sure. I look forward to the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u35	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I call Mr Backer on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u36	Thanks for cleaning up. That is all happening very carefully. Mr. Chairman. First, a few comments on the process. Lawmaking is setting the course as a captain in the middle of the sea, I paraphrase the well-known sociologist, writer and politician Alexis de Tocqueville. That was in the nineteenth century. Premier Rutte has a contemporary variant on this. He says, with 50% knowledge, make 100% of the decisions. The government's request to the First Chamber of this third and fifth supplementary budgets goes one step further on the scale of decision-making in uncertainty. Minister Hoekstra gives us 5% of the knowledge and 10% of the time it normally takes and asks us to decide 100%. Mr Van Strien had seen that very well. He already guessed my guts about that. However, there is the difference, our group will continue to assume its responsibility, but considers the treatment of these supplementary budgets to be the last act in an exceptional period. That's assuming we can control the pandemic. Mr. Chairman. It's the first time I've been here. Where's the clock anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u37	Front right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u38	Oh, there. I was, of course, fascinated by the government table, as you can see from my speech. The impact of the corona pandemic on public health and the disruption of entire sectors of our economy, our society and social life have been very profound in recent months. It has not formally led to state emergency law, but it has been very far-reaching. There have been very drastic interventions. I would like to say here, at this last meeting before the recess, that the Dutch people showed themselves at the lockdown on their best side. For this contribution from the D66 Group, this also proved to be a little bit from my introduction to the adage from the old parliamentary history: If it cannot be done as it should be done, then it must be done as it can. I believe that this statement and political collective wisdom of Jan de Koning is. This should not become a habit, but this is not a normal situation either. At this time, Parliament has fulfilled its tasks as it were in an emergency generator. I speak for myself: it was at times uncomfortable if you do have the responsibility as a member of the States General, but you sit behind your desk and you wait for the next Teams meeting. However, we are in solidarity with numerous organisations, institutions, companies, young parents, teachers, the elderly. And there are even more difficult sectors than we have; much more difficult ones. There are sectors where it has been much more difficult to manage. This applies nationally, but also internationally. There are regions where things are much worse than we are, where the government has also been less effective in the pandemic. The sad low is, of course, the overcrowded refugee camps in the world. This is how I got to the content. First I would like to talk about the Netherlands itself. The emergency packages that were and are being discussed in this house yesterday and today will increase cumulatively the amount of national spending significantly. And tax revenue is being postponed, so on the revenue side it is still disappointing. At the last estimate, in the Spring Note of 24 April this year, the EMU balance was estimated at -11.8%, and the debt at 65.2%. What is, I ask the Minister, the most recent insight into these percentages? The increase in the budget deficit and the debt ratio is evident, and later loans will also prove irrecoverable. There has been little accountability because of the speed, because of the urgency. There is, in spite of that, broad consensus that the government, as an investor and investor in the economy, must take these measures on a temporary basis. Mr Sent has just spoken about this. It is actually interesting that the ideological discussion about a large or small government, a patient or interventional government, has been temporarily suspended. I even heard Mr Kox yesterday say that this is more his government than the previous governments. To be honest, I did not notice that in other speeches by Mr Kox. In the circles of my party, with our social liberal values, it is in any case uncontested that these interventions and active, proactive interventions by the government were necessary. We support and praise the government for this. Of course, many of these schemes, none of them can actually create a commitment to results for society on behalf of the government. Emergency dressings have been put in place; let us be honest about that. Emergency bandages have been fitted. Unemployment will rise in the autumn. Households will lose income. And there are a lot of people and companies that will have to refocus on the future. And then there will be new choices on the table. Is there going to be a third package or not? What's that gonna look like? Mr. Chairman. Of course, the spokesmen for the National Budget, who serve here for a little longer, note that neither in the Spring Paper nor now, the government is talking about austerity in the coming period. This raises the question of what the Stability Pact still means there. We had the 60% debt ratio, the 3%. They're abandoned. But what would replace that? Can the Minister give an indication of this? Mr. Chairman. My group still has a question with regard to that third package, but it is also playing now. Is there sufficient capacity, and is there sufficient vision as to how strategic industrial policy will be conducted? Because now and then companies come along, like IHC, KLM, even Suitsupply, but how are we going to do that structured? And is there any official capacity for that? 'Cause we didn't really do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u39	Quite rightly, attention is being paid to the European agreements and to the fact that they are struggling. That is also one of the reasons why a number of countries outside the euro area have done better, because we have had to make terrible cuts in response to the previous crisis. Mr Backer offered an opening to the Minister to make other agreements and called on him to do so. I am very curious to see what kind of agreements Mr Backer considers feasible, agreements within which the automatic stabilisers can do their job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u40	I am a little surprised that Mrs Sent is actually rejecting the cuts made by Minister Dijsselbloem with a firm hand as an aberration: we should not have done that. While I feel that we now have a possibility and buffers, I think you have also mentioned those buffers yourself to do what we can now do. I don't have the wisdom. We now know that the 60% and 3% are deserted. But we don't know what came for it. It might be a while. I don't have in my instruments that I know the right numbers. I believe that they will be partly driven and partly the results of policies that are now being pursued in the EU. I do think that the strict standards from the period we have been behind us will be defined differently in the coming period, with more flexibility and more customisation. I'm actually saying that more because I think that's wise than knowing how it's gonna go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u41	However, I would like to make one final attempt to get a little more focus in Mr Backer's reply, although I understand, of course, that it is very complicated. Many economists call for a government debt of 80%, which is perfectly sustainable, given the current rate of interest and the growth expectations of the economy. How does Mr Backer look at that percentage?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u42	I have the big advantage of not being an economist. That is why I am always concerned with a certain suspicion of the firm beliefs of economists. I'm looking at that a little more holistic. I don't know if 80 is the right percentage, but I'd like to reason the other way around. We have a very ambitious agenda in this country. We have incredibly big choices to make for the climate goals. We're gonna cut down the natural gas, as the Spring Note says. We are going to do some major unforeseen expenses, such as the recovery of the surcharges. All these things will have to be done. Then there is also a normal budgetary policy, and we also know that the cost of public health will continue to grow, the biggest growth in all departments. I therefore find it presumptuous to say what the correct percentage is. I don't know. I know that, if it is up to my group, we will not return to the 60%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u43	Mr. Otten. Oh, Mrs. Sent. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u44	Third interruption, as a conclusion. I think we find each other that we should not confuse resources and goals. A budget deficit of 3% and a public debt of 60% were seen as targets, while it must be instruments to achieve other goals, and I endorse the objectives that Mr Backer has just set out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u45	I would like to sum up the comments made by Mrs Sent and Mr Backer. They're both a little bit right. The common factor in this problem is the party colleague of Mrs Sent, Mr Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who indeed, as you say, stuck to the 3% standard as a sacred bean, which led to a huge austerity policy in 2012 to 2014, leading to a double dip, for me the reason to go into politics, and the same Dijsselbloem who for some reason failed to maintain the KLM interest in Air France-KLM. So yes: you are both right, but you should look above all at Mr Dijsselbloem. Does Mr Backer agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u46	I was wondering if the question was coming. However, I am surprised that Mr Otten is taking on the task of synthesising. I think that is a nice parliamentary development. As a matter of fact, yesterday there was a piece in the FD: where did the 3% actually come from? There are all kinds of discussions about that. One thing that my group has always played is that there is also a disciplining factor in it. That's why I'm always a little relative about the truth of economists about 60 et cetera. There was a need to discipline the budget. And then the other point comes, and that is an incredibly persistent misunderstanding. The budget has generally grown. There's been less growth. There have been real cuts in some aspects and some departments, but not others at all. The image that a large scale balding took place in the Dutch government and among the population under the leadership of Dijsselbloem is simply not real.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u47	Mr Otten, one short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u48	Well, not in the government, no. It's only grown. No, the bald blow has ended up in the working and enterprising Netherlands. But I agree with you, that 3% is rather arbitrary. There has also been no disciplinary action, as most countries have not taken any interest in it. To get back to that 60%...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u49	No, Mr. Otten, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u50	I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u51	What is your short question in your interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u52	I note that synthesis takes more time than a question. May I continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u53	Yes, please. But Mr Schalk also has a short supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u54	It is a pity that the previous interruption was cancelled. I was also very pleased by the synthesis of the binding role which Mr Otten has just shown. Mr Backer has just mentioned in a small debate with Mrs Sent a very nice pride of enormous tasks that we as the Netherlands are facing. If you were gonna add that in cash, I don't know where we're gonna end up. How does he look at this budget which is now being discussed and with which, in addition to this enormous task, we are making a huge financial commitment to other countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u55	I think that Mr Schalk and I are fundamentally opposed to that part of the policy. We have stood shoulder to shoulder with the constructive three at the time to put the budget in order, but internationally... I think that is part of the discussion and that is why I was just interrupting the question of whether we should not hold general reviews. What is underexposed is that the cost is for the benefit. You can always put the contradiction in the sphere of debt and fine.................................................................................................................. All at your service, but there are a number of countries in southern Europe that have intervened incredibly hard. Look at Spain, look at Portugal. Much has also happened in Greece. A lot has also happened in Italy. Only, it's often structured differently than we do. That incredible self-esteem that we all have it so perfect for each other in the Netherlands... While, northern Italy is richer than the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u56	Mr. Backer, may I ask you to give me a brief answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u57	Yes, but I'm being challenged, Mr. Chairman. You are right to call me to order. This leads to the continuation of my speech, in which I will say that I agree with these investments. In fact, I believe that this is also where the cost comes in. It is solidarity and understood self-interest. I'm gonna use these words later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u58	Mr Schalk has a brief supplementary question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u59	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. If the costs go for the benefit, you also have to see which costs you can bear. When I have heard Mr Backer himself about the enormous burdens that are still coming for this country, I wonder if you are doing justice to your national debt, let me put it this way, by making a huge contribution now to what those sometimes even richer countries themselves would have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u60	Mr Backer, please continue your speech immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u61	Mr Schalk's thinking is that we have separate countries that have separate economies, where there is no transfer union. But that transfer union has been in place for a long time. I think that's the fundamental difference between his thinking and mine. That transfer union has been in place for a long time. Those economies are connected. The largest proceeds from investments in Slovakia are realised by Dutch companies. Think of the aid to Greece and the aid to Italy. Why is it offered? This is done out of well-understood self-interest. Dutch banks had large loans out there. We are connected and intertwined. The idea is that we are giving money to countries that have done nothing themselves, but it is out of understood self-interest and it is out of solidarity, because some regions simply need it, as I have just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u62	I'm going to turn your clock back on now, with your permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u63	Mr President, I see Mr Schalk still threatening, but you are speaking about the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u64	Mr. Schalk just announced it was his last short question, but this is now his last short question, I understand. It's getting really short now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u65	That is your observation, Mr President, and not mine, but let me be very brief. Mr Backer just mentioned aid to those other countries. Why can't this be done through, for example, the ESM? The stability mechanism has set this form of solidarity in motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u66	Mr Backer, and then continue your follow-up immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u67	That question has just been asked to the Minister. I also like to pass it on to him, because I don't have the right answer to that myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u68	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u69	Supplementary budgets also anticipate expenditure on jobs and incomes in the EU and in the world. There are three parts. We've just talked about it briefly. We have SURE and the COVID-19 related funds. We have the EIB contribution, the EIB's new fund and the extension of the guarantees. And for the world, we have IMF facilities. Unlike some Members in this Chamber, I commend the cabinet for making these choices, because in all three facilities the Netherlands shows a form of solidarity that transcends national borders. There's nothing wrong with solidarity, and it's always gonna cost. The IMF will have a borrowing capacity of more than one billion. The Minister mentioned this amount in the Lower House. I think he means dollars, but I'd like to get confirmation that he does. Mr. Chairman. The European debate has not yet been concluded, as has already been shown. There's gonna be an important discussion. It will take place in July and perhaps later under the German Presidency. My group would like to call on the government to maintain this broad view of solidarity and well-understood self-interest in the European Commission. The Minister would like to talk about "solidar and sensible." My group does not think it is wise to continue on the route with the economical four. It might have been tactically nice and it might have been tactically wise.I doubt it anyway.But I don't think that's the case anymore. The Minister is now free from list-topper troubles. He could be full of it. He just had time last night to prepare this debate. I think he's very happy about that. Mr. Chairman. It would be good to say in our own country that participating in investment in the EU is also important for our country. In 2019 alone, the EIB provided 3 billion in loan facilities for the Dutch economy. I see Mr Van Ballekom now looking up. He knows the numbers even better. It is 3 billion for the Dutch economy. It's not all going everywhere. It also benefits us. The Prime Minister says I'm in no hurry. That seems to me to be a very unwise attitude. He's in a hurry. Poverty is being suffered. Decisions are taken in Member States that are not optimal, because European funds cannot be counted on. The D66 Group expects this government to be constructive, supportive and sensible. Mr President, I see that I am in the red, but I will finish this for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u70	You have 17 seconds left. No, 16.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u71	I'm gonna take advantage of that. The time for practice on the outskirts is over. I was a jumper in my young years. What you do on the outskirts doesn't matter. It's what you do in the ring. The one with the dirty four on the front lot has been nice. Now it's about cutting the real knot. Mr. Chairman. I say in advance that we will be happy to support a package that goes one step further, but we will of course only know afterwards what all the things, including our own emergency packages, have done, how much better it could have been and even how much more human lives we could have saved. We can't see that until after. But I would like to draw my attention to my opening remarks in this debate. These are my last words, Mr President-in-Office, namely that it was 'the direction at sea' for the cabinet. What our group can contribute here today is that we approve the supplementary budget proposals. I will advise the D66 Group to do so if the Minister can give us satisfactory answers to the questions I have asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u72	Thank you, Mr. Backer. Finally, Mr Vendrik has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u73	Thank you, Mr President. The cabinet has exceptionally chosen, through two emergency packages of jobs and economy, to support people and businesses in the corona crisis. As far as the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is concerned, that is more than right. After all, it is up to the authorities to limit the inevitable economic damage caused by restrictive measures and to drag citizens and entrepreneurs through this difficult time. It is very important for my group to monitor the balance between all the sectors affected and, in order to ensure efficient use, to link the sustainable transition to the aid as closely as possible. We were just talking about that. It is also about making room for an adequate European and global response. With all the economic misery here, it is really good to keep an eye on the misery that has arisen elsewhere in Europe and, above all, globally. Mr. Chairman. Both supplementary laws, the third and fifth supplementary budgets, comply with this as far as my group is concerned. My group supports the government's decision to give a guarantee to the SURE programme for 5.7 billion. It is a good thing that the cabinet, although it did not do so automatically, is providing 1.3 billion in support of the European Guarantee Fund, which will enable the European Investment Bank to allocate 200 billion in funding. Especially now that the European economy is heavily affected by large differences in national support, it is good to counter this. Mr. Chairman. In preparing for this debate, I once again stumbled upon a report from the European Commission, requested by the European Council, which came out on 27 May. It highlighted the huge differences in the impact of the corona crisis in Europe, but also the national response. The conclusion of this report by the European Commission is rather dramatic. The internal market is under pressure, there is no convergence, but divergence and there is uneven recovery. Then it is logical that the European Commission should discuss with the Member States how to correct or at least correct the major imbalance that is now being created. In figures it was also an impressive report: nearly 2,000 billion in state aid-like facilities, including 1,000 billion for Germany. It is therefore not the case that massive aid is being given in the southern countries and that zombie companies are being maintained there; it is precisely the case that in a large country like Germany, the greatest support is being given to the economy, with major consequences for the internal market and for the level playing field. It is therefore natural that the European Commission, as has been said, should examine with the Member States how to promote the integrity of that internal market. I would like to hear from the Minister whether this is indeed the correct reading of the Commission's report of 27 May. Mr. Chairman. That's Europe. Then the global corona crisis. The seriousness of this is demonstrated by the fact that, if I am right, some 100 countries have now applied to the IMF for emergency aid. Such a massive rise has never happened to my knowledge. It is therefore very good that this cabinet makes room in this supplementary budget to contribute through DNB 620 million to the IMF's Poverty Reduction and Growth Trust programme. This also raises the question of whether the IMF can cope with the large number of applications and whether the IMF has sufficient funding space, given the large number of countries involved in emergency aid because financial markets are more or less closed to them. Is it logical, then, that the Dutch contribution to the IMF should decrease on balance, at the same time as the bilateral loan agreement on balance is reduced by EUR 7.7 billion? I'd like an explanation from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I would like to express my support for Mrs Sent's question on the beautiful plan of the Sustainable Finance Lab. Mr. Chairman. I repeat my question from the last debate with the Ministers for Finance and Foreign Affairs to the Cabinet about the AIV's proposal to provide an additional 1 billion for international emergency aid. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance supports this plea. The Foreign Minister replied here in the First Chamber a few weeks ago that this is being taken up in the normal budgetary cycle. Now I had the idea that that normal budgetary cycle is no longer there, so I ask the Minister of Finance to explain why the cabinet is choosing this route now that the need is so great, especially globally. Finally, Mr President. The cabinet is now preparing the Millions Note 2021. As the Minister knows, my group prefers to make a broad welfare note of this in future; right now! We assume that the cabinet will not only support today's economy, but will also work on active recovery and will do everything in its power to drive forward the sustainable transitions that we so desperately need. The European Commission has made an excellent move here with its package for green and just recovery. The enthusiasm of the cabinet for this plan can also be heard in this Chamber today. The acceleration of the implementation of the Dutch Climate Agreement is needed and the famous investment fund we have been hearing about for ten months now needs to come. Can we count on that, I ask the Minister of Finance. I'd like a response. My group also calls on the cabinet to pay great attention to the cultural and creative sectors. There is a good chance that even after the summer this sector will have to surrender in a more or less lockdown-like situation. As we exchanged yesterday with the ministers of EZK and SZW, we know that this sector is particularly vulnerable and highly fragmented. As a result, many measures, including those contained in the second emergency package, do not fall into the sector. A guarantee scheme does not help if you know that bank financing in such a sector is simply an exception rather than a rule. A TOGS scheme is nice if you have a work address, but the thousands of self-employed in the creative sector work from home. This kind of practical blockade prevents the cultural and creative sector from taking advantage of the emergency package, part two. My group is calling for an additional package for this sector. I would like to receive a commitment from this Minister. Mr President, then the latter. The care staff has worked very hard. But without intervention, according to the June report of the Central Planning Bureau, there is a risk of a decrease in disposable income for nurses and caregivers in 2021. Surely that should be impossible for a vital sector? My group is asking the cabinet to make structural room for an improvement in salaries and to make proposals for this at Princess Day. Please respond from the Minister. I'm considering a motion on this point. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u74	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-4.u75	I'm suspending the meeting for lunch.
