ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the general budget, Section 35570-III. I would like to welcome everyone, especially the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u2	I give the floor to Mr Martin Bosma, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. On the day after the death of super-indo Eddie van Halen, tonight I look back at our relationship with the belt of emerald. It suddenly fell out of the sky: the king was in Indonesia and suddenly apologized for alleged excessive violence by our countrymen in the Dutch East Indies. Politics The Hague was completely surprised. The vice prime ministers, the coalition parties, they all knew nothing. The Council of Ministers hadn't been told. Those excuses are all the more strange, because there is a major investigation in progress, which looks at violence at the time of police action. We're waiting for the results, so why are they apologizing already? Mr. Chairman. I've been Vice President of the Chamber for ten years. In this position I was allowed to lay a wreath on behalf of the Chamber several times at the Indian Remembrance in Roermond. That's always touching. You see those vulnerable men there at age. To be able to walk, they are often supported by a family member. You see their chests full of medals and you know that every medal stands for a complete movie. All those 120,000 men and women who went to India in Her Majesty's uniform were all heroes. They fought for a noble cause. They fought to put an end to the Bersiap, a horrific genocide that killed thousands and thousands of Dutch people. People who had often survived the jappen camp too much, were then tortured, raped or tweaked, or chopped to pieces, by mad pemudas, disaster-crackers, poppers or jihadists. It was an ethnic cleansing against Dutch. God knows how many there are in those mass graves. Why the wallowing in guilt and penance? Why always hate ourselves against our own people, our own culture, against our parties, street names, statues, our VOC and our Black Piet? Why is colonialism suddenly the source of all evil? Even an Indonesian nationalist, Mr Salim, who spent fifteen years in prison in the Boven-Digoel penal camp, writes insanely praised things about three centuries of Dutch people in the belt of emerald. He writes about how our countrymen fought against malaria, plague, leprosy and trachoma and wild animals. The Dutch built the roads, schools, universities, libraries and museums. The Dutch built ports, cities, villages and airports. The Dutch were involved in agriculture, forestry and mining. Dutchmen created a miracle on the other side of the world. We should be proud of that. A great thing was done there. Really, no Indonesian is waiting for an apology. I have the following questions for the Prime Minister. One. What problem is solved with the King's apology? Two. Is it true that it has never been discussed in the Council of Ministers? Three. Were the King's apologies all spontaneous and improvised on the spot? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Smalls on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u5	Thank you, Mr President. A colleague from another party recently told me that he could predict what I would say today. The prophecy was: the king is doing very well and so is the Prime Minister. Honestly, that's about an important part of my message. Mr. Chairman. Symbols and traditions are important for a country. Joint memories and shared emotions form the basis for a country in which you solve problems together. Especially now because of corona, but also because of other causes, which are at stake for many people, a hold may be even more important than ever. When I go back in my own memories and think of beautiful things that we have collectively experienced as a society, the royal house and the king often play an important role. For example, the Elfstedentocht in 1985 and 1986. In 1986, the 18-year-old Willem-Alexander also participated. I remember that very well. I really wanted to go to Friesland, but I just had to go to school. There were some brave guys who skipped school and went there, but luckily they were punished later. But I also have other memories, such as the many Queen's Days, but also the very impressive performance of the king at the MH17 disaster or recently the four-mein commemoration on an empty Dam. All these events, in which the king happened or did not play a major role, have made a great impression on me. I think that for many Dutch people the royal house is connected with beautiful or impressive memories in our lives. As far as I am concerned, that is exactly what they should have: a stable and binding role, over the parties, not the left and not the right, everyone can be proud of it, but everyone can also benefit from it in difficult times. In the eulogy of the throne, the king said that we will soon express this connection under the heading of "attention to each other." Yesterday, the Prime Minister kicked this off. However, I do wonder what the Prime Minister has in mind, what effect he intends to achieve and how we will shape it from the government. Mr. Chairman. When the King's budget was announced, the budget we are talking about today, there was some fuss about the payment to the members of the Royal House. I think it's a good thing that we have the Royal House Financial Statute Act, a law that regulates payments for the Royal House in detail. The purpose of this law is, of course, to prevent the annual discussion. But, without really wanting to go into detail, a small question: is it true that if the wage development of the civil servants deviates from the prospects of the CPB, the benefit to the Royal House moves along, and thus possibly moves down? And if I understand correctly, the prospects of the CPB are the origin of the King's payment calculation. As another symbol of shared memory and emotions, a motion of the VVD has been adopted by the Chambers of Parliament during the previous budget debate. That motion asked to make 5 May a day off. This year, the year of 75 years of liberation, there is much attention to the war, but the purpose of the motion was to celebrate that liberation together each year. I understand very well that in a time when companies are trying with pain and difficulty to keep their heads above water, they really have something else on their heads than an extra day off. But can the Prime Minister indicate what happened following this motion, what is the situation and whether there are any steps to be taken to ensure that 5 May will be a day off for as many people as possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u6	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Over the last few months, we have seen the Prime Minister frequently in the Chamber, in debates on the coronavirus and in debates on Europe. Today we talk to him again about his own ministry. We do that almost exclusively when his budget is on the agenda. Next week, the Prime Minister will be Prime Minister for ten years. In itself, that is a fine milestone and therefore my congratulations on his crystal anniversary as Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. Since the Prime Minister is in office for almost ten years, I think it would be a good idea to ask him how he looks at the past ten years. What developments has he seen in the past ten years in the prime ministership? In other words, how has the premiership as far as he is concerned changed over the past ten years? I am genuinely curious to see his views on the development of his position over the past decade and on the developments he expects in the coming period. Mr. Chairman. Apart from the differences in content that GroenLinks regularly has with this Prime Minister, I would like to express my appreciation for his great commitment in recent years. And then comes the "but"! I'm not always happy with the Prime Minister's performance. For example, I mention his comments on 'fuck off to your own country'. It may have been a while ago, but it still hurts people like me, people with a migrant background. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister is the first to have ultimate responsibility for the unity of government policy among equals. In that light, I think he is the first person to address when there are more fundamental points about the role of the government. The question of ministerial responsibility and the division of roles between government and parliament is such a matter. Earlier this year we received an unsolicited opinion from the Council of State on ministerial responsibility. It is good that we received a response from the cabinet this week, even before this budget, to this opinion, so thank you for that. It is too far-reaching to discuss the whole opinion with the Prime Minister here today, because I am sure that we will also be discussing it with the Minister for the Interior. However, I would like to discuss a few points with the Prime Minister here today. Mr. Chairman. The government writes in its response that it would like to enter into dialogue with the Chamber and the civil service in order to work on improving confidence. Can the Prime Minister explain exactly how he sees this and what his expectations are? The government also states that it shares the view that constitutional intelligence is a cornerstone of our democratic system. My group welcomes that. In recent years, however, we have seen in practice that there has been some regular discussion on the scope of Article 68 of the Constitution. The Chamber unanimously adopted motions from Mr Omtzigt. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister whether he can confirm that the government fully accepts the interpretation of Rule 68 which the Chamber has formulated by means of these motions. As far as I am concerned, this remains too vague in the reaction of the cabinet. So please have a clear response from the Prime Minister on this point. A final and recurring point concerning the information position of the Chamber is the timely information. In the cabinet response, the cabinet writes that the Prime Minister regularly calls for attention to this in the Council of Ministers. The President of the Chamber also points out the dissatisfaction of the Chamber on several occasions. The Court can only do its job properly if the information is complete and timely. Nevertheless, we will continue to be regularly informed through the media, and I fear, in the light of the forthcoming elections, that this will happen more often. Can the Prime Minister explain how things are going so frequently after all? Mr. Chairman. We are also discussing the King's budget here today. Let me pay tribute from this place to the way in which the king has shown himself to be involved in the corona crisis. I also think, like many other people, back to the impressive statues and the speech at the death remembrance on Dam Square. However, GroenLinks still has a number of critical questions about the budget. We see that next year there will again be a considerable increase in the budget, a 5% increase, while the pandemic causes many people to become unemployed and companies to close down. Is this still to be explained to many citizens, even if this is a logical consequence of the legal agreements contained in the Royal House Financial Statute Act? After all, we see in society that people are constantly asking questions about the level of the budget. The tricky thing about that discussion, I think, is that on the one hand we have the constitutional anchor that the king is setting up his own house, but on the other hand we want to be able to follow closely as a Chamber and as a society how taxpayers' money is spent. So we also want to be able to assess whether the financial resources in the budget are in line with what we, as a society and parliament, think is an effective use of resources. An additional difficulty is that various expenditures are on the budgets of other ministries. This doesn't always make things as clear as possible for us. It is also not good for the authority of the Head of State and of the Government when there is always discussion about compensation. Does the Prime Minister share this? How does he see his own role as a responsible ruler in this discussion? Mr. Chairman. The General Court was also critical of the accountability of the Royal House's budget. The auditor of state expenditure advocates greater transparency on the compensation of equipment maintenance and personnel, the so-called B component. I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister how he looks at that. Mr. Chairman. My group thinks it is a good idea to periodically check whether the creation of constitutional benefits and the tax exemption still fit well with the expenditure that is being incurred and at the present time. The current system of fees and tax exemptions has not been revised for a long time. The latest update of the Royal House Financial Statute Act dates back to 2008. And the core of the current system dates back to the 1970s. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister whether he agrees with this. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u8	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. Mr Van der Molen has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u9	Mr. Chairman. Everything's different this year. We weren't in the Knight's Room. We were in the Great Church. And the king rightly began his eulogy with a word of admiration and thanks to all those who, in care and elsewhere in society, do everything possible to cope with the corona crisis. The King and the Queen have shown this admiration and thanks for their work visits to the care, but also to sectors that have been hit very hard by the corona crisis. As far as the CDA is concerned, the king summarized it nicely with the sentence: "The Netherlands has proved in the corona crisis to be responsible, saamhorig and flexible. Let's keep it up as long as it takes. And let us derive trust from it for the future." I wanted to repeat those words because, as far as we are concerned, they were very striking. We do not have so many questions about the general affairs budget. Only we see that the Agency for Public and Communication incurs additional costs, especially due to the great appeal made to them because of COOVID-19-related questions. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the staff of this service very much for the extra work they have done, because we have talked about a lot of people, but this group has not yet been mentioned. Here's to it. Mr. Chairman. Traditionally, prior to examining the King's budget, all the necessary has been said about the costs of our royal house and the allowance received by the members of the Royal House. As far as the CDA is concerned, the discussion is often too one-sided, both from the perspective of the value of the Royal House for society and from the perspective of the economic doors they open to our country. But in economic bad times, as we are experiencing them now, the criticism of the fairly large amounts, understandably, is also somewhat greater than usual. It focuses in particular on the annual increases which are almost automatic for good reasons. That's how we agreed. There is a vulnerability for the king, if only because it leads to discussion every year. I therefore agree with the questions put to the Prime Minister by Mr Smals. Is it indeed so that in the future, if it is an automatism, we can sometimes see a reduction instead of an increase? Mr. Chairman. On Princess Day, the government announced that the information of the government should be accessible to everyone. But a week later, the NOS headlined: "Governments break rules for accessible websites." Some important websites were mentioned, for example coronatest.nl, where people can request a coronatest. It does not meet the accessibility requirements. I ask the Prime Minister, on the basis of his responsibility for the communication of the government, including in the area of accessibility, what steps he intends to take at least to adapt that site, coronatest.nl, with priority so that everyone can make use of it. Mr. Chairman. A few weeks ago, this house talked about the recognition of the Dutch Sign Language. I do not need to explain how central the use of what I call "the sign interpreter" has become. That law has broad support here in the Chamber. One part of this is the use of Dutch Sign Language interpreters in crisis situations. As far as the CDA is concerned, this should be an integral part of the wider communication of the government. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether it is possible, on the way to the next General Affairs budget, to come up with a plan of action in this area to see how we can use Dutch Sign Language very consistently, in the full communication of the government. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to add a very practical proposal. We can't call them that anymore, but we know the P.O. Box 51 commercials on TV in the Netherlands. As CDA, we often get the question of why there is not standard subtitles. There are also people who cannot hear that, but want to be able to follow the message. I would very much like to hear a commitment from the Prime Minister that in future this will be a standard of subtitles. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u10	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u11	After Willem Drees, Mark Rutte is the most influential post-war prime minister. And, Mr President, not a day goes by that I do not regret this. Ten years now Mark Rutte is Prime Minister and in the media I read remarkable analyses about this, for example that the Prime Minister would have no vision. Well, that seems strong to me for a politician who has dominated politics for ten years. Each party that ruled with him, from the CDA to the Labour Party, was decimated in subsequent elections. All parties working with him, from the PVV to GroenLinks, got a slap on the wrist. That would not have worked if this Prime Minister had no vision. I must also say that he is not only the most influential, but also, in my opinion, the most ideological prime minister since the old Drees. A politician who has not chosen ideology, but appears to have become one: a personification of market thinking, an icon of neoliberalism. Where did it start, Mr. Chairman? Let's keep an eye on that, too. Still like a JOVD ball, like 13 in a dozen. In 2002 he became Secretary of State and in 2006 leader of the VVD, but was politically hardened by Rita Verdonk, who challenged his leadership and won more votes in the elections than he did. It was also an ideological battle between law and order and market thinking. He's thinking about it right now. But this hard struggle has also detected him, as they say in cycling: a tough and harshness that he needed to become a successful Prime Minister from 2010. Successful for the VVD, I'll say. In 2011, Emile Roemer asked him during the General Reviews about his ideas about society. The new Prime Minister's reply was telling: "We are dealing with the world, we are sparing and we are trying to put finances in order." Later he talked about living together as making money together. More market, more responsibility; it is a policy that has been written on him. But, Mr President, it's also a dated thought, the credit crisis and the corona crisis have shown us. Mark Rutte is, in my opinion, the personification of neoliberal thinking, a market belief which has dominated politics in The Hague for so long, but which is now rapidly wear and tear. That also makes this Prime Minister look like an icon of the past. A man so connected to a past tense, how can he shape a new future? How could he run another policy without denying himself? I sincerely wonder and I wonder how the Prime Minister himself sees it. I must say, however, that a Prime Minister who had Louis Asscher abolish the social workshops and let Jesse Klaver put an end to the funding of studies, you will understand, I would like to keep a little distance from that, rather than a few centuries or four. Because what we could find each other in was in the struggle for the political memory of Johan van Oldenbarnevelt. The investigation's gonna be there. We're gonna do the greatest statesman justice. Is there anything the Prime Minister can tell us about the state of play? I would also like to talk briefly with the Prime Minister tonight about principles, for example that no one who performs a public function and is paid with public money has to earn more than the Prime Minister, a standard laid down in the Top Income Standards Act. The Royal House costs about 50 million. The members of the Royal House get nearly 9 million for their own expenses, nearly 7 million for their expenses and nearly 2 million for their own income: 1 million for Willem-Alexander, 5.5 tonnes for Beatrix, almost 4 tonnes for Maxima and almost 3 tonnes for Amalia when she is 18. The prime minister doesn't get two tons. Then, of course, there's another difference. The Prime Minister pays taxes on his income just like any other Dutchman, but the members of the Royal House do not have to. They have a tax exemption, a privilege. Now, of course, the members of the Royal House are all special, but for taxes we are all equal. Why doesn't the Prime Minister agree? I saw that two election programmes have been published so far, those of the SP and those of D66. I also liked reading D66's two points, the tax exemption, and the income of the members of the Royal House should not be higher than that of the Prime Minister. That was also in the election programme. I didn't see it in the coalition agreement. I am going to table two motions in the second term, and I am delighted that Mr Sneller is going to support them and hopefully will also sign them. From left to right market thinking is carried for grave. The many years of faith in neoliberalism have been crushed. We've seen that a lot here in the Chamber. It's widely spoken. And if this prime minister, this icon of market thinking, continues, we have to wait and see. That's what I believe we'll hear in December. But I don't know if this Prime Minister can pursue a different policy. He is who he is. But should he remain Prime Minister, if he continues to pursue his neoliberal market policy, I do think it is important to do this well, to clarify what is public and what is private, which must be organised through democracy and what is organised through the market. What can the market do and what cannot the market do? The Prime Minister will agree with me that the market is characterised by the entrepreneurs, real entrepreneurs who take their own risks and invest them themselves. If they succeed, they can get rich, and if they fail, the business goes bankrupt. That is why I put a question to the Prime Minister: if we do not want services to go bankrupt, do they hear on the market? I don't think so. That's basic economics, isn't it? I'll ask the Prime Minister what he thinks shouldn't go bankrupt. Hospitals, can they go bankrupt? House corporations, can they go bankrupt? D.A.s, energy companies and system banks, which we need to save if they're gonna fall? What, according to the Prime Minister, should go bankrupt and what should not and what should not be organised through the market and what should be organised through democracy? I look forward to hearing the Prime Minister's views. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u12	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. I'm going to see Mrs. Chicken now. We deviate from the list of speakers, but this has been done in good consultation. Mrs. Kuik, on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u13	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much to Mr Sneller for the collegiality. I'll be back later, but I need a break. After singing praises to the Prime Minister, in which he is also challenged to present a vision, I think I will come up with a very modest wish list in this debate. That concerns the Royal House first. The Royal House is quite popular throughout the Netherlands. I also think they do a lot of good work for us, including abroad. At the same time, we can be critical of what money they receive and how they deal with it. That is what my first question is about. The King gets an income of 1 million. The other 5.1 million is a B component and we don't really know what it is. Mr Sneller and I have tabled a motion for a resolution which has also managed to be transparent in any case, as the General Court also requires. The General Court of Auditors is an institution, an organisation, which we all have very high standards with each other. My first modest question to the Prime Minister is why he ignores that opinion of the General Court. The second is why he did not meet us there, when we tabled a very decent motion, which also passed and we are still living in a democracy. At least that's what I thought yesterday and today. Two. Princess Amalia's allowance: 1.6 million. It's a hell of a scholarship. Perhaps that is very relevant, perhaps that is very useful, but I would also like to know what it is based on, how it is built up and whether it fits within the present time. So I would also like to be accountable and also an explanation. I'd like a response. The third point concerns the position of the King in the Council of State. This has become more and more a symbolic function. At the same time, of course, the key question remains why we should keep it as it is and why we should not formally distance it. Finally, Mr President, I would like to endorse Mr Van der Molen's comments on the accessibility of the entire state service. We have indeed adopted the bill on the recognition of Dutch sign language in the House of Representatives. The colleagues of the First Chamber are going to vote on this on 13 October next week. A number of fine steps have already been taken with regard to crisis communication, but we still have a lot to do. Think of Prince's Day. Think of other important debates. I believe that the Prime Minister, as statesman of the entire Empire, can still take important steps in this regard. I would like to comment on this point. Mr President, that was it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u14	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "I will never forget the National Death Remembrance of 4 May 2020. It was unreal and very realistic at the same time: that almost empty Dam, the silence even more deafening than usual, and the realization that the celebration of 75 years of freedom was necessarily subdued." With those words, this year the King began his speech to the throne. On the one hand I found that a moving image and a nice opening, but on the other hand I thought it was an affront as well. I say: the king is inviolable; the ministers are responsible. I'm just saying, just in case. Why did I think that was an affront? Because the king spoke these words as a guest at the United Assembly of the States-General, while this year, unlike otherwise, no representative of the United Assembly was invited to attend this national commemoration of death. In fact, as I told the President-in-Office of the Council during the debate on the estimates, none of the six present were directly elected ministers, while for example the Head of the Military House of His Majesty the King was present on Dam Square. As a democrat, I find that complicated. Mr President, I will not involve you in this debate, but I quote you anyway. At the estimation you said: "The President of the Second and the President of the First Chamber were not invited. We have protested against this." And you said, "I myself am very sorry that this was not the case." My written question as to whether the Ministry of General Affairs took a position on this issue in the preparation was not answered. So I'd like to reset it. I would like to add the appeal to the Prime Minister: please make sure that does not happen again. I would like confirmation that he will make the most of this, because the representative of the people should be present at the national remembrance of the dead. Mr. Chairman. Then I come the next day, 5 May, Mr Smals mentioned it. Last year, the Chamber stated that Liberation Day should be a free day for as many people as possible and asked the government to examine how this call is being followed. We haven't heard from them so far. I understand very well that there have been some other things to discuss with the social partners over the past year, but I would ask the Prime Minister about the implementation of this motion. What are we gonna see about that? Now I come to the implementation of another motion. In our motion to which Mrs Kuik referred earlier and which was adopted last month, we asked the government to make sure that every five years the benefit for the king, which is indeed more than 5 million a year, the so-called B component, is still appropriate for the amount of his personal and material expenditure, as is the wording in the budget. This was in line with the recommendation of the General Court to increase transparency and avoid discussions. We have not yet received a response from the cabinet, so I would like to hear from the Prime Minister how he is going to carry out this motion. Mr. Chairman. We also see this discussion when it comes to the income of the king and the suspected heir to the so-called A component. The height of it has been frowning for some, including myself. That is six times as much as the Prime Minister, in the words of the Prime Minister, "huge" salary of the Prime Minister, and tax-free. But this year, in particular, the increase in income attracted attention. In times of crisis, in which many people fear their jobs and income, they rise by more than 5%. I see that in other countries the members of the Royal House themselves choose to take a step back. Of course, this is the right thing to do, but the responsibility lies primarily with politics. After all, it makes the laws. When examining the Law on the Financial Statute of the Royal House in 1970, reference was already made to it, one of the spokesmen, in this case one of GroenLinks' erflaters, confirmed by Secretary of State Grapperhaus in fine terms, namely that "philosophies about the technique of indexation cannot and may mean that future governments and Chambers who will be involved in filling this issue could in any case be bound to it." That is why I ask the Prime Minister whether, ten years after the Zalm Commission, he is prepared to evaluate how the chosen indexation system has worked out during that period and whether he is prepared to look at it together with the study of the B component. Mr. Chairman. Public communication must be transparent and public, and that communication must be in the service of democracy. I see Mr Van Raak. That is certainly still about the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u16	Yeah, you can stay busy about communication. The king's cost, by the way. I read with great interest the election program of D66, the promise to the voters. I understand we were on television together just now. Together on television, we made a promise to the people that we want to abolish the tax privileges for the Royal House and that we do not want the members of the Royal House to have a higher personal income than the Prime Minister. I will make two proposals for this later, two motions for resolutions. Are you willing to hang out with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u17	I would actually have thought that Mr Van Raak would pay tribute to the motion that Mrs Kuik and I tabled earlier, because I think that is a very good step forward in order to achieve greater transparency. But I'm afraid he didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u18	That was not in the election programme and we did not just promise it on television. If something's on your election program, and if you promise something on television, it doesn't seem weird to me to do the same. What is stopping Mr Sneller? The Prime Minister won't let you? President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Can't it be done by anyone? Why shouldn't Mr. Sneller be allowed to do what he promised himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u19	Mr Van Raak has just missed two great opportunities when there were other speakers here that he knows they do not agree with me and Mr Van Raak. Mr Van Raak is well aware of the situation, namely that the Constitution states that laws that want to change this need to be adopted by a two-thirds majority. There is no such thing and there was no such thing when the motions, which Mr Van Raak now announces, were adopted earlier. The ball has been with Mr Van Raak for more than three to four years to come up with an initiative law, but it has not come up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u20	But I'm not asking for any of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u21	Mr Van Raak asks about the familiar path, namely a discussion we had two years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u22	Who did you say you were talking to?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u23	Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u24	I'm not asking for any of that. I'm not asking for laws, a two-thirds majority, or what I know. I'm just asking... We both wrote an election program. Two parties, so so far the score is 100%. We're in agreement. We made a promise to the voters. We just said it on television. All I'm asking now is to stick together, to do together what we promised on television and what we put in our election programme. Let's do that in a motion. That's all I'm asking. Does Mr Sneller want to do that or does he not want to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u25	Mr Van Raak is really failing himself by pretending that this is settled by a motion adopted by a single majority. He knows very well... He could say it's about a two-thirds majority... The other day, Mr Van Raak himself was in trade-K to defend his referendum law. He knows very well how important that two-thirds majority is to make it. I told him two years ago: let's get that two-thirds majority in sight. Only, the opportunity to promote that has just been let go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u26	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u27	Mr. Chairman. I was in government communications. It must be transparent and public. This communication must be in the service of democracy. Communication by the government is a citizen's right. As far as I am concerned, these were the main conclusions of the Future Commission on Public Communications, the Wallage Commission, in 2001. Since then, fortunately, we see a lot of good going. Public communication has become an integral part of policy and people are better involved. Internally, at the National Information Service, the necessary steps are also taken to keep public communication up-to-date. But weird things are still happening. I'd like to deal with three of them. Firstly, in July, an important statement containing information on the coronavirus of Health and General Affairs Ministers was shared on Twitter. At least, I saw it on Twitter. But in order to read it, people were referred to Facebook instead of the government website. I understand very well the use of social media by the government to reach people. However, I believe that, wherever possible, public, neutral and freely accessible channels should be used. Wide in this Chamber also live the concerns about the power of some companies and the influence of social media. Does the Prime Minister share the view that the government should also play an exemplary role in this? And that this does not fully cover the load of debt instruments, as one of the principles of public communication, "a differentiated use of media instruments"? The same applies to hiring so-called influencers. I can understand that choice of sometimes difficult-to-achieve groups to take note of an important message. The risk is, of course, always present that the people you hired will change their minds later on or do things that emit negatively on the government and the messenger. But I think it is particularly important that it is always explicitly clear to followers, viewers or listeners that the government paid for that message, just as we recently agreed in the Audiovisual Media Directive rules on product placement. I wonder if only mentioning the #state government in a message would pass the Media Commissioner's test. I would ask the Prime Minister whether he believes that this does fulfil the principle that "communication must always be identifiable as originating from the government'. Mr. Chairman. The third point I was surprised about in government communication is the use of the word "customer" to talk about people internally, or even to address them in external communication. Of course, people also relate to the government as a customer of services and products. However, Mr Van Raak's term also covered the difference between public and private: the word "customer" suggests so much more. As if they could go to another provider if they didn't like the price or the service. Citizens can't do that. Therefore, the government must always be aware of the dominant position vis-à-vis individual people. We've seen what can happen if that doesn't happen properly. But we also know that thinking in PxQ, price times number, quickly encounters great limitations and also causes problems. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether he shares my view that the term 'customer' in this respect is actually very unfortunate and can always be replaced by a better alternative. I was "student" for DUO, in my day the IB Group, and I am "taxable" or "parent" when it comes to the Tax Administration. Mr. Chairman. Finally, public communication in the broad sense. It is twenty years after the Wallage Committee's report, and since then social media has entered and online communication has taken off. Fact and fiction are becoming increasingly difficult to distinguish from each other and it is also waiting in the Netherlands for the first deep fake scandal. It is a good thing that these developments are being considered within the government, but I think it would be even better if the implications and implications for public communication were laid down more explicitly, in order to make the starting points and the implementation of public communication future-proof. I'd like to hear the Prime Minister's views on that. Mr. Chairman. On Monday we received the cabinet response to the unsolicited advice of the Council of State on ministerial responsibility. Mrs Özütok also mentioned it. As far as I am concerned, this response promises a constructive step towards greater openness in the implementation of Article 68 of the Constitution. We'll see how that works out in practice. I will come back to the opinion in greater detail next week's discussion of the other budget, that of the Interior, but I would like to mention here the ukaze-Kok, because it is so clearly called the Prime Minister's predecessor. The Remkes State Commission also advised that these external contacts should be updated by state officials, as the ukaze-Kok formally called. The cabinet is now proposing a broad dialogue with the Chamber and an experiment with more factual information. My own experience in recent years is that the handling of these instructions by ministers is indeed quite relaxed in practice, as the Prime Minister announced at the beginning of this cabinet period. As far as I am concerned, the cabinet has delivered in full, but it appears that this is not the case for everyone. And it could be even better anyway. The Prime Minister also knows how it works with the image and naming of rules. That is why I think it would be a good thing if he actually raised the generous explanation, which is mentioned in the cabinet response and which is possible according to the cabinet, to the standard in a new edition of the instructions: 'the more relaxed rules of Rutte', I shall say. Then anyone with those rules in their hand, officials and MPs, can experiment with peace of mind. Mr. Chairman. Let me conclude with a brief comment on Kroondomain Het Loo. As is now known, the current subsidy will continue until 31 December 2021. D66, among others, together with Mr Wassenberg, has asked a number of questions about the conditions of the grant. I very much welcome the commitment that, if there is a new application in the next financial year, it will be submitted to the Chamber first, so that we have the opportunity to express our opinion on that condition before it is renewed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u28	Thank you, Mr. Faster. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll continue on Crown Domain Het Loo. But I start with a happy message that reached me last week, namely that restaurant De Rustende Jager in Biezenmortel near Tilburg got the predicate royal after 100 years. A royal predicate for a resting hunter, that must be a good omen! It would adorn the king if he became a retired hunter. There's every reason for that. In mid-May, the TV program Zembla revealed that the king has probably been wrongly awarded 4.7 million grants for the management of the Crown Domain Het Loo since 2016. This grant can only be granted for areas open to the public for 358 days a year. This does not apply to Kroondomain Het Loo, which is closed to the public for more than three months. The decision which the government shared with the Chamber at our request shows that the king is exempt from the requirement to open the Crown Domain 358 days a year, but it remains completely unclear on the basis of which. Because the article cited as a basis for the decision to exempt the king from the obligation to open that Crown Domain year round, states that you may close 1 hectare, but not 7,000. It seems that a construction has been devised here to grant subsidies, but not to meet that important condition. Mr. Chairman. The hunt is not a valid reason to lock the Crown Domain for three months. The king doesn't want any peeps, because the hunt is the real reason for the closure. That's what the royal house itself says. On the website of the Royal House you can read: "Croondomain Het Loo is open all year round. However, in autumn (15 Sep. 25 Dec.) a large part was closed for safety reasons due to fauna management." Because of wildlife management! I'm not comfortable with that. The king gets a grant. He does not have to meet the conditions and closes most of the Kroondomain Het Loo three months for the public. And to justify that, a random article is picked out of the closet, but in reality the closure is because of the hunt. That's what the royal family admits. But hunting is not an exemption ground. Therefore, in order to fulfil my supervisory role as a Member of Parliament, I would like all the underlying documents of that grant decision to be made public. Because a subsidy of 4.7 million without proper legal justification and on the basis of secret documents, while making undisturbed hunting possible, is not true! The cabinet wrote a week and a half ago that it wants to deal more favourably with requests for information from the Chamber. I would like to mention the Article 68 letter from Minister Ollongren. Put that into practice today, I ask the Prime Minister. I'd like a response. The current subsidy period will expire in 2021, on 31 December of that year. The Prime Minister already sort out a little for this when he writes: "If there is a new grant application, the opening up of the Crown Domain will be discussed." Mr Sneller has already mentioned this. How's that going? Is there a new grant application, perhaps? Is the Prime Minister expecting it? Is he willing to actively inform the Chamber about this? How is the Court's wish, as expressed in the motion submitted to the budget in 2018 and subsequently adopted, included in the assessment? Finally, Mr President, a subject also mentioned by the SP and GroenLinks. One part of the budget is the king's raise of 5%. An increase in crisis time, in which many redundancies are made, cannot be explained. So once again an exception for the king. It is precisely in this difficult period that it would adorn the king and the cabinet to refrain from this increase. It would also be nice if the king and the members of the royal family would be covered by the Law standards top incomes. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u30	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u31	Thank you, Mr President. It is my pleasure to be able to replace Mr Van der Staaij here. He was unable to make a contribution here because of other obligations. The joy is caused by the fact that I now have the opportunity to cross swords with another historian as a historian. I would therefore like to include some historical elements in my speech. We are not going to be a historian here, but the fact is that the Prime Minister is in a different historical, different political tradition than I am. He is in the tradition of the famous statesman Thorbecke and I really am in that of his parliamentary counterpart, the gospel confessor as he called himself, Green of Princer. When I read something in Groen recently, I found that he already in the nineteenth century foresaw that reasoning based on the principles of what he called disbelief today, you would say: the secular vision of man and society, there would come a time when what ever happened would have to be adapted to new ideas. History isn't what it used to be. That's, you might say, an almost prophetic perception. The confirmation of these words can be seen in what, among other things, has been done over the last few months when it comes to the storm of criticism of so-called wrong statues or the disdainful fall of the concept of the Golden Age in museums. The same category includes the banishment of the golden carriage, at least I cannot escape the impression that it is likely to be arranged through a museum. The discussion about this has been going on for a long time, of course, but a small, fanatical and noisy minority does make a lot of stomping nowadays. Fortunately, the Prime Minister said that the storage facility in a museum is only temporary. But honesty commands me to say that I have heard him say: Black Pete is black, period. The Prime Minister's position has now been exchanged for: Black Piet is not black or doesn't have to be black. In other words, what guarantee does the Prime Minister give that he will do everything in his power to ensure that the golden carriage, which gives Prince's Day to the pleasure of many for more than a century, continues to ride? Without a clear answer, I will ask the Chamber for a ruling on this. I'm just gonna turn it in. I'll add this to that. It is the first sentence in the Handbook of the History of the Homeland of Green of Princer. I have the impression that Mr Van der Molen has something to say about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u32	I do not wish to interrupt a speech on Green by Princer. If you need any more time...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u33	It's coming anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u34	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u35	It's a different theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u36	I can well imagine that appreciation for Mr Groen van Prinsterer. He was also one of the first parliamentarians of his signature to speak out against slavery. Before his time he was very progressive in that. I can well follow your stance on the golden carriage, but would you like the Chamber to give a ruling on that? I was once asked what I think of it and my thesis was: look, that vehicle, that thing is the king's. It belongs to a foundation, but the king is free to decide how he intends to come to our United Assembly. Does Mr Bishop agree with me? A motion to do so in the Chamber would in itself be a strange figure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u37	In itself, it is true that it is not formally the Chamber that decides whether the king will go on horseback, car or coach to the opening of the parliamentary year. But the golden carriage has become part of that parliamentary tradition through history. From that point of view, I think it would be very good for the Court to give a ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u38	From the CDA's point of view, it's not about whether I understand the wish that the golden carriage can be used outside the museum. We don't disagree about that. I would like to put to Mr Bishop something about relations. It's not that, because the King decided for years to use the golden carriage, we have something to say about that, by definition? That would be very strange, wouldn't it? I would like to inform Mr Bishop that a response from the Prime Minister might be very useful. He asked him some very useful questions about this. I would like to suggest to him that it might be very far-reaching to provoke a ruling on this matter from the Court of Justice, also from the constitutional views which the SGP often puts forward here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u39	Sure. When you look at it purely and strictly state law, you say: you must stay far from it. At the same time, I would like to point out once again that this is part of the parliamentary tradition. I certainly do not think it would be inappropriate, as a Chamber, to express a wish or a preference. That certainly doesn't seem out of place to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u40	I would just like to ask Mr Bishop whether we can also meet this straightforward interpretation on other dossiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u41	This may require some clarification or clarification. In general, it seems a somewhat difficult question to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u42	Look, Mr. Bishop is asking for a Chamber address on something that is the King's. On other subjects where the King may or may not be allowed to do so, there is often a reference to the fact that the King establishes his own house, to Article 41 of the Constitution, or to other provisions, so that we as a Chamber are not allowed to rule on them. Mr Bishop's interpretation today is very easy. So I invite him to clarify whether this is a new vision within the SGP when it comes to the constitutional interpretation. Or is this reserved for the golden carriage?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u43	Of course, it's a little risky to attribute a primordial Calvinist to an easy interpretation. The implications of this go a long way. There's a big difference. The institution and that sort of thing are not parliamentary traditions. We are talking about a parliamentary tradition here. We cherish that tradition and say that you can also express your wish in it. What the King does with it is the King's. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u44	But if the means of transport with which the King goes from his palace to the Knight's Room or to the Great Church is part of the parliamentary tradition, then that is a fairly spacious "easy" was a bit of a silly joke towards Mr. Bishop...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u45	I can handle that. I get the joke.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u46	... interpretation of what belongs to our parliamentary tradition? Anyway, I'll leave it at that and look at the motion as it comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u47	Mr. Snels. No, Smalls.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u48	I would just like to know what Mr Bishop thinks of the suggestion to ask for a ruling from the Chamber in the form of a kind of statement of no objection, or something like that, against the use of the carriage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u49	A statement of no objection, well. We can discuss the wording further. In this respect, we are indeed pliable and flexible if we can obtain a majority. From time to time, we are also pragmatic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u50	I'm chewing on it a little bit, too. The color of the Queen's hat, we must stay far from that. With the golden coach I also see a problem, especially when Mr Bishop says: we make a ruling as a Second Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u51	As a wish, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u52	And then the King himself can decide what to do with it. You're gonna turn the affair upside down a little bit. How does Mr Bishop see that? If, as a representative of the people in a parliamentary democracy, we express a wish, how can the King say: no, I do not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u53	How about that, Mr. Bishop?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u54	That remains, of course, a ministerial responsibility. Then the Prime Minister has a problem. He thought he was out, but he didn't. Mr Van der Molen is quite right: this does not formally concern the Chamber. I would also point out that the golden coach year in, year in, part of, the parliamentary tradition. Then I say, if you're attached to that, you can let me know as a room. And then it is up to the other parties involved, the King, but read: the ministerial responsibility to implement it properly, or to give it a different meaning. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u55	You got yourself out of it well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u56	I hope you agree with me. But you're independent, so you can't even rule on that. Mr. Chairman. I quote the first sentence in the Handbook of the History of the Homeland of Green of Princer. He says: "History is useful because it teaches aptly in the experiences of ancestors, but above all because it reveals God's omnipotence, wisdom, righteousness and grace in the fate of a sinful man." Look, that's right, I say. Subtitled to now: History is not put away in a museum, but you have to keep alive. Indeed, we can learn from it, as Green from Princer said. This applies both to what has gone well and to what has gone horribly wrong. A living history also tells us a mirror, makes us a little modest. It makes us realize that we too are children of our time. If we put forward opinions and views that are now commonplace, we are making the same mistake that many people have made in the past. We fit some modesty. Mr. Chairman. The second point I would like to make concerns public campaigns by the public authorities. Then, of course, it's about the so-called influencers, some of whom were also easy to influence themselves and made a turn of 180 ̊ when it came to the corona policy. In concrete terms, my question is this: should the lesson that we learn from this not be that it is better to consult people, organisations or institutions who are made of a more stable and firmer structure when hiring messengers? Mr President, I should like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u57	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. We have come to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u58	I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u59	Mr President, thank you. A lot of questions have been asked on a wide variety of subjects. It's hard to classify these, so I'm just gonna get started. I shall begin with a number of questions on one of the few subjects on which several questions were asked, namely the communication of the government. I shall come later to a few more fundamental issues that Mr Van Raak and others have touched on, including the reflections on the office. I'll do that at the end, after we get all the shit out of the way. I'm starting communication. I mix up ripe and green. The CDA, Mr Van der Molen, asked about the accessibility requirements of websites. I do agree that these websites should be accessible to everyone. This is why the rules for government websites have been taken into account as much as possible in the development process. The language level of the texts is B1. This makes them understandable by 95% of the Dutch population. In August, the site was tested by VWS for digital accessibility. At present, the coronatest website partially meets the accessibility standard. In a so-called "accessibility declaration', VWS has indicated exactly which improvements still need to be made. They are now being implemented step by step. So that's all being done now. I admit it's not perfect yet, but this is now being worked out on the basis of a plan. I agree that we shouldn't talk about "clients." I thought this was a question from Mr Sneller. I will not succeed in instructing the entire government ex cathedra in this debate to avoid the word "customer," but it gives the impression that the government is a supplier. That's not the government. As a liberal, of course, I should not talk about 'government', because it has been placed above us. Liberals prefer to talk about "the state." The State is not a supplier. The State takes care of the common interest and promotes all those goals that we cannot solve in our personal lives, but is therefore not a supplier of the people in the country. I am not going to impose an okay, but I am speaking out here and I am trying to promote that we avoid that term as much as possible. Then I would like to say something about making government communication future-proof. This is regularly reviewed by the club of information departments of all ministries. New technological developments, such as artificial intelligence, algorithms and robotics, have a major impact on communication and also receive structural attention within our club from people working on it every day. There is also collaboration with experts, such as Marleen Stikker from Waag Technology & Society and professor of robotics Maarten Steinbuch. The impact of innovations and technological developments is being considered. In this context, the Public and Communication Service also regularly publishes a trend report, which describes in detail the implications of specific trends for public communication. In this way knowledge about technological developments is acquired and disseminated and it is ensured that public communication is up-to-date and future-proof. Then there was, of course, the issue of Facebook this summer. Facebook is one of the channels we use for public communication, I say to Mr Sneller. The agreement is that the government also offers this information directly on its own websites, so that the visitor has guaranteed access to the information, without processing personal data. We also did not decide not to inform the Chamber first. That wasn't the case. In that post a brief explanation of the latest developments was given, but these developments were also discussed in detail at about the same time in the letter of 28 July from the VWS Minister and in two OMT opinions. So this was about parallel to each other. We occasionally use Facebook, because this is also a means. It is important that it is also offered on Rijksoverheid.nl, when it comes to information that is important for all of us. The Labour Party asked about the same issue. Then there is the question of subtitles. The short answer is that everything is subtitled via the Internet and social media. If government commercials are broadcast around the news, there's subtitles, too, by teletext 888. The point here is that there has been a very detailed discussion in the past on how best to deal with this. In 2015, national agreements were made on how we deal with TV commercials of the government in Dutch Sign Language. In fact, it has been said that we are not going to do that by definition, but we are going to look at what is the best way. In addition, television is of course an audiovisual means and subtitles can also distract people. So you have to look at what times you do that and where that is the most striking. These agreements have all been extended, including with organisations that have advised us in particular. You can see, of course, that the number of gestures deployed is now increasing enormously. I think that is also a very good development. Here, too, it's about customization. This means that you look at it on a case-by-case basis, in consultation with the interest groups. This means, for example, that a campaign approach looks at whether an additional file should be created on Rijksoverheid.nl. Now you can see there's a sign interpreter when we have such a coronaper conference. These press conferences are of course addressed to the journalists, but in fact the journalists are also addressed to all Dutch people. This is also apparent from the ratings. Calls are also made to people to act immediately; washing hands, 1.5 meters, et cetera. The regular press conferences after the Council of Ministers are primarily intended for journalists only. These press conferences are also broadcast on media, but are not usually live on television via the main channels, the Netherlands 1 et cetera, or whatever it is called nowadays. So they don't have the purpose of prompting people to change their behavior. They are really meant to communicate with the journalists, and you hope, of course, that this will be continued through the journalists to the newspapers and other media statements. In doing so, gesture interpreters are also an integral part of the communication of the government. We look at the stakes at a time. I think that is also in line with Mr Van der Molen's question, which I consider to be an appeal to us to continue with this. Then, of course, there is the question of influencers. We saw a few weeks ago that this also goes wrong, although Diederik Gommers managed to manage it in a very good way. We apply guidelines for sendership. We have paid online influencer marketing, where we are always recognizable as a participant in communication, regardless of the channel or medium, as a state government. In the case of blogs and vlogs, we usually use the phrase "in commission" to fill in the government, the relevant ministry or the campaign name. It may also say "in cooperation with" or "paid by" as long as it is clear that the government is involved in the expression. The placement is of course free to determine by the influencers and this will vary per blog and vlog. We don't want to prescribe that. We'll give you the basics. This is also in line with the Advertising Code Social Media, which is used by the business community. I myself think it is important to continue to work through influencers, because that reaches a whole group of people who perhaps, as we are sitting here, we no longer all follow ourselves every day except Mr Sneller. I sometimes make fun of friends who say: do you also have special communication aimed at young people? Yeah, we do, but you don't see that, because you're too old, I say. But anyway, those influencers are really a means to eventually have wider access to groups of people. Mr. Chairman. Then a second group of questions was asked and that really went into the welfare of the King, the Queen, the Crown Princess and Princess Beatrix. Perhaps I should say the following briefly and briefly, on the subject of the Sneller motion. Yeah, we're gonna do it. We come before the end of the year with a comprehensive letter on the state of play and how we are going to implement that motion. There is therefore no longer a question of whether or not to ask. The question of how to do this is raised there. In addition, there was a demand to look at the indexation mechanisms. On this point, I would like to assure you that we will address the question or question in the same letter. If so, we will discuss how, and if no, why not. In short, therefore, we are going to carry out the motion Sneller. By the end of the year, the way we're going to do that will be extended in a letter. The evaluation of the indexing mechanism will be included in that letter, but again, I would like to consider the question very carefully. I would also like to say straight away that I always felt at home with the idea that stability and long-term clarity were created around the monarchy in two ways. The first is not the subject of today's debate, but it was discussed in previous debates at the time of the 1983 constitutional amendment, the final part of Thorbecke. This development began in 1848 and ended in 1983 with membership of the King's government. Paradoxically, this means that ministerial responsibility is now embedded in the Constitution, but I think that is very important in order to be able to shape ministerial responsibility. The second is the Law Financial Statute of the Royal House. As a result, the Dutch state system, a monarchy with a noble family at the head of the State, provides long-term clarity as to how their benefit is to be obtained. That's why you don't have discussions about it every minute. So I would like to consider this and try this part of the debate on the hand and on the tongue. That is why I say about that second piece, the regular evaluation that GroenLinks also asked for, that I am going to think about it again. But I'll come back to that in that letter in which I'm going to carry out the Sneller motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u60	If the Prime Minister needs time, that's fine. I would like to know now whether he agrees with us that it is time for an update of the Royal House Financial Statute Act. As he knows, that law dates back to 2008 and the current system dates back to the 1970s. I would like to hear whether the Prime Minister really intends to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u61	I've said I'd like to think about that. Look, you're never gonna agree on the level of benefit. Even if it were at the level of my salary, some would still find it too high. So there will always be discussion about that. It has been said in the 1970s: we are now fixing what it is, we are linking it to the salary of the Vice-President of the Council of State, and because it is a tax-free allowance, it must also move along with any tax increases and reductions. So there are two elements. The first is: what does the collective agreement, wage development, do widely in the government? This was illustrated by linking it to the salary of the Vice President of the Council of State. The second element is the question of what taxes do in the Netherlands. It is a tax-free allowance, and that must also be included in it. That could also be reductions. I say that because the question has been asked whether it can be down or lower than anticipated. Yeah, that's all possible, 'cause it's springing along. But of course it starts with that, I say from my mind, 500 000 guilders, the amount as fixed in the early 1970s, because from there it has been calculated. I just don't think it makes any sense to have a whole discussion about whether that amount, which was then chosen and from which it was further developed, was wisely chosen, especially since it was approved by the Chamber in 2007 by 149 or 150 votes. And that included the allowance for the Crown Princess. It would then lead to a discussion about the level of benefit and I just want to see how we deal with it. But I would warn against putting this into discussion over and over again, because that does not relate to a state system without free presidential elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u62	A brief supplementary question. It is good that the Prime Minister will look into it, but can he also put a time on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u63	I shall come back to that in detail before the end of the year. More questions have been asked about money, transparency and the Court of Auditors. Again, in the Sneller motion, I'm actually overruled. I also told you I'm going to make that motion. We can have a very fundamental debate on why everyone has to pay the same tax, but of course we have had this debate many times. We know there's tax-free in the King's house. By the way, this does not apply to everything, because there are also a lot of things that they simply pay tax on. If actual wage developments are lower than the Central Planning Office expects, then the King's income will indeed be lower. That was a question from at least the VVD, but I also thought of D66. The increase in the constitutional allowance, as it is now included in the budget, follows entirely the system of the WFSKH, precisely in order to avoid annual discussion. How do I feel about all these discussions about the costs of the Royal House? That is not my concern, because that is a social debate. In any case, we have managed well in the Netherlands by ensuring stable legislation. Furthermore, everyone is free to find anything about it, just like anyone can find anything from the fact that the Crown Princess also gets a benefit when she turns 18. There are very good reasons for this, because not for nothing 150 MPs said yes to it in 2007. Those reasons are that she has been the heir to the throne since she was 18 years old. It is therefore entitled to ascend the throne and exercise kingship, as laid down in the Constitution. The Princess of Orange will receive the first part of this next year, because she will reach that age somewhere at the end of that year. Of course, that will really go on in 2022. Being the heir to the throne is the constitutionally established function of her. Article 25 of the Constitution provides that the oldest child is affected. Article 33 provides that the heir to the throne from 18 years onwards is also entitled to ascend the throne. That includes the constitutional benefit. That is also important, because this particular position also requires independence. There's no way she's gonna make her money elsewhere. She must be able to succeed the king at any time. This financial independence is part of that independence. That is why, with the broad agreement of the Chamber, this is organised in such a way in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u64	It's always nice, just another bit of college, but still it's a little too easy. In fact, there are a number of parties here who do not say that you should not grant a separate grant, but who are wondering whether that grant should be of this magnitude. That is the question before us, next to the question of why the allowance was built up in this way. Secondly, 2007 was 13 years ago. We can also look at the present spirit of the time. My last question is this. The king is inviolable. The Prime Minister bears the ministerial responsibility. What is taking place in the social debate is therefore also his responsibility. My question is, do you recognize that? So the discussions that concern the Royal House and which are held in society must also take place somewhere. The king can't do that himself. In a way, therefore, the Prime Minister is also his brother's keeper, I would like to say, partly to prevent the Royal House from causing itself unintended harm. This makes the social debate relevant here in this house too. She's also relevant to the Prime Minister. Does he recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u65	No. That's a weird argument. So because there's a social discussion, there's a problem and I have to intervene? No, I disagree. I think, on the contrary, that the state system we have can only function properly if it is clear for the long term. It is crucial in two respects. The first is the constitutional position: how do you prevent the king and the cabinet from singing apart? So how can you actually fulfil the ministerial responsibility? That is well regulated in the 1983 Constitution. The second is the law that deals with their benefits. It is precisely because you want to avoid that there is a reason in the legislation to have that discussion every moment. I myself was party chairman in 2007 of one of the parties, in fact all the parties in the Chamber, who then said: yes, this is good; that is how you should do it. This has its origins in a situation in the 1970s. That's all well secured in that law now. We have now also gained much more transparency about the wider budget, the other components. Part of that is the Sneller motion, which concerns the B component. We now have this interruption about the A component, the benefit. The biggest risk is that we are going to have a permanent discussion in the Netherlands: what is much and what is little? I wouldn't think that was right. That doesn't fit in with the state system we've chosen. Mrs Özütok's question and others who are before us and which I do not find so strange at all, but on which I would just like to give some thought, is this: should you not discuss this in some kind of regular cycle? I am not excited about that right now, but I say: let me think about it and come back to it in the letter in which I also carry out the Sneller motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u66	A lot of words, but still, it's a bit off the point. It is not a question of how we have regulated the state-law relationship with each other, but of whether you can discuss what we still think is fair. My position is that you can have that discussion, also on the basis of the way in which the social debate is conducted. I also believe that the Prime Minister has a role in this, precisely because of the ministerial responsibility. That is why it is weird that it is taking so long to achieve this transparency. If we do not get that until the end of the year, we will know exactly what is going on: that means that the next cabinet must see if we are actually going to implement it. Then it becomes a kind of shear instead of being taken seriously by the head.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u67	Yes, yes, the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u68	So in other words, I find it too easy. The king is also part of our society and thus part of the discussion. I think you can watch that. You don't have to mess with the way we've dealt with it under state law, but you can, I think, have a very transparent and regular discussion about the level of these allowances. This is about the king but also about the future heads of state.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u69	However, I find that crazy, especially from a party like the Labour Party, which so often bears government responsibility. Because I also think it's our joint task to have a fragile system that we have, the monarchy... This may always be the subject of public debate, but that is not yet a problem. Moreover, I do not have the impression that the king's benefit is now a major issue in society. But even so, I think it is a bit of our job here to try to manage that and explain that this has been used for good reasons. 'Cause if you're gonna argue about that benefit right now and say that it's gonna come to the conclusion that it's gonna have to go down, what's enough? You'll never get out of there. One of the reasons why this codification was chosen in the WFSKH 2007 on the basis of an extension of the situation in the 1970s is also to bring some peace and quiet around the monarchy with the larger system parties in the Netherlands, the larger popular parties. I therefore find it worrying to have a discussion about this every time, because you can have it on a permanent basis. You can always say, does a 18-year-old girl have to get that kind of money? Yeah, but she's not a regular 18-year-old girl. She's Crown Princess. She must be able to be independent. It is not money that she is going to spend personally; of course that is not at all the issue. This is all very wisely put away, without doubt, in a way that enables her to build her own secretariat and staff in addition to that benefit, so that she can also observe and carry out her crown princess duties. So that's done for all good reasons. The tricky thing is that in the Netherlands, of course, it soon becomes a somewhat difficult discussion about the question: what is enough, what is much, what is little? Of course, you'll never get out of there completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u70	There are so many elements that I have to go back to the focus. We have constant discussions in this house that we consider relevant about everything and what it is high and low. That's what we do about benefits, about bonuses and about top drivers. We have such discussions about ourselves and about the Prime Minister's salary. So why shouldn't we talk about the benefit or the allowance of the king and the future head of state? If this is the attitude the Prime Minister wants to take to the implementation of the Sneller motion, which has been co-signed by others, my concern is that I already know what the answer will be: we agreed on this in state law in 2007 and that should no longer be affected. I think that's a weird attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u71	No, we'll talk past each other. The motion Sneller is about the B component. I told you, I'm gonna do it. The question that comes up now, which you can see as lying in the extension of the motion Sneller, is how you deal with the A-component. That's what I'm talking about. That motion on the B component was because there was criticism that the cabinet too easily ignored the Court's criticism. I've admitted it. I think we were too quick at that. That motion Sneller has been adopted. So we're going to do that sporty and I don't see any objection to that either. We just need to find a good shape for that. But that A component is, of course, much more sensitive. We have a precarious system in the Netherlands that has a lot of support and is working very well. Many examples have been mentioned today of the way in which king and queen fulfill the task they have of connecting the whole of the Netherlands and being the pulse of the nation in difficult times. But precisely because it is a special state system with characteristics that some people believe are not difficult to relate to democracy and so on, I warn you that you have to be very careful with discussions that are going to be more populist very soon: "Oh, that's a lot of money!" Or "Oh, that's very little money!" That is why I am in favour of ensuring that you provide long-term clarity about the state and financial position. We did. We've been doing that since 2007 and it's being indexed. If we get less, they'll get less. We also had years during the cabinet with the Labour Party; then we had no other way to say that they were on the zero line because things were very bad with the Netherlands. Then they didn't get anything. So that's what we do decently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u72	Finally, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u73	No one is compromising what the royal family is doing, and I will be the last to speak of a girl. She's just a princess, she's our future head of state. But that does not alter the fact that you may have a discussion with each other about an indexing and the question of what is reasonable, because the Royal House is not outside our society but is simply part of that society and of that social discussion. And again, the B component is one thing. The question of indexation is another. If we are constantly stuck in "you're ridiculing" or "you're becoming populist," that means we can't look at this with an open eye anymore. I think that is necessary, however proud I often do not always, but often I am also at our Royal House. So that's my last call. I'll take that open look. Because if we just say that we agreed in 2007 and that we don't have to look at anything anymore, I know what the answer will be. So please keep your eyes open. This social debate, too, deserves a serious look and attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u74	Yeah, but that social discussion isn't in isolation, is it? It's happening in the context of what people from this house belong to, isn't it? So what I'm warning you about... I'm not saying... I'm gonna think about it, so I'll get back to you. We're carrying out the motion sneller. This is a question related to, added to, the A component. I would like to say quite frankly that you may hear from me that I am less enthusiastic about this. Again, what's different from 2007? We told 150 MPs that this is a good system, so what's different now? Since then, this benefit has been indexed as already indexed, linked to the position of Vice-President of the Council of State. Anyway, I'm sure we're gonna talk about that letter I wrote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u75	I found that argument of independence interesting. The members of the Royal House receive this benefit because they have to be financially independent. Then I wondered: does the Prime Minister consider himself financially independent?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u76	Yeah, I am, but I can make my own money for this and after that. There are former prime ministers who are going to make speeches or write biographies for a lot of money. I wasn't going to do any of that, so you'll never find me in those kind of circuits. But of course, you all have ways of ultimately providing your own income in the longer term. A king doesn't have that. A king is always this. What about a crown princess? From birth to 18, she now knows this is her. From 18 onwards she is the crown princess and at some point she becomes queen. And then she's an old queen and she's a princess again. In all these phases, you do not want people who occupy that particular position in the State to be dependent on third parties for their financial position. That is also one of the reasons why this benefit is different from my benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u77	That's not entirely true, because I don't know anyone else who gets a benefit that's life-long job insurance. That applies to the members of the Royal House. So, no, that argument doesn't add up. If this amount for the Prime Minister, this benefit is sufficient to give him financial independence, why should the king receive nearly six times more in cash to be financially independent?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u78	That is exactly what I am warning you about, because of course you will never get out of it. In the 1970s, a certain level had been reached. Then it was said: here we fix it and from here we start indexing it. All this was legally reconfirmed and committed in 2007. You'll never get out of there, because what is enough? What's less, what's more? Where is this independence and not? You'll never get out of that, it's my conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u79	If I use the Prime Minister as an argument 'yes, but that is how it was agreed in the 1970s', I think the Prime Minister will say to me: yes, but since then things have changed, and benefits are being discussed every day. What I like about the ministerial standard... It is one of the few proposals of mine that the government has ever made law, so I will continue to do so. We've set a standard. That's so nice. Yes, you can find anything, the Prime Minister says. But we have all decided that this is the norm, the ministerial standard, for a public function. Or doesn't the king have a public function? Then that's a wonderful standard, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u80	But it can't be compared to a minister, can it? Amalia doesn't have a choice at all, does she? She's gonna be queen. She knows that from birth. That's our state system. There's no alternative at all. The last thing you want, of course, is that people in that particular position would not be financially independent. I do this for a number of years and Mr Van Raak does this for a number of years. After that, we have other possibilities in our lives and we can provide for future career steps in all possible ways. They don't have that choice. That is, of course, the special feature of this system. If you want to combine hereditary kingship with parliamentary democracy, then you have to take care of those two things properly. They are well regulated in the 1983 Constitution and in the WFSKH on the king's financial independence. Those two things are crucial; otherwise it will not work. I also believe that the elected representative of the people is very reluctant to discuss this issue, which, of course, puts the head of state in a complex situation, at least the Prime Minister after all. I don't mind all that. I do that with love, but I don't think it's right. That does not help, I think, to understand in the Netherlands that we are making these choices for very good reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u81	In one of the interviews with the king, I think he said just as beautifully how it was a choice and that you should also consciously choose to do it or not to do it. So I think I have a slightly different reading of how inevitable that kingship is, also for the intended heir. Mr Van Raak referred to that Law standards top incomes. At the same time, we also deviate from this for different sectors, for example the extent to which the public is financed and the degree to which it is financed. I therefore believe that there is always a possibility of discussion, but I am sure that we will be able to pin it in there somewhere in the end. Does the Prime Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u82	No. No, the king's income is pinned down in the WFSKH and for me that is truly separate from the WNT.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u83	The Prime Minister says it's six times as much as the Prime Minister and tax-free, and once you're done, there's no other anchor point and you'll never agree. At the same time, the Top Income Standards Act allows for all kinds of exceptions, but the Chamber and the Cabinet have agreed on all these different sectors, WNT1 and WNT2.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u84	Yeah, but it's different. Here you are also sitting with an amplitude in society that is completely different from the discussion about what you think of the salary of the boss of De Nederlandsche Bank or that of the top man or top woman of ProRail. That's really different. Here you have to deal with a hereditary monarch, who for decades, hopefully in good health... In any case, his mother has fulfilled this special position in the Netherlands for decades. This includes a few things, such as the fact that you are meeting with each other to protect it, to make that particularly precarious state of affairs work well and to let it be expressed as much as possible. Then you don't have to have a discussion every year or every few years about: well, that's a lot of money. That's not fair. I really don't think it's fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u85	I am aware of the Prime Minister's feelings and I can understand them from his position. I do not think that the current height is very conducive to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u86	Then D66 shouldn't have said yes in 2007. Yes, you did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u87	That is the last point I wanted to make. That was just an improvement on the status before that. After the Zalm Committee, there has really been an improvement. The Prime Minister only uses the voting behaviour at the time and the unanimity in the Chamber, which we said yes to an improvement, as if we were committed with all parts for eternity. The Prime Minister was the chairman of the political group at the time. That must also be placed in the time of that time. I do not think we should invite Members of Parliament to vote against, even if we think it is a step forward, unless they agree with each letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u88	No, that is true, Mr Sneller is quite right. That was faint of me, too, maybe. I take that back. I mean something else. In my opinion, the spirit of 2007 was also to achieve stability for the longer term on the point of income around the king. I think that's very valuable. That is also very important in this form of state. You can then endlessly discuss that form of state. In my opinion, the Netherlands is still just a republic in which one family always supplies the president, but they did it when we really were a republic. They weren't heads of state at the time, but they did have a high position as city managers. This also indicates the special connection between the Dutch and the Netherlands. In fact, this whole monarchy comes from the Vienna Congress and the stability that was required after Napoleon, but history is not in that monarchy at all. The history is in the family, that this country has had a connection with the Oranges for 500 years and that the one who made us independent of Spain was a great great uncle, and much further away, of this king. Of course, that's what makes it so special. And if you want to keep that precarious system going, you shouldn't have endless discussions every few years. That's what I think. That is my view. Of course, Mrs Kuik and Mr Sneller have every right to think differently. I can't shut them up. So I'm gonna think about it. Not on the Then I come to something completely different. It is indeed in the area of the Minister for the Interior, but briefly a few things about information, the Council of State and the letter. What we have actually done is say: yes, we must be quick with our information. The President will speak to me on a regular basis. I will not involve her in the discussion any further, I can assure you. I do that in the Cabinet, too. A very practical point that we have now agreed on in the Council of Ministers is the Schippers doctrine. It says: if you have a general discussion or a parliamentary debate and you threaten to send a pile of pieces just in advance, you call. Then you say, "It was inevitable." I'm also going to explain why it was inevitable. But there's going to be a pile of pieces now, so will we do the debate a few days later or should we continue as planned? That's what you do, for example, with the chairman of that permanent chamber committee. That's what we have to try. I think it's better with the questions in the Chamber now. We are dealing with them more within the time limits, also because the threat that you are otherwise faced with in Question Time has been put down very strongly. What is, of course, the much more sensitive discussion about, is Article 68, the information position and the criticism from the Chamber that the WED sometimes produces more than Article 68 itself. That is what we have tried to correct in this information. That is, I think, at least in the spirit of the motion that has been tabled on this subject, among others by Pieter Omtzigt. However, there is still a discussion about the personal policy views of officials, which we do not automatically provide, because we believe it is important that the debate between officials should take place in the run-up to policy-making. So perhaps there will be some discussion about that if the document of the Minister for the Interior is dealt with in the near future, but we really support it as a cabinet. And, of course, it's a big step we're taking with this. In updating the ukaze-Kok to the ukaze-Rutte I am somewhat reluctant, although of course I am also looking for a monument. But I don't know if this is gonna be it, maybe never at all. I am pleased that it has been established that we are dealing with this relaxedly. That is really necessary. First of all, if an initiative-law draft is being prepared, then you will have access to the administrative apparatus anyway. In that case, it must even be the ministers concerned, because the preparation of legislative initiatives must be in complete confidentiality. But on all other matters, too, I have always been on the line that officials should be able to have direct contact with Chambers. This is actually shared in the cabinet, as well as in the previous cabinets, but we have now made that more explicit. But these officials will of course continue to fall under the ministerial responsibility of the Minister, but these officials will then provide factual information. One example of this is what Jaap van Dissel is doing. This is not really an official. We don't know what he's going to say there either. And perhaps he will say something that we say: Oh, we didn't know exactly. It doesn't matter at all. You need to relax with that. I think that's the point, so that's what we're doing. I really want to get rid of it, I say to Mr Sneller, that I will pass on his suggestion on to my colleague, the Minister for the Interior. That ukaze-kok is actually the ukaze-minister of BZK. Apparently, Cook put his name on that. I think this will be involved in the debate on the implementation of the Council of State Advice. At that point, I had no further questions. Then I have one final point before I get to a lot of loose questions. Crown Domain Het Loo. Yes, the Minister of LNV has agreed to inform the Chamber before the summer of any new application prior to a possible award. So: possible application, possible grant. The Minister for Agriculture, I say to Mr Wassenberg, deals with the nature and landscape subsidies to the Crown Domain. The grant application for the subsidy granted in 2016 has been carefully substantiated and subsequently examined. In doing so, opinions from various parties are involved on the basis of their expertise. Parliamentary questions were also answered on 2 July. In these parliamentary questions, it also provided the grant decision. It has also provided advice from various parties involved on the basis of their expertise. As I said, we will inform the Chamber of any new application that might lead to a possible award. That is the issue, but this is really on Mrs Schouten's domain; I do not know much more about it either. So if Mr Wassenberg still has all kinds of questions, I am afraid I will have to put them to the Commissioner for Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u89	We are having this debate with the Prime Minister and not with Minister Schouten. That's why I'm going to ask him the question. We did ask questions. We also received the grant decision of 30 May 2016, but there is a fog there, because different answers are given to the same question. If I look at the answer to the questions that we have asked about the grant decision, the answer is from July, then the answer is: no, the province of Gelderland indicates that there is no possibility of exempting from the grant obligation in Article 2.9. However, the decision itself states that the grant is indeed granted on the basis of that Article 2.9. So the grant decision and the answers to those questions say two different things. So fog is created. I think that's a problem. I'm not a lawyer. I can read it, but I don't get it. But in that broadcast of Zembla in May of this year, there were legal scholars who didn't understand anything about it either. Professor Van Mourik even said: this is a legal hoax. So there's fog being created, either on purpose or by accident, I don't know, but I want clarity. I'm asking the Prime Minister now. Perhaps he can come back to it again later, perhaps by letter, because the decision and the answers to the questions say two different things. They are two different answers to the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u90	No, I'm not gonna do that. Parliament's questions were answered on 2 July. If there are any questions about that, I really think Mr Wassenberg should understand himself with the Minister. I'm not a Minister of Agriculture. This really goes into the details and this debate is not for that. This is a debate on General Affairs and not on Agriculture. In general, I can say things about Het Loo. I and the Minister for Agriculture have made a commitment that we will submit a possible next decision to the Chamber. But this is about the previous decision and this goes very much into the details. That's information AZ doesn't have. It's in the Department of Agriculture, so he really should be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u91	The amounts we are talking about here are in the King's budget. There is also a sum for the royal hunting department. It's called different these days, but that's a bit of a fluttering name. That is why I am asking the Prime Minister, and I want to get an answer to that, because it is in the budget that we are discussing. The minister can say "I don't know anything about it," but there's probably a whole battalion of officials waiting. Ask that question. If the Prime Minister says 'I can't answer it at all today, not even with all those officials', please return to it in writing. But I want to know that answer now, and not just me, but also all those legal scholars who did not even think the term "deception" went far enough. There was talk of legal fraud. I think that is so serious that I really want an answer to that now. If necessary, it will come later by letter, but I want an answer from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u92	I can meet him halfway. I can ask the official whether we still have an answer to Mr Wassenberg's specific question for the second time. But if I'm not, I'm not gonna write a letter. Then my suggestion is that Mr Wassenberg will discuss this with the Minister for Agriculture. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to some more specific questions. In the first place about the golden carriage. That is until Prinsjesdag under the pans at the Amsterdam Museum, so we won't see him. It is indeed primarily up to the king to choose his mode of transport from 2022. That may be the golden carriage, but we simply don't know what he's going to choose. That's really up to him. Then there is the question of representatives of the States-General at the remembrance of the dead. By the way, I very much agree with everyone who said what a special moment that was, on television and for the few who were there. It was also impressive in his sobriety. At the last national commemoration, the National Committee 4 and 5 May had to take into account the emergency regulation in force to prevent the further spread of the coronavirus. They then came to this balance. I will bring the wishes of the Chamber to the attention of the Committee, but this is really up to the Committee on 4 and 5 May, which is there, and not to General Affairs. But I will certainly bring this part of the debate to their attention. The Secretary-General of General Affairs is an advisor to the Committee, so he can even discuss it in person there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u93	That would be very nice. I appreciate that very much. So the committee is completely autonomous in that? As an advisor, the Secretary-General of General Affairs did not take a position on this when there was a protest from the two Presidents of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u94	I'm not going to tell you what's going on in the committee. This is, of course, done in confidence in the committee. The committee ultimately decides that, but it is really up to the committee on the basis of which advice and input it is taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u95	Is that up to the committee, or is that to the minister responsible for the secretary-general who has been attached to the committee as an official adviser, in accordance with the institutional decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u96	Well, it's not like I...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u97	This is a matter of principle. I'd like to hear what the committee says about this, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u98	I will not go into that, because then I will have to give you some insight into what advice has or has not been given. I really don't think that's my role.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u99	This committee was set up by the government in 1987 by your predecessor, Mr Lubbers, with certain powers. If it turns out that the parliament is not invited to a commemoration but a number of other people, which I would not have chosen myself if I had been a member of the committee, rather than a President of the Chamber, then I think that it is in the power of the Prime Minister to do something about it and that this also requires him to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u100	But it's not. The Committee shall decide this. Mr Sneller asks: what were the opinions of the Secretary-General of AZ if they were given on this point? 'Cause they'll be my responsibility. But then I'll give you a look at the discussions on the committee. In the end, the committee makes that assessment. It's not for me to give access to that. I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u101	But that's looking back. If this is the outcome, which I cannot follow and which I have not heard any arguments for, then you have to look ahead: this is a power given by the government to the committee, so perhaps we should look at it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u102	It's possible. But let me begin with the wish to bring the Committee to the attention of the Committee. Let us also hope that next year we will be in a slightly different situation. I'm gonna bring this to your attention. I listened very carefully and really understood the signal. As far as the Council of State is concerned, I would not change that. That's an institution that goes back to 1531. It's purely ceremonial in nature. It is not of any substance for day-to-day work or for decision-making. So I would really be against changing that. Then the grave of Johan van Oldenbarnevelt. The Cultural Heritage Agency carried out a feasibility study at the request of the Ministry of Education, Culture and Science. The Minister of OCW informed the Chamber on 8 July. They then concluded that it is feasible to investigate the graves and any material remains. The research is carried out by the Archaeology Department of the City Administration Department of The Hague. The RCE acts as an advisor. Following the preparation of a programme of requirements and a plan of approach, preparatory research is expected to be possible between mid-2020 and the end of 2021. It is still uncertain whether the DNA will be found, but, as Mr Van Raak and I know, that is why we are doing an investigation. The costs will be covered. So it is now at the stage of a plan of action. I think that Mr Van Raak and I will continue to follow this, whatever position we are in. With him, there's more clarity about that than with me. The motion on 5 May was submitted by the Minister for Social Affairs to the social partners and the Labour Foundation. There has been some delay, but they are talking about it now. They want to come up with a response this fall. Of course, it is now primarily the Foundation of Labour, but there is a clear understanding of the views that also exist here. The king, in line with what Ben Bot said earlier, has apologized for excess of violence. So we're talking about violent derailments. The situation in South Celebes and Rawagade has been the subject of specific attention, but also in a more general sense, in relation to the derailments of violence. So not in general terms for the police actions, but for the abuses of violence that took place at the time. That's what the apology was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u103	Yes, but Mr Bot never used the word excuses and the king is now coming up with a very political statement. The question is, why would he do that? Why was that all of a sudden necessary? And is it true that no one, or almost no one, knew about this in politics in The Hague? It was quite out of the blue and in many newspapers we have read that there is no knowledge of anything in the Council of Ministers or in the coalition. Is that right, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u104	What is discussed in the Council of Ministers is covered by the confidentiality of the Council of Ministers. So I can't say anything about that. But I'm pointing out a few developments. What Bot said indeed went less far, but after that there were situations around South Celebes and Rawagade. Now, of course, there was the very special moment of the King's visit to Indonesia, where it was also intended to work on the future as equal partners. Of course it has a special impact when the king does, but that is also of course what is sometimes used in state visits. That's what Queen Beatrix did in the Knesset in the late nineties. Of course, there are more examples where this played. I think that, given the fact that the Netherlands and Indonesia have had this shared past and have experienced a painful separation, it is also true that our head of state stands still and does not apologize for the fact that the Netherlands has tried to preserve the colony but for the fact that these actions have unfortunately been an excess of violence. There's a lot of clues for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u105	At the end of his reply, the Prime Minister put it a little differently, because then it is about the deployment of Dutch soldiers in width, while at the beginning he seemed to have said that it was about those two incidents. When I listen to the king's quote, it's about the police actions in width. That's really weird. It is also understood in the press. So these two incidents are not taken out at all. The question is a fundamental question: why is this necessary and where does it come from? The Indonesians aren't asking for it. In Indonesia there is no kind of feeling that it is all terrible and the Dutch have to get down on their knees. That sentiment doesn't exist in Indonesia at all. Why does the king suddenly come out of the high hat like a rabbit with those excuses?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u106	I didn't say he made them just for Rawagade and Celebes. I have said that, of course, around and after Bot's statements, this has been relevant developments, as well as the fact that the picture is now building up that there has indeed been excessive violence during the police actions. He also did not apologize for the fact that the Netherlands has made an attempt to maintain the colony, but for the fact that this has been part of that history. If you want to work together on a future relationship... I shall leave Mr Bosma for a moment to assess the need for this on the Indonesian side. I have different views on that. Apart from that, I think it is appropriate that you make an attempt if you come to the conclusion at some point that things have happened there that cannot, in an otherwise self-defense part of our history. Afterwards, of course, we have very different views about colonization and so on. I think that's different in all parties now. But from history as we knew it then, that in itself was a position to be defended by the Schermerhorn, Beel and Drees Cabinets. The fact is that this happened during those actions. Then I think it makes sense for you to pronounce that, if we know and find it, and if the king is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u107	The Prime Minister doesn't want to say anything about the Council of Ministers. I understand. I have two more questions. One. Did the Prime Minister know these excuses were coming? Two. How do these excuses relate to the major research carried out by three institutes currently under way, including the NIOD? That's a very big investigation that's been going on for years. There's a lot to do. Some people are very worried about it. So one: did the Prime Minister know that the apology was coming? And two: how do those excuses relate to that investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u108	Yeah, I knew that. The study looks at the whole situation after the Second World War, at the relationship between the Netherlands and Indonesia on the road to independence. But in the meantime, there is a lot of clarity about what really went wrong during those police actions. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Bij het staatsbezoek van onze koning aan Indonesië kun je niet anders dan stilstaan bij het gedeelde verleden.]] Then that's appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u109	I'm a little slow tonight. Forgive me. I've been standing here since 9:30 this morning. I would like to return to the subject of 4 May and the questions raised by Mr Sneller. Call it feminine intuition, but yet I have the feeling that the story as the Prime Minister puts it here is not entirely correct. He says: I am sending this message to the Committee on 4 and 5 May. Can the Committee of the Regions report back to us on their experience of the last 4 May and their prospects for the coming year? I would appreciate that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u110	That's not up to me. I can also pass on this request, but they are about their own way of working. I fully understand the signal from the Chamber. I will send that message about the presence of at least the President of the United Assembly, and if it is possible for both Presidents of the Chamber to pass on a wish that is clearly alive. I can also pass on this other request, but I'm not going over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u111	Thank you for doing so, because I simply feel that this is not the way to make a decision on its own. I think it is very good that we are getting clarity about that. So thank you for passing that on and I look forward to the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u112	If the committee wants to give access to internal decision-making, it can, but I can't do that for them. That's up to them, if that's the question. But that's not how I understood it. I think they were asking about the experience of May 4th. Then the question about attention to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u113	Oh, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u114	Well, I bring it neatly. I can also ask what has changed between AZ and the committee on this decision-making. I'd like to make that public. But it is indeed about decision-making. I thought I'd bring it in nicely. Now that the Prime Minister is putting it on the spot, I say, yes, I would be delighted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u115	I'll pass it on. That's all I can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u116	But this is about what's been shared at AZ. That's what the Prime Minister is about. The Prime Minister's offering himself, so I'd be happy to accept that offer. We look forward to seeing that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u117	I didn't make that offer. I will pass on the request to the committee to reflect on 4 May. How did they feel about that? I find it extremely uncomfortable to bring things into play in this way. Advice may have been given, one way or the other, but that also affects the confidentiality of that committee. Otherwise, of course, it doesn't work that there are advisors in it. The committee finally decides.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u118	Let me get this straight. The Prime Minister is calling this on himself. I make a very nice request and then he says: Mrs. Kuik is talking about an experience. No, I just want to know how this decision was taken. Next, the Prime Minister himself refers to internal decision-making between AZ and the Committee. Fine, I'd like to know. If that's open, can't I get that information?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u119	No, I'm not gonna do that. I said: I am prepared to ask the Committee to look back on 4 May, specifically the question of the presence of the Presidents of the First and/or Second Chambers. I think that's what it was about. I'm gonna pass that on. I am not going to give you any insight into the decision-making process within AZ in the advisory role of the committee, because if this is part of the parliamentary debate, that whole position of an advisor in that committee is, of course, completely impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u120	Nor was I going to force you to do so or call you on a motion to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u121	Then we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u122	Then we don't agree. I'll wait for the letter from the committee and then we can look further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u123	Let's do it. Mr. Chairman. Attention to each other is important. The corona virus is touching all of us. That was also the theme of the broadcast yesterday of Omroep MAX, which they made very beautiful from Den Bosch. It was about much more, it was about the beginning of a period. Although the virus is already rising, we have to realize that in recent months people have been going through a very difficult time. At the same time, we must realise that the virus will also stay with us for a while. That affects a lot of aspects. You have to realize, for example, that maybe your neighbor hasn't seen her grandchildren for a while, because they can't come by. Well, then maybe it's good to pay attention to that. The young guy, the student who lives two blocks away, has a whole different student time than he thought he'd have. In your neighborhood or in your family, there may be people who have been seriously ill. Maybe you know someone in nursing who's dealing with that second wave again. What makes the Netherlands unique is that we can grumbling, but we stand in front of each other when it comes to it. Then we'll be paying attention to each other. It is not the intention of the government to act in this direction, please do not let that happen, especially by the people themselves, but we do want to offer the platform on which these fantastic examples are visible. Then it can be inspiring for other people. That's why it was so beautiful that Omroep MAX organized it in Den Bosch. From one city of 150,000 people they had collected very nice examples. There were small examples in which people had done very special things, there were also very big things. There was a 24-year-old boy who had taken a very big initiative around Easter and also a 94-year-old veteran could have offered a nice dinner. So small and big, all together. So it is not intended to say "you have to do this," because the Netherlands itself does. But we do want to offer a platform where you make this visible and inspire people to be there for each other in this way. I think that is very valuable and that goes on until the end of the year. And then, of course, we also pay attention to each other. Until the end of the year we pay a great deal of attention to this. We want to highlight the stories, the initiatives. The social, health and funeral organisations will also organise all kinds of activities to collect and share stories and thus inspire each other and show that this is not only a medical problem, it is not only an economic issue of companies that are threatening to fall, entrepreneurs that are having a hard time, people who are at risk of losing their jobs, but that it also has a huge spiritual impact on people. It also affects the spiritual well-being, the loneliness of young and old. As a government, we have the normal facilities with our fantastic health care. But we also want to make visible the tremendous importance of normal human contact. That was very inspiring yesterday. I'm gonna come up with a couple of final topics. One of them was the question of whether I wanted to reflect on my own job. Of course I'd be happy to. So you're gonna have to take a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u124	We're gonna sit for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u125	Why don't you sit down for it? I've only lost the answer now, but I can. The function consists strictly of a few things: promoting the unity of government policy, membership of the European Council and a number of tasks as Secretary of State for General Affairs. What I do notice in recent years is that this function has changed into one aspect. That is in membership of the European Council. I sometimes joke that Europe is inland. The European perspective is, of course, very important in many discussions. We can see that in Brexit, and we can see that in the economic impact of the corona crisis, but we also saw it on other major issues, such as migration in 2015 and 2016. In doing so, the world is increasingly unstable, with major issues surrounding the United States and China as blocs of power, where Europe has to ask itself how it can be not a playing field but a player in those discussions. How do we use all the instruments we have in Europe to play our part in that world stage? It is therefore not only an economic interest, but also a collective interest in the sense that being embedded in strong European cooperation also leads to greater security. These are really big changes in my thinking, partly because of the big changes in the world that I have seen in the last few years. I really do see a difference in that. I am not going to give myself a report on domestic politics, or publish all the successes here, or talk about the single dry leaf between all the lover that might be pointed out, if I did my best. I assume we can leave that to the media and the political opponents. I would like to say something to Mr Van Raak, who was so kind to give me this beautiful booklet: Thinking on the dikes, the Netherlands of the philosophers. I liked that he quotes Helmuth Plessner immediately: "Where in the world is a people more difficult to cope with by big words and ideologies?" Well, I thought, that's an answer to the criticism that hits me sometimes that I don't spend all day with my vision for sale. I do have a view on where the Netherlands is headed. As a liberal, I am more concerned with the journey than with the end. The Socialists have defined an end point. They know what that great world looks like when it's finished. Liberals, I think, are a little more reluctant about that for good reasons. They are more interested in sketching the journey. I will mention a few elements of this in response to Mr Van Raak. By the way, I very much appreciate him in his office, in the contacts we have together about Johan van Oldenbarnevelt and at other times, and how he keeps me sharp in informing the Chamber. I wish him well after the election. I'm sure I'll get that chance in March. Now going into this: I believe in a strong state that is there for the people in the country for those things that you can't take care of yourself if you get into trouble because you lose your job or get sick, or if you get something funny, for example having kids that have to go to school. On all those big issues in life, I believe in a strong state that's there for you. Not as a supplier you're a customer of. We said that earlier in the debate with Mr Sneller. But the state plays a major role in people's lives. That is not necessarily a large state. It is a strong state, which delivers top quality in these areas. I am very proud of our State and of the Netherlands. Our health care is one of the three best in the world; our pension system is one of the best in the world; our social security after Sweden is the most generous in the world. So we've built up some wonderful things together. But, I say, that has to be earned. Three out of four people in this country don't work in the government. They work in a company, or they have a business. In the end, the money is made by which the king, Mr Van Raak and I are paid; through which all those nurses, teachers and doctors are paid; through which all those wonderful people who are paid by the government, municipalities, provinces and water boards are paid. So in such a country you need a strong business that is able to undertake in great freedom. A market master is one of them. You can't just do that. Like the literal, physical market has a market master, that market also needs a market master. Then back to the role of the state. What is at the heart of the task that the state has? What do people in a country think is important in their lives in which the state can play a major role? That is that economic life develops in such a way that there are enough jobs. This also has to do with the fact that companies have the space to do so. And that's that people can live in safety. This concerns physical security in our own neighbourhood, but also, as I just outlined in the European agenda, the realization that the Netherlands is a small country with a high prosperity in a very unstable world. You can't let that small, wealthy country float like an island somewhere in the world. It must be embedded in strong international structures, such as the European Union, NATO, the UN and the WTO. Those are our duties. In the coming years it will then be of great importance to further shape the State, to provide security, to be the shield for the weak where necessary, to raise people who must be exalted, people of ethnic origin, people who flee, come here and develop their talent. I met two more Syrian refugees this afternoon who are both trained for doctor and who speak fantastic Dutch after three years. That too is the Netherlands. Luckily, we could do that here and we could have a little chat with each other. That's what needs to be done. And that will be very important in the coming years, especially if we are to emerge from this crisis. Because a lot of people are worried about their safety, physical, health, and their jobs. So if there is an agenda for the coming years, it is this one. Finally, and then I will stop talking about what the market can organise and what it can not. I would also like to make one point in advance. That neoliberalism, I hope to get a booklet about it one day, because I don't know what it is, I think it's a terrible thing. I am glad that I do not belong to that, because it sounds terribly scary when I hear it from Mr Van Raak. But I am a liberal and, again, I do not know what that term means. If I ask Mr Van Raak if we do not want services to go bankrupt, do they hear on the market? Trying to answer, I don't think you can give an exhaustive answer to that. That's just impossible. I do have a few general notes. I think that the government should intervene if the market is unable or not acceptable to meet a legitimate social need. This can be the case, for example, in non-profitable services, or if we want a certain fair distribution of these services across society. Of course, you can have a whole discussion about that. There is therefore a political discourse here in the Chamber between political parties about what this justified social need is and what a just division is. As a cabinet, we will not always have the same opinion as the SP, but you have discussions about that. In doing so, it is essential that we leave room, maximum, for the freedom and responsibility of people who function in a social cohesion. Yes, the government as a shield. But it is also my belief that people have a basic need for human and social contact, a need to do good for others and to be there for others. Then we, as a government, must also leave room for the growth of the spirit of society. Anfang und Ende of that space is the responsibility and freedom that people must experience personally. And if it does not succeed in life, then indeed Mr Van Raak and I must stand shoulder to shoulder at safe distance unfortunately now, but hopefully also literally shoulder to shoulder again to help people, from the collective interest, to ensure that they do not sink through the ice. I think that's what we can finally agree on, Mr. Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u126	I expect a nice ideological debate now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u127	I like it. I find it even touching in a way. As a socialist, I notice every day that I am ideologically driven, because my ideology is not so dominant. The Prime Minister represents an ideology that has been so dominant for 25 years, and certainly for the last 10 years, that I can imagine that he has not always realised this. Now that neoliberalism is fading, he may also notice how ideologically driven he is. I like to see that. My question was actually much more specific: what does the Prime Minister think should not go bankrupt? We're not on my field right now. I'm gonna sit all the way out on his field. If you start from market thinking, you should also be a market master and think carefully about it: what do we think should be regulated by the market and what do we think should be regulated by democracy? What should be arranged public and some private? So I ask the Prime Minister: does he think hospitals can go bankrupt? Energy companies? D.A.s? System banks, which need to be systematically rescued when they're in danger of going bankrupt? What things does he think shouldn't go bankrupt? I'm talking about things that are on the market right now, but they can't go bankrupt for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u128	There's no answer to that question. Why can't you answer that question? Because exactly the starting point of that answer should be the question: what is the definition of a justified social need? Take hospitals. If a hospital falls over because of poor administration in a region where many other hospitals can take care of it, you have a different situation than if this happens in a region where there is no such possibility. In the Netherlands we've seen this a couple of years ago, we saw that if this happens, it's actually not socially accepted. In the debate I had at the Provincial State elections with Mr Van Raak's group chairman, my view was that care is not a market. There are good reasons for that. But finding that care is not a market does not mean that you cannot ensure that hospitals are comparable so that you can see where they are best in surgery a, b or c. This allows people to choose where they prefer to be helped. I think that kind of freedom of choice is very important. Of course, this can also be done in a system embedded in a strong state structure. Take the health insurance. That's the only piece of real market there is in care. But this is so closely regulated that it is the question of whether it still meets all the definitions of a complete market. To some extent, this is true. So you can't answer that question in black and white. Get an energy company. If this is responsible for the energy supply to crucial parts of our country, such as heating nursing homes and maintaining industries that are very important for jobs in the Netherlands, then such an energy company cannot fall down. Or you have to make sure that it is designed so that such an energy company can be taken over in a certain way by others. It's gonna take the market master again. I'm going to bounce it back to Mr. Van Raak. I think he's falling for the trap himself, putting so much market in front of government. I'm not talking about the market. The market is for licorice, cars and making bicycles. Of course, you have the market for that. But for all those things that directly affect our general well-being, such as education, care, retirement and so on, you can't put it so black and white. You can at best make sure that the people who work in these sectors are kept sharp, so that they know that Mr. Van Raak and I can also make the choice to go to another. I don't think that's wrong. But that doesn't make it a market.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u129	I think it's typical that the Prime Minister says: you can't actually state what's public and what's private. I find this quite remarkable, because the way of organizing through democracy or through the market is completely different. Those responsibilities are also completely different. I'm finishing up, because we shouldn't be talking about this all night.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u130	Well, I think it's a very interesting debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u131	Isn't this at the heart of the problem? Over the past ten years, I have seen with this Prime Minister and the policies of liberalisation, privatisation, outsourcing, precisely that the difference between public and private has become so diffuse. In doing so, responsibilities have become diffuse. We were also talking about the Wet norming top incomes. At that time it was actually not possible to indicate what is public and what is not. Most of it's in between. When you talk about markets and market leaders, isn't the problem that has become unclear about what is public and private, how responsibilities lie, who takes responsibility and who can be addressed for what? Doesn't the Prime Minister see that there's been a mess and a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u132	I'll give you three brief responses. Yeah, there's a risk there, so you have to define it very well. This is also important when you talk about independent administrative bodies within the government and about organisations that are at a greater distance from the government, such as our universities and colleges. Then it is indeed important that you are transparent about where the responsibilities lie and about how the reckoning takes place. I would like to give two other brief comments. The first is that Mr Van Raak is aware of this more often in the thinking of the SP in that extreme contrast between the State and the market, forgetting that the market master is necessary both at the State, in the form of democracy, and at the market itself, often in an almost physical, literal form. In the healthcare sector there is a market master in the form of the NZa, supervisors and so on. It must ensure that as many people as possible end up in the Netherlands with decent care. By the way, this care is not a market, except perhaps health insurance. Finally, my third comment concerns outsourcing. I would point out that in the 1980s and 1990s, both left and right were strongly in favour of outsourcing, because they saw that the government did not do it all perfectly either. You had to wait three weeks for your phone connection. When KPN got self-destruct, you could get that connection within a day. For example, there are a lot of examples that show that putting the government at a more distance, sometimes through privatisation, can lead to improvement. That just shouldn't be a belief. In my opinion, sometimes the SP wants to seek a kind of sacred belief in center-right parties that it is merely outsourcing, putting it at a distance and privatising it is an end in itself. Perhaps that is the case for some of those parties, but at least not for me. The question is every time: what works best here? But in all cases it is necessary that there is the pressure of a certain degree of freedom of choice for people in whom they prefer to be helped. That freedom of choice is very important, because if it is not there, of course you are threatening to fall into the institutional self-interest of large organisations, which in no way feel that pressure is still being exerted by people's choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u133	That was a nice debate, may I say? Don't exaggerate, Mr. Bosma, with "cold chills." But you were ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u134	Yes, I would have liked to have responded briefly to the wonderful speech...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u135	From Mr Bishop, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u136	Yes, I mean Mr Bishop's wonderful speech about Thorbecke and Green van Prinsterer, who, of course, also dominated politics here in the Netherlands in the nineteenth century as a Disraeli and Gladstone. Of course we don't want to forget The Savornin Lohman and others, but it is true. The funny thing is, if you're allowed to work at the Tower, you're looking out for the King's Cabinet. That was, of course, the Green House of Princer. There are of course beautiful descriptions of how Thorbecke and Groen van Prinster once waved at each other, with great respect for each other, sometimes standing opposite each other. Thorbecke was the innovator and Green of Prinster the man who said: beware, the revolution has its drawbacks. They have of course dominated the Dutch state system for 50 years. I find it so beautiful that when I hear Mr Bisschop talking, I think: I do not agree with everything, but we are not that far apart either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u137	Thank you. I'm looking at the MPs for a second term. Then I'll look at Mr. Smalls first. No? Then I give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was indeed a nice debate. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for answering my questions and the commitment to think further and to inform us about the issue of updating the Royal House Financial Statute Act. In support of that, I would like to table a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is regular discussion of the Royal House's finances;]] [[Whereas the transparency of financial accountability is also the subject of regular discussion;]] [[Whereas the current financial system and tax regime for the Royal House dates back to the 1970s and has not been fundamentally revised since;]] [[calls on the Government to set up an independent committee to evaluate the functioning and content of the Royal House Financial Statute Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-I-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u140	Thank you. Mr. Van der Molen? Mr. Van Raak? Mr Van Raak has the floor on behalf of the SP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u141	I have some homework to do. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to include the personal income of the members of the Royal House under the Top Income Standards Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raak and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-I-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u142	Is Mr Van Raak willing to put my name on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u143	I am. I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u144	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u145	I'd be happy to, and maybe that's the case with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to terminate tax exemptions from the members of the Royal House,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raak and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-I-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u146	Mr. Wassenberg co-signed this motion, and so did the previous motion. Can you do it like this? Anything can be done here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u147	Yeah, that's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u148	It's true: the Prime Minister is an ideologist. He's an icon of a time. I wonder if he will continue, and if he continues, I hope he will still have many ideological debates. I think the Prime Minister knows very well what neoliberalism is. He has always been a neoliberal, someone who believed that the market could organise society better than politics. I think he's getting off that. I think he's becoming a classic liberal and classical liberals are trying to take responsibility for things bigger than themselves. Classical liberals want to take responsibility, and that is precisely what did not happen in the time of neoliberalism. I wish him well on that road.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u149	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. I'm gonna miss you. I now give the floor to Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u150	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for your reply. The Prime Minister has been there a lot longer this year than last year, and it was indeed a nice debate. I have fulfilled my commitment to my group again, Mr President! And I didn't even have to do much for it, because it was a nice debate between Mr Van Raak and the Prime Minister. Three points and, first of all, public communication. I welcome the Prime Minister's words on the use of the word "customer." He said, "I'm not going to announce it, but I'm going to promote it." We will therefore continue to follow it ourselves. The second point is the use of social media. It was about me being referred to a Facebook message on Twitter. That it can be found at the same time on Rijksoverheid.nl is nice, but I would like to make that a kind of preferential channel. You reach people on social media, but if you then redirect them, I think you can do just fine to a neutral public site. The influencers. I think the Prime Minister said it nicely: paid for by or by order of. That's really more than just a hashtag. I do not think that this need to be recorded, because it is understood by the National Information Service. I welcome the commitment on 4 May that the request will be passed on. I hope we will be able to hear that from the committee. Of course, I would like to join with the Prime Minister in saying that hopefully it will not be necessary to bring it back this way, but I think it is right that we should be able to talk about it again here. The King's allowance and income. Thank you for the generous explanation on the implementation of the adopted motion. I'm very curious about the question of what he'll come back to before the end of the year. Perhaps this year, after the annual report on the internal affairs legislative consultation, we will be able to hold a second debate in one year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u151	Thank you, Mr. Faster. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that one of the conditions for the opening-up of nature reserves is that the area is open to the public 358 days a year;]] [[noting that the Kroondomain itself is closed annually from 15 September to 25 December;]] [[noting that the grant decision for the Kroondomain proper differs from the legal grant conditions for nature reserves;]] [[noting that the legal basis of this grant decision is open to doubt by the State's lawyers;]] [[whereas it is undesirable that there is a lack of funding for the Crown Domain around EUR 4.7 million;]] [[noting that the Court should be able to carry out its audit function;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that all the underlying documents in the current Kroondomain Domain Grant Decision are shared with the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-I-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u153	In my final second, however, I would like to say once again that I find it really disappointing that I have not received an answer from the Prime Minister to a question about his own King's budget. It would be too complicated, but fog is created. The Prime Minister didn't take away that fog, he maintained it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u154	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. Mr Bishop has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u155	Thank you, Mr President. When I thought I was gonna take the floor anyway, I thought, "Would you like me to bring you an A4 for camouflage?"
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u156	But I've decided not to. I would like to speak for a few reasons. Firstly, to thank the Prime Minister for answering the questions. I think that is a good parliamentary practice. I would also like to thank you for the way in which the debate has been held with Mr Van Raak. I enjoyed that very much. Every once in a while, you just have to do that. I would also like to thank you for the start of the follow-up debate on Thorbecke versus Groen van Prinsterer, because that is also worthwhile. The fact that they found each other, in my opinion, has something to do with the fact that both of them, from their own religious beliefs or philosophical vision, were driven by the search for: what is the importance of the community? How can we serve society? Each then does so from one's own identity, from one's own philosophical belief. As long as we can all show respect for each other over and over again, that can be a blessing for society, I think. Mr. Chairman. So I've decided not to file that motion. As I have also noticed from the interruptions, it still requires a little more careful discussion in advance. If you make that some kind of empty statement that's then rejected, you're gonna put the horse behind the carriage, and I didn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u157	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Then this brings us to the end of the second term. I understand the Prime Minister wants to suspend for ten minutes. Then I'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u158	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u159	Mr President, I would like to make one more attempt towards Mr Wassenberg, but I think that after that I am really stuck. Then I come to the motions, perhaps also to be discussed by Mrs Schouten, the Minister of LNV. Is there a fog created about the availability in the Chamber questions about the Crown Domain? My answer would be: no, the subsidy is included in the extracompatible annex. It's not part of the King's budget. The answers of the Minister of LNV to the parliamentary questions are clear. The Minister provided the grant on the basis of the Framework Act EZ grants under similar application of the Grant Regulation Nature and Landscape Management Gelderland 2016. The legal basis is therefore not the Gelderland grant regulation. It is a policy-based interpretation of its competence. It is free to derogate from this Regulation. It has also done so on the point of Article 2.9 of the regulation because of the protection of privacy. I would like to add that. Then I'm out of ammo, so whatever comes next, I'm really gonna have to ask you to get back to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u160	Thank you. This privacy concerns 1 hectare and not 7,200 hectares. That is the difference, and that is why I said that it cannot be hung on that at all. But I understand that the Prime Minister has nothing left, so I will have to continue the fight in writing with the Minister of LNV. We will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u161	Agreed. Thank you. Then there's the motions. I would advise against Mrs Özütok's motion to refer to the debate. As I have said, I would like to return to the question or question of the A component in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u162	I understand the Prime Minister's reference to the debate. Then I'll hold my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u163	At the request of Mrs Özütok, I propose her motion (35570-I, No. 5) to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u164	Then the motion to part No. 6 by Mr... Let's see. From Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u165	From Mr Van Raak and Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u166	From Mr. Wassenberg, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u167	Van Raak and Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u168	Van Raak and Wassenberg? Excuse me. From Mr Van Raak and quickly, as a warrior, Mr Wassenberg. I would advise against this for reasons that we discussed in the debate. I am afraid that is true of most of the motions here. The motion in part No. 7 by Mr Van Raak and Mr Wassenberg are concerned with the tax exemption. We have also talked about this very often in debates. That's why I don't recommend it. The motion in part No. 8 on Kroondomain Het Loo I would advise against. I assume that Mr Wassenberg will come back to that when he discusses this matter with the Minister for Agriculture. It was a nice debate, and we will come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u169	Thank you. It was indeed a nice debate. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u170	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. Mr. Van Raak, this was your last budget handling of General Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u171	Yes, indeed!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u172	Now the long goodbye begins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-8.u173	Well! But you're still here, thank God. I thank everyone and close the meeting.
