ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u1	Then we will go to the last question, by Mrs Kuik, about distortions in youth care and huge profits for small providers. The question is put to the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport, whom I would also like to welcome. Go ahead, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Every child must be given the opportunity to get the best out of life, even if life is one time uncomfortable. That is why we also have a system of youth care, which must ensure that children and parents receive care and help at the time when that is happening. We expect a system that is not about the profit or market forces of healthcare institutions, but that really has an eye for the child or the parents. For a number of years, however, we have been running into the fact that a large number of institutions are in danger of falling apart. We saw it with Juzt and The Hoenderloo Group. We knew it wasn't going well. And now there is another new study, from 2018, which shows that one third of the youth care institutions that provide complex care are in danger of falling over. We don't have the 2019 figures yet, but they also look dramatic. That's why my next questions to the Secretary of State. Do we have a current picture of 2019? Does the Secretary of State recognize himself in these figures? Why do we allow some organisations to make huge profits while other organisations are threatening to fall down because the tariffs are not appropriate? And when can we finally expect action from the Secretary of State? I know there's a bill on purchasing in the social domain, with a hook for differentiation in tariffs. But that's been going on for a long time. When can we expect that? Mr. Chairman. I'll have more questions later, but let's start with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr President. This is an important issue, which Mrs Kuik rightly raises here. Child care is something that concerns the entire Chamber. We need adequate and good assistance for children in a vulnerable position and their families. It's really a shame that it has to be about money again. The reason is obvious. It's not a reproach to Mrs. Kuik, but unfortunately it's about money. On the one hand, the issue it raises is well-known, because the Youth Authority has also carried out research into large healthcare providers, and it has already established that some of them are in financial difficulties. A floor survey is currently under way. This will be completed in October. I will also send that to the Chamber, so that we can compare it to the extent to which it is parallel to the research carried out by Youth Care Netherlands. In any case, that image is recognizable and at the same time very worrying. I'll share that image right away. The special feature of the Netherlands Youth Care study is that it appears that, at the same time, significant profits can be made by the smaller providers in particular. Those worlds are very difficult to unite with each other. It's up to us to bring these worlds together. Tomorrow there will be an administrative consultation with the trade associations of youth care and the municipalities. I would certainly like to raise this issue, because it is an appropriate subject. So it's right on the agenda. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kuik asks me: what is happening right now? We're putting the problem, the situation, into perspective. I shall inform the Chamber on this matter in the very near future. What we can already do for the care continuity is the following. We have, of course, the Youth Authority, which must ensure continuity. As far as suppliers at risk of falling down are concerned, we would prefer to have an early warning system, so that we can see right away what is threatening to go wrong and we can intervene as soon as possible. That's what's happening now. Legally, things are also in the pipeline. One of them mentioned Mrs. Kuik. We are working on an AMvB real price, which should also include handles, for example determining elements for the cost price, which should be taken into account by purchasing municipalities. Those are the things that run legally. At the same time, we have the big profits. We have to act on that, too, I think. What can happen in the short term? Municipalities, as purchasing parties, can include in their contracts and even in regulations framework conditions and hard criteria to limit profits or to at least have an insight into the fact that profits are being made. They can make agreements about that in their contracts. For example, they can also record the payment of market-based prices for real estate, earnings and products in contracts. So that's where you can send it. This is good for a number of municipalities, but in others it seems to lead to significant profits being made. But that's already possible. What we are going to legally initiate, and that concludes my response, Chairman... is the bill of Integrity Business Care Providers. It also includes the motion by Mrs Kikken and Mr Peters, which asks to examine what measures can be taken to prevent excessive profit distribution. It's incorporated into that bill. Finally, Mr President. Another legislative process that runs is the delegated regulation covered by the Adaptation Act Accession Health Providers and Youth Act, the AWtza. They use criteria that suppliers have to meet in order not to achieve excessive profits.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u5	I always cut Members of Parliament off because they have to stay within their speaking time, but that is not only true of them. The same applies to all rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u6	I tried to talk very quickly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u7	I understand that, but this also applies to directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u8	Talking, talking, talking, maybe that's the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u9	That's not what I meant by this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u10	No, but I'll hook up. There's been research going on for years. There's been talk for years. We're sitting six months before the election. We're looking at a ship that's very slowly bouncing against an iceberg and we don't seem to be able to make any change in that. We already know that this is a problem, we know that this differentiation of rates is necessary, we know that there are health cowboys, we know that there are too high profits, but everywhere I hear: just a moment longer, we are still in consultation; we need to do a further in-depth examination. This Secretary of State is here for another six months. His portfolio has been widened by what was in Minister De Jonge's office. When can we expect something now? I do not want to wait until tomorrow, because we already know which institutions are going to fall down. Really. At Juzt, we knew that six months before. At De Hoenderloo Groep we knew that six months in advance. We can define which institutions are going to do that even more. If that is the case, we have sad parents again, we have sad care workers who cannot provide the care or education they want and we have young people who are on the border with Germany again because they don't know what to do because they have completely lost their base and their stability. I am so angry about this, because this is about children and about child care, but all we can do is talk about the system. I don't like talking about money at all. Every time we hear again: he is such a multifaceted monster. Each time we are sent back into the woods with the same next consultation or investigation or the same next bill. In October, we're gonna have that investigation. Do we have that, that and that kind of action, yes or no? That's what I want to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mrs. Kuik has two things to say. That is first and foremost the care continuity. It points out that large providers who offer very important care are threatening to fall. That's why we have that earlywarning system. That seems to be paying off, because we now have a much earlier picture of which organizations are in severe weather. The investigation I'm sending to the Chamber in October will indicate that. And what are we going to do about it? I have indicated that there will be legislation that tightens things up, but I have also pointed out that the Youth Authority already has the opportunity to intervene. I can't make it any prettier. I think it's all hands on deck to act on that as soon as possible. The second case mentioned by Mrs Kuik is the fight against profits. I believe that the motion tabled by Mrs Kuik and Mr Peters, which I have just mentioned, was tabled last year. Minister De Jonge gave a response in March this year, stating how he deals with it. At the moment, as we speak, that is being translated into the legislation I just appointed. As far as I am concerned, we are going through that route as quickly as possible, but carefully. We could then table the relevant bill at the beginning of next year. Apart from that, I am sticking to what I said: even now, municipalities in the contracting process can strongly steer against profits.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u12	Finally, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u13	We're gonna ask all kinds of questions later. We will also have the Youth legislative consultation later. I therefore expect a concrete answer to the question of when what will happen. 'Cause really, in six months it'll be done. Then we have a missionary period and before you know it, we look at all kinds of institutions that have fallen over. That's not so bad, but it's a pity that the waiting lists get up again and that Jan, Marie and all kinds of other people we know, who I won't call by name and by name, will be on a waiting list again. There's my big concern. I know that I am supported in this by my colleagues in the Chamber, because we are in this together, but there is a bit of patience. Those kids, these kids, they can't wait anymore, and neither can those parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u14	I really don't need to be convinced of the urgency. You have a Secretary of State in front of you who is very motivated to speed this up. If we table the bill at the beginning of next year, I hope that it will be dealt with as well and that it will not be declared controversial at the same time. In the meantime, we'll do what we can. Perhaps I can say to Mrs Kuiken that in the run-up to the legislative consultation she is referring to, the legislative consultation of 23 November, we are sending a letter to the Chamber in which I state at what point in time what step is being taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u15	Thank you. Then I have Mr Peters and Mrs Westerveld. First Mr Peters on behalf of the CDA and then Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u16	I have two follow-up questions. In the article on which these questions are based, large suppliers are compared to small suppliers. Is that right? Isn't it really a heavy concern towards light care, where ultimately it turns out that with light care gold money can be earned? Is that a picture? Is my view that the amount of light care providers in particular has increased enormously? Maybe we're a little freaked out... that's my interpretation... and we don't have time, money and energy left to do enough for the children with heavy care. That's my first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u17	I think I share Mr Peters' assessment, but I can't prove it. I didn't do that investigation myself. Of course, I've taken note of it. Let me agree with the Chamber that I will deal with that aspect, with the magnifying glass on it, in the same letter I have promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u18	I am glad that at least it is out of the world that it would be between large suppliers and small providers, but that it is therefore a matter of heavy and light care. Then there's my other question. I once tabled a motion on the scope of youth aid. I asked them to examine whether we could find anything of this scope in The Hague and whether we were not going to call too much light care for which taxpayers should pay 'care'. An investigation was carried out at the time and it showed, in response to the VNG, that it was not necessary at all to amend the law and that the scope could be very limited locally. My simple question is: does the Secretary of State now see reason to reconsider this and possibly re-examine it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u19	I think that's a very big question. I also think it is a real question. I think Mr Peters knows the municipal domain very well. We have the same roots in it. Let me agree with the Chamber that at least I want to face this question seriously. I would also like to discuss with the branches and municipalities what falls within the scope of the Youth Act and what otherwise falls within the social domain. I think we also agree that it has to fall under something. Of course, we also have informal care, which is not regulated by law. If it's not covered by the Youth Act, it could be part of Wmo. I would like to interpret this question very widely and take it into account. What is covered by the Youth Act? Has this scope not been stretched too far and will we not be financing aid too easily at the expense of heavy aid? I want to take that question seriously, but I am not going to answer that comprehensive question now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u20	That's what you said. Then the Chamber will be informed, I presume? Then Mr Peters will no longer have to ask a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u21	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u22	Then that's settled, too. Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u23	Indeed, we have often seen with the whole Chamber that the aid to young people who are most vulnerable, who are knocking everywhere and always standing in front of closed doors and who have the most serious problems, is not in order. Last year, the entire Chamber supported an amendment by GroenLinks, which would add 26 million more to centres of expertise, to places, to more knowledge to help young people in a very vulnerable position. But when settings fall down on the other side, I'm afraid those extra spots won't be there. I would like to ask the Secretary of State how he can guarantee that more institutions will not fall down and how he can guarantee that the 26 million will actually reach these young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u24	We must be able to promise that the 26 million will actually reach those young people. The question of whether I can guarantee that no more youth institutions will fall, I think is a comprehensive question. I am not going to promise that either, especially since youth care providers can go bankrupt in the system. If there is then a warm transfer, if care continuity is guaranteed, then I find that much more important than the phenomenon of the provider remains. It is important that we have a coherent system, because what I did not just mention to Mrs Kuik is that of course we are also working on the legislative proposal to improve availability care for young people. It also calls for better cooperation within the region, between municipalities and more direction on procurement, so that the necessary functions are purchased.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u25	Mr Wörsdörfer on behalf of the VVD and then Mr Raemakers on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u26	It is a pity, of course, that you have to talk about money when you talk about youth care, but that is no different. I think the question that Mr Peters just asked about thinking about what is covered by youth aid is quite right. I also think that we could make a statement on this. The Secretary of State, as well as the Chamber, could comment on what we feel to be and not to be covered by youth aid. One example from that article was homework guidance. Of course, that's not youth aid at all. I think that's helping. You don't have to do any new research for that. You could already say something about that with each other. At the same time, you should focus on greater commitment from the practitioners, because these are the people who work in these municipalities, who understand what the offer is, who know the young people and who make a good connection between what is the right help. My question to the Secretary of State is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u27	I was thinking, when's that question coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u28	...is he willing to bet on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u29	I see this as a follow-up to Mr Peters' question, but I would nevertheless like to give a profit warning: as a Chamber, you should not seek to narrow down the definition of 'youth care'. For example, when I was alderman, I had contacts with fellow aldermen who financed the placement of a rooftop chapel from the youth care budget. And why? Because with this an extra room in the house was realized, making more foster care possible in the family. It allowed the foster kids to stay both ways. I think that is precisely why we decentralised youth care to the municipalities, to think very much out of the box. If, with a narrower definition, we destroy those very creative solutions that help children and families, we are far from home, I think. I do not think that is what Mr Wörsdörfer wants. Will we also make the agreement here, which is going to be a fine letter, I think that we will also talk about what youth aid is and what its scope is in the run-up to the legislative consultation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u30	Yes. Mr Raemakers on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u31	Another problem facing the larger youth care institutions in particular is that they have had to pay corporate tax for a number of years. Youth care institutions must retain a certain percentage of profits each year so that, if they lose the following year, they can at least ensure the continuity of care for those young people. That corporate tax, of course, restricts them in that possibility. Youth care institutions are the only, or one of the few health care institutions that are not excluded from that corporate tax obligation. How does the Secretary of State feel about that? Does he want to work on a solution for youth care institutions that suffer from this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u32	There is no specialist in corporate taxation here, but I almost hear a motion from Mr Raemakers if I do not come up with an idea myself. This cannot be done during this Question Time, of course, but we will have a legislative consultation later. I don't want to get rid of it easily, but I do want to deal with your question seriously. If I say anything about that right now, I'm gonna yell at myself. I take this aspect into account in the same letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u33	Good. It's gonna be a long letter, I think. Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u34	We must not forget that on the demand side there are parents who cannot take care of their children. Follow the Money has now started an investigation. I wonder if in the meantime the Secretary of State can offer something, stick patches, until we have changed the law and introduced other instruments. What Band-Aids can we stick so people don't suffer from waiting lists?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u35	In answering this question, I think we should look at how the responsibilities are divided. The municipalities are the governing party to youth aid. They are the financiers and buy youth care. The suppliers shall be the parties carrying out the contracts. Those two parties have to settle that nicely. In the case of youth care providers, the hard duty is to ensure a warm transfer, for continuity, if they are likely to fall over or cannot offer the care that a child in the care needs at that time. That's how it's done. If it turns out that things go wrong, that the care is not there, there is also another infrastructure. If an aid worker threatens to fall, of course we have the regular route of the Youth Authority, which can even help financially. So there's a whole stut and support structure. I think it is also good for Mr Van Otterloo to know that the VWS ministry is also in frequent contact with providers who have very urgent questions about how to provide adequate help to parents. So, from all sides, there is stut and support work offered. Unfortunately, it happens that parents and children are not helped as they would like. That's the imperfection of the system. To all of us the great challenge of making that system better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-4.u36	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments and then we shall vote. I thank the Secretary of State, of course.
