ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u1	As usual, we shall begin oral Question Time on Tuesday. This time we will begin with Mr Jetten's question on behalf of D66 to the Minister of Justice and Security about a divine service of 600 people. I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last Sunday there were church services in the Netherlands where 600 people were present and there was plenty of singing. And that in a week in which the number of corona infections rises, the number of hospital beds and ic-beds increases significantly and the regular care is scaled down in several provinces. It is also understandable that the cabinet therefore announced additional restrictive corona measures last week, but these are measures that are also difficult for a lot of people. The images of such a divine service with a great turnout where there is singing, therefore, understandably evoke a sentiment of injustice and inequality in a society. Mr. Chairman. That is why I have the following questions for the Minister. What has the Minister done to prevent honorary services from taking place with such a high turnout at all? Since the minister made new arrangements with church organizations on Monday, again a pastor in Hilversum and a predecessor of a reformed church who called on churches and churchgoers not to comply with the new arrangements made by the minister with ecclesiastical organizations. I'm asking the Minister what he's going to do to prevent that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. The freedom of religion and belief, Article 6 of our Constitution, is a great asset. Let me really put that first. That does not alter the fact that we are dealing with a disastrous pandemic, COVID-19. And that's something we can only fight together. I would like to stress that, from the start of the corona crisis, I am talking about the period from about the end of February/beginning of March, where the various religious communities and communities of belief have been very valuable. They have volunteered for the corona measures and have also voluntarily followed them. That is also what Communiqués have been made for. Last Monday, around the press conference, we also had several discussions with the different domes. It explains the new measures and it has also been agreed that, as in the previous phase, we have regular consultations with each other. Last weekend it came to me that in a number of places things did not go as we would like. I've been worried about that. In any case, I discussed this with the Inter-Church Conference on Monday morning. After that, a number of parties, which I shall refer to as such, made another joint statement on religious and philosophical meetings. I call the Central Jewish Consultation, the Contact Body Muslims and Government, the Hindu Council Netherlands, the Buddhist Union Netherlands and the Interkerelijk Contact in Public Affairs. That's also to indicate: okay, we're in a situation now that it's okay to tell us exactly what needs to be done right away. That is how the communiqué was made. This Friday I will continue to talk to these organisations, because I want to stay in consultation, because I know that this is a great sacrifice that is being made. I also want to talk about the question: what is the perspective for the coming time and how can we proceed? For I would like to conclude, Mr President, by emphasising once again that we are working together to combat that virus. It is about the vulnerable in our society, but it is also about preventing the overload of care and, worse, what could result from it. The cabinet realizes that a lot of people are already doing a huge amount of work, but we still need each other, also in terms of complying with certain measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u5	Thank you for the Minister's reply. Given that constitutional law, it is of course important that he, in consultation with ecclesiastical organisations, looks at what is possible in a safe and responsible manner in respect of worship services. However, given the understandable responses from society in recent days, it is also a question of how the Minister will ensure that the support in society is maintained for that broad package of restrictive corona measures proclaimed by the cabinet. As I said earlier, these measures are just a lot of people. Theaters often only allow up to 30 people or cannot organize performances at all. Students have not been able to attend physical education for months and are therefore lagging behind in education. In recent days, other churches, mosques and synagogues have decided not to perform worship services and do them online or to allow up to 30 people to do so. At 10:00 p.m., Horeca entrepreneurs have to escort their customers out of the business and then see how those same customers at the supermarket do their shopping to continue the party at home. Mkb entrepreneurs keep their heads above water with a lot of pain and difficulty. I also mention all those parents who have to drop their children off at the schoolyard or on the outskirts of the sports club because they are not allowed in and are not allowed to go to the sports field. This constitutional regulation on religious freedom is important, but the call to churches, mosques and synagogues to deal with it responsibly is at least as important. My question to the Minister is therefore how he and the rest of the cabinet will, over the next few days, make an effort to maintain the support in society for that broad package of corona measures, now that a small group does not wish to comply with these corona measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u6	I think it is a little premature to say that a small group does not wish to abide by this. I would like to begin by saying this spring that there has been a great deal of full willingness in all religious communities and communities of beliefs. That's the first thing. The second is something I have said a number of times before. I am also personally committed partly to looking at solutions for sectors that... How do I put it? Let me do it this way: solutions to correct the suffering caused by this as much as possible. Furthermore, I am partly committed to just looking together to see how we can make the best possible progress in the coming period. I do the same with the religious communities and the communities of belief. I have also indicated that, if that is a meaningful contribution, I would like to explain again personally to predecessors and others why this is so important and that this is not something we as a government want to impose. This is a huge fateful pandemic, where we are really only able to come out together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u7	Finally, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for these ongoing efforts. We have to note that because of the constitutional freedom of religion, the rules we have around corona are not the same for everyone. But that also means that we all have a responsibility in the Netherlands to use that freedom in a sensible way and not to put others at risk. We can only get the spread of that corona virus together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u8	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I shall go first to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union and then to Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you, Madam President. There was indeed a fuss about a service in Staphorst on Sunday and it goes without saying that everyone has a responsibility in combating the corona crisis and that the same applies to churches. But there was also a fuss on Monday. After it was announced that there were agreements about church services that only 30 people are allowed to serve, there was a lot of fuss at churches. So, so much indignation there was on Sunday, so much indignation there was on Monday, but then at churches. In Gouda a cultural event was allowed to house 250 people in a church, but that same church was allowed only 30 people on Sunday. That, too, evokes a sense of injustice. I have come to know churches as institutions that take responsibility and want to behave responsibly, but they do want to be treated equally and they also want to be treated fairly. And this feels unjust.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u10	First of all, I should like to deal with the matter of the fuss that has arisen, because I think that I should do so. I regret it too, but I thought it was very important to do it like I did. As a result of the concerns I had, I first asked the inter-Church consultation body, because we have always consulted very well with each other: let us first discuss with each other and see how we can get out of this in a good way. Because we are really in the situation, and I say this quite honestly, we are indeed expecting very substantial sacrifices from everyone in society in relation to those group sizes of 30. I have just said that I feel quite ready to explain again and again personally why this is, and that it is not to punish people: you have not complied properly with the rules. No, the painful thing is that a lot of people are aware of that in the support studies too, and that this is necessary; look at the rising figures and the like. For the second point, the church of Gouda, I have an explanation why you can sometimes see different things in one building, because that church has a museum function throughout the week. For a flow-through location, the maximum number of people depends on how many people can safely be present in that location at any time, taking into account the 1.5 meters et cetera et cetera, which determines the safety region. There is also a need to reserve this and to align it with the security region. The church in Gouda is indeed a special situation in this respect, because it is both a church and a museum. But once you get the situation that people sit together for a long time and there is no flow, the "maximum 30" rule applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u11	Mr Segers, second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u12	Churches want to do their best. They've taken responsibility. They've all taken precautions. That was, as far as I am concerned, exemplary, as I have seen with my own eyes. Where there seemed to be an exception in favour of churches, it now seems to be reversed. If 250 people are allowed to come to the same church on Saturday night and there is only room for 30 on Sunday night, that feels unjust. I would like to ask the Minister to consult again with churches and talk about local customization. On 20 May there was a motion from my hand, signed by Mr Pieter Heerma and colleague Van der Staaij, who also asked for this consultation. I don't know if that motion was followed. Local customization would be looked at. My call is: go talk again and see if there is local customization, for example in Gouda, but also in all those other places. For the indignation that was there on Sunday, I understood, but I also understand very well the indignation of Monday, because churches feel, with all the responsibility they have and take, now unheard of.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u13	I understand that people are extremely unhappy. I really have to say that I am sorry about that "unruly" thing, but that is a little too far. Last week, as a cabinet, we announced national measures that say very clearly: group size is limited to 30. There are a number of exceptions; I am not going to go into that now. We also said why that is. This has to do with combating large groups as much as possible. It's a simple way to sum it up. I just explained the difference between the two functions of the church in Gouda. You could also say in Amsterdam: why in the Westerkerk only 30 people are allowed in the Rijksmuseum during the day or during a certain period? But that is precisely the point of the distinction in transit. I come to local customization, but at least we are using the advice and rules given to us by the experts. For me, the fact that experts say something doesn't mean we're totally free. No. It's not like the Cabinet has some kind of arbitrariness in that. Now I come to customization. I said, as I said last week, that I will continue to consult each other on Friday. I have also indicated that I would like to talk on Friday with the representatives of the Inter-Church Dialogue, but also with the other domes, about what perspective we can offer each other. But in these few weeks, we're really on those strict rules that apply to everyone. By the way, churches voluntarily commit to that. I continue to stress that this is about Article 6 of our Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u14	Let's get back to Staphorst first. I understand very well that people who suck at all kinds of corona measures see the images of Staphorst and say, "What's going on?" But there's another side too. I also see in Staphorst a church that normally has more than 2,000 people in it. So there are hundreds of people at home already making sacrifices. I see people for whom Sunday worship is extremely important. She's their sweetheart. Week in, week out, they make every effort to implement the rules as best they can. And then they're put away, threatened and even intimidated. This beats wounds. What does the Minister think is doing with these people? Does he want to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u15	I think it is extremely bad, and I read it in one of the news reports that churchgoers in Staphorst would be threatened and intimidated. I would like to say out loud: that is totally unacceptable to me. There's no reason for that either, because we're all saying we have to do this together. I would stress that on the one hand freedom of religion plays a role. Mr Van der Staaij also knows that I have spoken to other similar church communities, so to speak. I see how much it hurts people. But the point is, of course, that we have to find some sort of optimum together to get through that virus. Again, I want to say that this is not an empty commitment, because that agreement was already in place with the religious communities and the communities of belief to continue talking about how we are going to make a more focused, specific perspective, as well as I do with a number of business sectors. But now we are really in this, I hope very temporary, urgent situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u16	My second question. I'm going from Sunday's fuss to Monday's fuss. Minister, after Monday's commotion, it wouldn't be a good administration to arrange so early in the morning with churches that they would go back to 30 "voluntarily" everywhere, regardless of the situation? Why the three of us? Why the rush? Why isn't it taking some time to calm down this week to see what customisation is appropriate? I think we're in this room with 50 people, too. Why? Because we think it's an important fundamental right. That applies to demonstrations and churches. We said after the first wave: it shouldn't be so threesome and drastic anymore; we have to do customization. Why is that once again left the best commotion after the first one? Will the Minister see later this week whether more justice can really be done in this respect to the different conditions for churches?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u17	I really reject the idea that there is trinity here. Mr Van der Staaij knows that I have already had a discussion on this on Saturday. 'Cause I saw what happened. But, yeah, that was Saturday. I spoke to a number of dome representatives on Sunday evening about this. I said that we must talk about this on Monday. I found it important to do so immediately, precisely because I think there was an unjustified sentiment towards large parts of religious communities. By the way, there was also a much too heavy sentiment towards this religious community. I also understand how painful and complicated it is for people. Monday morning I had a good meeting at 08.30 or 09.00 o'clock. I don't know exactly. I then said to the domes: let's see how we get out, but I am now in a meeting in the House of Representatives from 09:30 until 11:30. I left them alone then. We had contact again at 11.15 a.m.; the consultation, the legislative consultation, was done a little earlier. At some point in time these developments have taken place. I'm behind that. I think it's a good thing. But there was no trinity. It is also right to avoid a negative label as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u18	Mr Van der Staaij also mentioned other fundamental rights. I want to say something about freedom of association. Think of the Dutch Women's Council, fellow cancer patients and my own Nivon. In the Netherlands there are a lot of people active in associations. They often draw meaning and comfort from that, even in these complicated times. The right to association is also enshrined in our Constitution, in Article 8. It is a right of freedom, as is the right of religion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u19	Now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u20	Is it true that these two rights are not treated equally? Or is the minister just as hard in consultation with the association system on the basis of the same voluntary nature as he is in consultation with the religious organizations?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u21	I'll say this about that. My wallet extends to many sides, but not this way yet. But if there has been too little consultation with the association system so far, I really can't judge that right now. I will immediately admit that the cabinet will take this up and ensure that we have such consultation in any case within a week. But it's a little out of my league, so I can't say much about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u22	Isn't that an answer to the question, Mrs Buitenweg?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u23	It is said all the time 'Article 6 of the Constitution'. I think that's very important. But I would point out that there are other articles. My question is whether these different rights of freedom... They're both freedom rights. Are they treated in the same way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u24	My apologies, through you, Chairman, to Mrs Buitenweg. That's right. I might have wanted a little too much for the two parts, which weren't even in the question. I believe that fundamental rights are weighted as they are. So there's no order of precedence in it. The Supreme Court has said a few things about this in the past. It will also depend very much on certain situations whether one fundamental right outweighs the other. But there are a number of classical fundamental rights that belong to the right of association which have a considerable significance. It is not so much a matter of appealing to me, as Minister of Justice and Security, to the fact that a ranking has been established, in the vein of: this fundamental right must now weigh more heavily than that fundamental right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u25	I think a lot of people can understand that right in these times people need to get together with fellow believers. But we got quite a lot of angry reactions from the reports about Staphorst. People say: I am sitting at home listening to the sermon precisely because we have this problem; can I assume that this will not happen again? I would also like to put this question to the Minister: can we all assume that we want the Corona directives to be complied with?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u26	Let me come back to the beginning, Article 6 of the Constitution. The religious communities and communities of belief have, on their own, said that this was very valuable from the beginning of the pandemic that they were going to focus on the corona measures. They've really done more than that. In the period when there were already group sizes of 30, there were countless religious communities that kept limiting it because of the vulnerable in our society and so on. I think it is absolutely also the intention of yesterday's communiqué to stress once again that they want to do so as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u27	I have Mrs Kuik on my list and then Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK. Mrs. Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u28	I do not feel that there is any need to restrict fundamental rights. The Minister says he regrets the fuss. We get that a lot. But what I don't understand so well myself is this: I'm just asking the question. It still feels a bit like mopping, because at the beginning of the first corona outbreak very clear agreements were made, including with religious institutions, to limit group sizes as much as possible. Then everything was released and so was it. And only Saturday, because we knew what was going to happen in Staphorst, we looked again at the religious institutions to get back to the 30th standard. Then it seems to be a little incident driven and not very much from a policy that you can hold on to for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u29	Mr President, I would just like to make it absolutely clear that this is not about agreements. The religious communities and the communities of belief themselves have said: we have the willingness to waive, to some extent, our right to celebration of faith or belief, and we are going to voluntarily comply with the measures as they can be imposed in general terms. I do not find it unusual in itself that people were getting used to the fact that measures in general have become heavier in society on a number of points and that they have had to come back from enlightened regimes. In any case, I do not have a very judgmental attitude. It's not incident driven, because this is... Like I said, for the past seven months, six months we've... That is what I wanted to say to Mr Segers' question on his motion. When he filed that motion, we had been in consultation for two months, but I thought it was a little silly to say that directly. We have continued to do so periodically, even with updated communiqués.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u30	Then I'll go to Mrs. Chicken for her second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u31	However, it cannot be denied that due to the news about Staphorst, there has been another consultation on Saturday. What makes it seem that you can make appointments with all kinds of institutions, but in Staphorst you run into a barricade? Wasn't the policy clear enough? Was the feeling that there was all freedom? Or should the cabinet have spoken out more strongly than it should have? I'm just looking for the continuity of this story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u32	If it turns out that it did not come across well on Monday when it said 'these are the new measures; they should all apply', then we, as a cabinet, have to look at whether we have done 100% right. The most important thing is that we are indeed in a continuity of consultation with and voluntary agreements of religious communities. I'd really like to continue with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u33	Freedom of religion is very important. People must be free to live their religion. They must be free to go to a church, to a mosque, a synagogue or a temple. In response to questions from Mr Van der Staaij, the Minister replied that these death threats cannot be rejected. I get that. Is he actually going to take measures so that he can give the guarantee that all faith communities, especially now in these uncertain times in churches, synagogues, mosques or temples, will be able to confess their faith in all safety, even if it is with 30 men or women?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u34	Mr. Chairman. We have a country in which everyone simply has the right to exercise their faith or their right of association or their freedom of expression as they wish. If, as in the context of the freedom of religion and belief, people voluntarily renounce it, then we must greatly appreciate it. But there is still the principle that everyone in the Netherlands must be fully defended in the freedom to exercise their fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u35	Thank you. Oh no, Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u36	I understand that many people think it is important to go to church and that this comforts in crisis time, as others can find comfort in a beautiful play, meet together in the pub or at a football game or simply hug your grandmother. But in order to defeat the virus, we ask for sacrifices from humans. We ask that you temporarily organise things differently, and there is no reason not to be able to ask the churches. I have followed the whole debate and would like to know from the Minister the following. How are we going to prevent another 600 or more people from seeing each other on a shift next weekend? How is it then maintained when that happens, if we have not been able to prevent it? How is intervention then or not taken? I think clarity is very important, but I have not been able to get that out of this debate so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u37	Mr. Chairman. As far as the first part is concerned, I have indicated that the voluntary willingness expressed by all the domes yesterday in that communiqué is a very important step. I have also said that, of course, in a number of cases, you will have to speak more personally about this. I mean not with every member of the community of faith, but with certain predecessors. I know they're doing their best. I have also said that I am always in favour of making a useful contribution to this. That's the first thing. Then there is the second important point. I really do not feel like getting into some kind of stigmatisation or whatever. I would like to emphasise that. In that context, I say that we really are a community or a country in which we ultimately resolve this sort of thing with each other. There should be no need to think about how to intervene. I'm really convinced we're gonna get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u38	Thank you very much.
