ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u1	The debate is now on the budget for Social Affairs and Employment: 35570-XV, adoption of the fiscal statements of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment for the year 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Minister Koolmees has indicated that he wants to use the rules of the new pension contract for the bridging period, the so-called growth path, to the moment of transition, which must be gradual. I have asked a number of questions on this subject which have also been taken over by the CDA Group. In his reply this morning, the Minister writes: "Easily, the funds fail to deliver on promised pensions with a high degree of security in the current system." Here the Minister uses the term "high degree of security." In the past, it has always been a question of guarantees, of unconditional commitments, of an obligation to make a profit, as the President of De Nederlandsche Bank says. I see a nuance in the term 'high degree of certainty' which is not insignificant, because the whole financial review framework is built on the false assumption that there would be a guarantee: therefore a risk-free interest rate as discount rate and therefore large buffers. If that guarantee is no longer available, why then stick to these strict standards while IORP I and II consider prudently expected returns as discount rates to be sufficient for the greatest possible certainty? In the same letter this morning, the Minister insists on the principles of the financial review framework when it comes to the distribution of assets. Many disagree. That would make the accidental interest rate of the moment decisive for the distribution. 80-plussers have built their pension assets in years with high returns. In the new system, these returns should be available to them in the building up of personal assets. But the distribution of the assets that have been built up in the past must suddenly be subject to different standards. For example, young people start with a relatively large pot, which they owe to the investment and return of older people. That's not supposed to happen, is it? In that case, pensioners will have the bad luck of having to sail at a time when interest rates are dominated by the interventions of the European Central Bank, an exceptional time with exceptionally low interest rates, whereas the actual yields achieved were much higher and are: on average about 7%, for 30 years. You can't explain entering the lowest interest rate, can you? I'd like an answer from the Minister. It's only been a few weeks until January 1st. No one knows what it looks like as of 1 January 2021. The Volkskrant contained an article on the agreement that would have been reached between the Minister and the social partners on the financial review framework during the transition period, the period described by the Minister as a growth path. Is it what the Volkskrant says? Can the Minister give details of this agreement? Is it true that a coverage rate of more than 100% partial and above 105% can be fully indexed? Is it true that the minimum required coverage is now set at 95% for the transition period? Is it true that there is no need to cut between 90% and 95% but to make a recovery plan? Discounts are only below 90%. Are the large pension funds, thus ABP, Pension Fund Zorg en Welzijn, Pension Fund Metal PME and Pension Fund Metal PMT, out of concern? I have always had the impression that during the transition the Minister would apply the rules of the new contract. Does that not mean that expected returns would be anticipated? I understand from reports in Het Financieele Dagblad that the Minister is asking a committee to look again at the calculation rate to be applied during the transition period. It would then be the opinions of the Dijsselbloem Commission on the Ultimate Forward Rate, UFR. Can the Minister confirm this? It seems logical to me that the rate of calculation should not be reduced in a transition to a new system in which that rate of calculation no longer plays any role. Is it possible for the Minister to ask the same committee to look again at the parameters of the Dijsselbloem Commission and, in particular, at inflation, which was set by this committee at 1.9% for five years, while a much lower figure, for example 1.3%, is much more reasonable? This could give some relief to the workers' contribution in the coming years. In a letter of 10 December, the VCP trade union called on the House of Representatives to "a fixed interest rate of 2%, which gives rest to pensioners and pensioners and the sector." This is in line with the 50PLUS initiative proposal, which went to the Council of State last week, with a proposal for an interest rate of 2% during the transition period. I'd like a detailed response from the Minister. Is there any more clarity on the way in? Can the Minister respond in detail to the further advice of Professor Van Meerten of 13 November to the House of Representatives? I quote his three questions. "It is really the question whether boarding takes the EU test," "There is a good chance that the great obligation will disappear" and "The EU Charter allows funds and social partners to be held directly liable, unlike the ECHR, the Convention on Human Rights." Is the Minister prepared to carry out an EU test on entry and on the major obligation? What does the Minister think of the views of, among other things, the dome of pensioners, of which I was the chairman, but which has long since ceased to exist, that imbalances should be restored from the past in the context of the allocation of individual assets? In recent years power has flowed from old to young due to the low premiums and the low calculation efficiency. That should be restored. Is it true that during the transition phase the Minister wants to distinguish between pension funds that do and pension funds that do not opt for the new system? The adaptation of the current ftk transition framework is only for the funds that intend to move to the new system with the current pension entitlements and entitlements. How can it be justified that funds which do not intend to do so continue to benefit from the existing FTC, with large reductions and premium increases? The Minister writes: if pension reductions are not necessary in view of the new system, they do not need to be implemented now. Why does that not apply to all funds? There are a few questions that relate to the elaboration of the new contract. How does the Minister see the return on protection? The dome of pensioners in a position paper of 29 October for the round table in the Lower House under point 1 of improvement points and questions pointed to the ambiguity of the concept of "protection efficiency." This return is crucial for the allocation of all age cohorts, including for pensioners. Isn't this the risk-free interest rate, the Rts, coming around the corner again? Is the Minister aware that lifecycle investment strengthens the need to increase the premium? It is good that high rates of return can be achieved for young people while older people have to do it with low returns, but the Minister also knows that young people's abilities are still relatively low and those of older people are high. You are now making a high return on these high assets, and that is needed to have sufficient capital for the promised benefit. What does the Minister think of the dome of pensioners? This indicates that "if, for example, 65% fixed-rate values (based on an RTS, running to or below 0%) and 35% business values are chosen, it is almost impossible to achieve a rate of return that can be indexed, even though this is also the intention of the pension agreement for pensioners. An investment mix that leads to non-indexation for pensioners cannot be the intention." What does the Minister think of some objections to KBO-Brabant's pension agreement as mentioned under ad 2 in the position paper of 20 October? Can the Minister elaborate on the following objections? One. Entrance risks leading to massive expropriation at the expense of older participants and pensioners. If there is to be a new system of personal assets, the funds invested by pension funds must be distributed among members, sleepers and pensioners on the basis of the contributions paid and the return they have made. Two. KBO-Brabant has serious objections to imposing any kind of lifecycle investment. Lifecycle investment leads to the calculation of a relatively low return on the under-capacity of older people and pensioners according to the standard transition path, which would result in either hopeless or marginal indexation. Mr. Chairman. The final question by KBO-Brabant points out that the limitation of individual objections to the introduction of new contracts by KBO-Brabant is categorically rejected. Mr. Chairman. I wish the Minister and through the Minister the whole cabinet wisdom and strength in these times of corona. I await the Minister's answers with extraordinary interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I call Mr Kox on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before saying yes to the current Social Affairs and Employment budget and thereby authorising the Minister to take action and spend almost EUR 100 billion in 2021, I would like to put three more issues to the Minister on behalf of the SP Group, so that we know what we are saying yes to. Although, that remains vague in general as we are still in the midst of an unprecedented pandemic with far-reaching consequences not only for health and our health system, but also for society as such and in particular the economic activity, the work of millions of Dutch people and the uncertainty about the income of many of them. In doing so, the greatest burden, as I have said in my general comments on the rich budget, will be borne again by the people who have already been the least affected in our society. The division in society is predicted by national planning agencies to increase in 2021 as a result of the corona crisis, even though almost every party now seems ideologically convinced that increasing division is bad for the people, for society and for the economic development of our country. Mr. Chairman. My first question concerns the government's assessment of the impact of the pandemic in the last quarter of this year, and perhaps also in the coming month for the 2021 budget, in particular for our country's activity in that year, employment and the income positions of, in particular,zzp'ers. Mr. Chairman. The initial scale of the emergency measures taken by the cabinet to keep companies as much as possible on board, as well as the payment of wages to employees whose company is experiencing a major fall in activity due to the pandemic, if I have understood the Minister correctly. Until how long, I'm gonna ask the Minister just to be clear. Does the Minister expect to need additional policies next year now, it seems, tonight, a hard lockdown will come into force that will immediately affect a large number of companies, their employees and perhaps their incomes? How many companies have so far applied for NOW, I ask the Minister. The retreat caused me a great deal of concern. Has there been an increase in the number of applications in recent weeks? Mr. Chairman. Zzp'ers keep their right to a Tozo benefit. We agreed that before, but that is still under the restrictive clause of the partner test. I have argued that this is unfair before, but the Minister insists that he is acting in accordance with the Participation Act. We can't figure that out right now. Now, however, he did come up with a supplementary benefit which provides a lot of money to the municipalities as special assistance, to help people who, among other things, have become victims of the partner test in the Tozo. Can the Minister explain whether he thinks that this measure will, on balance, give people enough space to keep their heads above water? And is he not afraid that the customization required by special assistance will increase the pressure on municipalities? Weren't they busy enough already? After all, would it not have been wiser not to delete the partner test in the Tozo for the time being, and to keep tens of thousands ofzzp'ers who are now refusing to apply for Tozo in that scheme? I'd like an answer to that. And here too, we see an increase in the figures in recent weeks when it comes to applications. Can the Minister tell us anything more about that? My second question concerns the poverty policy to be pursued in corona time next year by the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. Following the adoption of various motions in the past by this Chamber asking for a quantitative policy objective on the structural reduction of child poverty, the government was finally prepared to accept this request from this Chamber this year. In 2030, it is now clear that, according to the government, child poverty should be at least halved. And periodically the government will inform both Chambers of the results achieved. This year, the government will be responsible for the policy for the first time and will be able to assess whether that policy is in line with the quantitative objectives set and whether, and if so how, it should be adjusted or given extra gas. I ask the Minister to confirm that the agreed quantitative reduction target is still in place and will not be allowed to fall into the general malaise caused by the pandemic. The hundreds of thousands of children we have now agreed to alleviate their fate by means of this Chamber must not become the child of the corona account. I assume that the Minister and his Secretary of State will agree entirely with me and this Chamber. My third question concerns the elderly: pensioners and those who are about to retire. They were previously offered substantial pension reductions, but now it appears that there is a danger of the job. Let me get this straight. Will the Minister state that explicitly so that beneficiaries know where they stand and what pension they can expect in 2021? In other words, Mr Minister, can you say again explicitly: in 2021, pensions will not be reduced? Finally, on those who are about to retire, especially early retirement. When the government concluded its pension agreement with employers and trade unions earlier this year, it was assumed that the early retirement scheme would be regulated by law by the end of the year. Until last week, this has proved to be the case, but our Committee on Social Affairs and Employment has now proposed that the plenary session be postponed until after Christmas. I very much regret that, because there are a lot of people who would be entitled to early retirement on the basis of collective agreements concluded by 1 January, provided that the necessary legislative amendment would be made. So that is not at all a nice Christmas deity to people who have worked hard for decades and were ready to get out of work. I know that the Minister has incorporated retroactive force into his draft law on the RVU, but I do not think it is appropriate to use it because government and parliament have not ensured that there has been a timely decision-making process; a decision on which, as far as I can see, there is broad agreement in both chambers. It is not a subject of any kind; I assume that this bill will be adopted unanimously in January, as was the case in the House of Representatives. Can I therefore ask the Minister to make an explicit commitment to reassure those people who are now getting a cold Christmas party from Parliament, that people who would normally be entitled to early retirement benefit from 1 January cannot fall victim to the lack of decisiveness of government and parliament to achieve timely legislation? I think that's the least we can do. Mr President, concluding. This budget of nearly 100 billion is the largest ever. That's a record, but I don't know if the Minister is proud of it. At the same time, it is the most uncertain budget ever, and it will be a long time before we have a clear account for 2021. Nevertheless, my party has so far supported with some other parties the unprecedented expenditure that the government considers necessary to combat the effects of the pandemic on the economy, employment and income, for the simple reason that it is necessary. There's a lot to be said about parties sometimes. That is why my group also supports this budget, assuming that the Minister's answers to my questions will be satisfactory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mr. Kox. Mr Crone on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. Mr Kox said a few sentences ago that the early retirement of the RVU might not happen in time, but the Minister said in the reply that the law can be dealt with in January and will apply retroactively. So what's wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u8	From the bureaucratic reasoning of parliament and government there is nothing wrong, it is retroactive. But I'm also trying to see it from the position of those 1,000, 1,200 people who would retire early on 1 January. Last week, I was visiting one of my brother-in-law, who spent his whole life as an electrician on the lts and Worktrack, and spent the last many years in a hospital working as an electrician. That man was so angry that he was forced to work a year and four months longer than they promised him. I'm congratulating him now, because the day after tomorrow he's retiring. Those 1,000, 1,200 people we have promised to get out on 1 January, but we as Parliament and the government also bear its responsibilities................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I think that's inappropriate, and we should have solved it. That's because this bill connects three things. We don't like that in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u9	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u10	From the point of view of parliamentary rules, there is nothing wrong with it, but from the point of view of the people involved, it is a great disgrace.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u11	I would like to congratulate him, because he was born on August 10th.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u12	August 15th.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u13	No, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u14	Then he turned 66. I know this age group well, because I retired three weeks ago myself. I'm very sorry for this age group. But the serious answer is of course: the Lower House has accepted this Chamberwide, in the Upper Chamber there are all kinds of questions, but not about this, at most about the execution system. So nothing goes wrong, you should have reassured him as a birthday present. Why are you causing unrest? I will ask the Minister in writing tomorrow to issue a press release. The RVU will probably enter if the Chamber so wishes, and even the tax addition we will arrange. I can see the Minister nodding, but I hope he will repeat this again in his first term. I urge you not to cause any unrest where you don't have to. May I ask you that?]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u15	My brother-in-law's just retiring, so he doesn't have to be restless. He's been that way before because of this shit. These are people we have promised, and I think that Parliament should say to the people'sorry, we cannot get this law ready in time, because there are great differences of opinion'. Now it's a bureaucratic reason. We agreed we'd have this law done by Christmas, and we could have. But for our magical reasons that aren't the reasons of those 1,000, 1,200 people, we're talking about Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u16	Mr. Kox...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u17	Of course, the Minister will promise that no major accident will happen, but we should not have done this to people who have not had a great deal of confidence in the promise of government and parliament about pensions in recent years; that would not have been necessary. But I'm counting on the Minister to say that reassurance again. It shouldn't have been necessary, but that's better than nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u18	Thank you. Mr. Crone, your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u19	I'm very sorry. These are false words. I don't like to use the word "false." You could have reassured that gentleman on the basis of what I just said. I'd be happy to ask you for the address. I'll send him a postcard. There's nothing wrong with his RVU. You are creating distrust in politics when you call this bureaucracy. Careful legislation is never bureaucracy. How many times have I heard you say 'this is not well prepared; bad cabinet'? I'm going to distance myself from this, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u21	Last week, in the Committee on Social Affairs, we agreed that we would move the law over for a week and deal with it before Christmas. I can all justify changing that agreement, but I do not understand why we are going to make it so difficult again for people we have given a right. There's no need to send a card. Parliament must ensure that legislation is put in place in good time. Timely legislation is also decent legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u22	I listened with interest to Mr Kox's speech. The hardworking Dutchman is a group that is also close to the heart of D66. We're talking about people in construction, but we're also talking about nurses. They often started at a very young age: 17 years and 7 months as a nurse. There is a link between the RVU and the grant scheme sustainable employability and early retirement. Mr Kox asks what it means that the debate is unfortunately at the beginning of next year and what that means for the RVU. Is he also curious what this means for the link with the subsidy scheme? 'Cause that's connected to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u23	I hope it doesn't mean anything. I hope that the Minister can promise us that and say that if the government and Parliament had just put a little bit of effort into it, we would have settled this in time and there would have been no such problems. Once again: everything will be fine, but if there is unrest, we will cause it as a parliament and government. That would not have been necessary in an issue on which we all agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u24	Then we await the Minister's answer on this coherence. I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u25	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? Five minutes? Then I'll suspend until 4:32 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u26	I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the questions. Mr Van Rooijen has asked many questions about pensions. Before I answer a few elements, I would also like to respond procedurally. As you may know or have read in the newspaper, I am currently in consultation with social partners on the transition-fk, but also on consultation legislation for the new pension system. My plan is to open up the draft document for consultation this week, so that social partners can participate in that bill for eight weeks. It's a 180-page explanatory memorandum. It has become a very large legislative proposal with everything in it, including the transition ftk, the governance structure, the boarding, the European legal objections, the whole discussion about how we go from the current to the new system and the valuation, i.e. the value-based method and the standard method. All the elements, some of which have already become known in the main note of July of this year, have now been worked out in a concrete legislative proposal with a concrete statement of explanation and justification. So it's coming soon. In the new year, I would like to come to this Chamber to discuss it extensively, because it is a very large legislative proposal. There are very important aspects, both economic and legal. An economic aspect is the valuation and a legal aspect is the European legal feasibility, both of the obligation and of the entry of assets into the new system. I would like to come back to that in the new year, when it is public and the consultation phase has been completed, so that I also know how social partners have responded to that large legislative proposal. Having said that, I come to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u28	I suppose I will get an answer to a number of questions after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u29	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u30	The minister isn't ready yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u31	No, that's what I'm assuming. Can the Minister clarify something? I am not speaking on behalf of the House of Representatives, but we all know that Thursday evening the House of Representatives is going to recess and then an AO has planned on the pension agreement, the consultation draft, the transition document that goes with it and so on. Is that gonna come in time for the House of Representatives to deal with it? If so, I wonder why it couldn't have been known today. In other words, did you not reach agreement with the social partners last week? Do we have to do it tomorrow or the day after tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u32	Tonight, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u33	Tonight? Look.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u34	I'm in agreement with the social partners. It's a very complicated bill. I think we've worked that out in good harmony over the last few months. Very constructive work has been done by the trade unions, employers, the Pension Federation, DNB, AFM, Finance and SZW. There's been a lot of hard work. That resulted in that concept memoir of 180-page explanatory notes. Indeed, there is also the transition ftk in that. The question is: what are we doing on 31 December of this year? So that's the short term. Of course, we are also in the current ftk legislative environment. What we now need legislation is, of course, the financial review framework. From 1 January next year we have a kind of transition framework to 1 January 2026, because 1 January 2026 is the intended time of entry into the new system. We have a meeting on that. That is incredibly technical, because it is about coverage levels and, as you have already read in the newspaper, target coverage levels. I'm not going to confirm that that's true, but that word looks familiar to me. That's part of the whole system. The third step is to value the current claim to the pension fund in a pension asset attributable to an individual. That has three phases. Because it is very technical and very complicated, we are still in consultation, but that consultation is so constructive that I have a great deal of confidence in it that we can come to terms with it. But there's still a lot to be done. Let that be clear, too. It is, of course, incredibly complex issues and legislation. The consultation document is now almost ready. Then we are going to get input from pension experts and stakeholders, including pensioners, for example. I spoke to him just before this meeting. I also spoke to Mr Van Rooijen's elderly organisation. Then we go on with that and come here to submit it after we have been to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u35	So we'll wait and see what comes out tonight. I assume that the House of Representatives will be able to debate that, but that aside. The Minister said about the situation at the end of this year, i.e. at 31 December, that the reductions or non-reductions for next year are part of the whole. Do I understand correctly that the Minister, before 31 December, but preferably before Christmas, makes it clear to millions of pensioners at ABP and Health and Welfare that there will be no discounts next year and that it will not be necessary to wait for a letter from Wednesday, in which this is not quite clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u36	As you say, I have a general meeting in the Lower House on Thursday. I am still in consultation with the social partners on the overall complex. The most recent moment is December 31st of this year. Last summer we agreed on the 90% limit; Mr Van Rooijen himself referred to it. There is no need to reduce the level of coverage of the pension fund above 90%. Last month a number of large funds came underneath, as a result of falling interest rates. This week, I think, is the fifteenth; that is tomorrow, a number of large funds are coming up with the coverage levels of November. However, the picture is that there is a recovery in coverage levels, for example as a result of news about vaccines. So the line will probably be that 90% is the border. If you're under there, you have to cut back to 90%. In this Chamber and in the House of Representatives I keep saying that I cannot guarantee that there will never be any cuts. There may be all kinds of circumstances, which mean that at the end of the year stock exchange prices are moving in the opposite direction. So I can't give that guarantee in advance. However, the fact that I said this summer that there is no need to reduce back to a coverage rate of 104.3% of own funds, which is the minimum required in the ftk rules, but to 90%, means that reductions are to a large extent avoided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u37	Mr Van Rooijen, your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u38	Why should you not, in these harsh times, be able to promise to all those millions of pensioners and participants working in health care and in the public sector that there will be no cuts in any way? I would also point out that last week the Labour and GroenLinks Party, which co-signed the pension agreement, made a compelling appeal to you to come forward with a general pardon. In other words, they ask that, apart from the rules, which are apparently not so great, you should take your hand over your heart and at least not allow discounts for those million people in care and government. 31 December of course remains a kind of casino day: no one knows what happens to the Brexit and the stock exchanges on 30 December. Would that determine whether or not the pensions of those millions of people are being cut?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u39	I think I have a responsibility to all generations in the pension fund. That is also what I said in the House of Representatives when presenting the pension agreement. Young people must also be protected from the fall of stock exchange prices and thus from the decline of the levels of cover. The first step was that we concluded a pension agreement with each other. We're going to a new system. With the look of the new system, I look back at the intervening years. If we had complied with the current system, rules and law, we would have had to cut back to 104.3% next year. We don't. The level of coverage thus differs by 14.3 percentage points. That's a hell of a lot. I think this is fair from the thought that we are on the way to a new system and that there are now very special economic conditions due to the corona crisis. That is without prejudice to the fact that I can never say that there will never be any cuts. The situation on the financial markets can now be one time that stock market prices fall, for whatever reason. I also think it is important for the government to stand up for the interests of all those involved, i.e. workers, pensioners, but also young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u40	Thank you. I suggest you continue your response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u41	Mr Van Rooijen has asked many questions. I expect Mr Van Rooijen to attend the interrupting microphone a number of times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u42	I suggest that, given your time, you complete your response first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u43	Okay, I'll keep going and be very brief. Mr Van Rooijen, of course, referred to the ftk, the financial review framework, and the high degree of certainty. Mr Van Rooijen also knows that this has been translated into 97.5% certainty in the legislation, in the ftk. It is therefore not 100% security, but a high level of security, namely 97.5%. This also sets out the nominal framework to provide as much security as possible in order to ensure that pensions are paid. This means that not only the risk-free interest rate and the UFR are included, but also the buffers contained in the current system, in order to be able to provide that security. In the current system, funds should actually return to a coverage rate of about 125%-130% before full indexation can occur. We agreed in the pension agreement that we would go into a system in the new system that would no longer build up those buffers. It provides faster returns to the participants, so that they can also be indexed more quickly. That proposal will soon come to you, so that we can have a wide-ranging debate on it at the beginning of the new year. Mr Van Rooijen also said that young people are entering the new system with a large pot of money. That is in itself true, because total pension assets have increased significantly in recent years. We have now saved about EUR 1,800 billion together in the pension pots. That was about 900 billion in 2009. Some of them, of course, have simply to do with the fall in interest rates. If interest rates fall, you have to keep a larger pot of money in reserve in order to deliver a promised pension. That's what happened. If interest rates fall, that does indeed mean that you need to keep more money in hand in order to be able to pay benefits towards the future. This will also be completely different in the new pension system. Much more is to be reckoned with a projection efficiency and returns that can be distributed more quickly to the participants. So you need a few more weeks of patience before we can debate it; you can see the consultation document earlier. Then the underlying pieces are also known and we can also talk about that with each other. As Mr Van Rooijen rightly said, I have previously announced that we should look back on the current situation with the glasses of the new system. If you do not have to shorten the new system, my suggestion is that you do not have to do so in the current system. The same applies to the premium. If you do not have to increase the premium in the new system, you should not do so in the current system either, because you are going to go to a completely different system, with a contribution framework and investment in return for investments, which ultimately leads to an expected pension payment. Mr Van Rooijen, for example, also says, as the Koepel Pensioners said, that there are imbalances from the past, because, for example, the fall in interest rates has shifted assets from old to young. That is true in itself, but I would like to make a few comments about things that have also taken place in recent years, for example the fact that life expectancy has risen significantly. These are actually years for which no premium has been paid, but which are covered in pension funds. Another example, which Mr Van Rooijen rightly cites, is the level of premium coverage, given that active people, i.e. young people and workers, currently pay €0.60-€0.70 per euro, but receive €1 in pension rights. That's gonna run out of coverage. So that's basically redistribution from old to young. On the other hand, not shorting is normally a measure of 104.3% of coverage, which means redistributing from young to old. For example, there are all kinds of redistribution mechanisms in the current pension scheme which are not all in the same direction. Sometimes it goes from old to young, sometimes from young to old. Mr Van Rooijen is right to say that you have to deal with this in a balanced way. That is precisely part of the puzzle: how do you ensure that you move from the current system to the new system in the coming years in a balanced, transparent and explainable way? Then I am not in favour of turning the buttons, as Mr Van Rooijen seemed to suggest. Mr Van Rooijen knows that too. He referred to the initiative bill of 50PLUS across the street, in the House of Representatives. Two years ago there was such an initiative proposal, at the time by Mr Van Rooijen himself. That proposal was also rejected by the House of Representatives at the time, because a majority found that turning on the interest rate button is actually the intransparent shifting of assets over the participants. I still think so; I think that's a wrong route. However, we have included two methods in the pension agreement, the standard method and the value-based method. The value-based method should establish a so-called P-set and Q-set. That's all technology, which we're going to talk about later. It's about the distribution of the pot when entering. So I'll come back to that later. Finally, the last point is to invest in lifecycle investment. After that, I will refer to the draft legislative proposal in a procedural manner. Funds should determine the risk attitude of the participants. That doesn't mean that old by definition means that you can only invest in bonds. I have already said this to Mr Van Rooijen. That's not the translation of lifecycle investment. What it does mean is this. If you know that you're older and retired and you actually want to have less uncertainty in your benefit phase, you need to build in certain safeguards to prevent you from, for example, being faced with much lower pension benefits if the stock exchanges fall apart. No one wants that either. The combination of more investment in bonds and the spread of shocks in the new system must ensure that the returns can reach pensioners, but that any shocks can also be cushioned. We will soon be able to discuss this in detail. I am already looking forward to it, as you can see, Mr President, because I love pensions, especially when it comes to the technique of pensions. Mr Van Rooijen too, so we are going to have a nice debate. Then I come to Mr Kox's questions... I'll hold on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u44	Any short supplementary question, Mr. Van Rooijen? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u45	I will of course return to some of the answers in the second term, but in particular I missed an answer to the question that the trade union for professionals, the VCP, also put to the House of Representatives last week in a letter dated 10 December. In it, they submit to the Chamber to ask the Cabinet to work with a fixed interest rate of 2% during the transition period as a basis for calculating the obligations. It'll give you peace of mind. I think it's a wonderful word the VCP uses. It gives rest to the workers and pensioners for that transition period. For those six years, just work with a fixed interest rate of 2%. They call it a bottom interest rate. As I said, this is in line with our own initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u46	What is your question, Mr. Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u47	Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u48	I've already responded to that, but I'll do it again. I don't think that's a good idea. For example, the current ten-year Dutch bond rate is -0.5% at the moment. If you put a base of 2% arithmetic interest, that is a large shift of assets between the participants. Actually, the calculation rate button is turned again. I think that's an intransparent way to distribute those abilities. It actually leads to a shift from young to old. I do not consider this to be rationally fair, especially given the current legislation and regulations. That is why the previous initiative proposal of 50PLUS was rejected in the House of Representatives. Then it was about a much smaller movement. And then it was about "I'm saying from my head "0.5% interest rate difference." Now it's about 2.5% interest rate differential. So these generational effects are only going to be much greater in this proposal than they were then. So I don't think that's a wise idea. It undermines solidarity in the funds themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u49	The Minister also did not answer another specific question. I understand from the media that there will be a new committee to look again at the recently issued opinion of the Dijsselbloem 2 Committee on the Ultimate Forward Rate. It would change enormously, in the sense that it would go down much faster. Can the Minister say whether this committee will indeed be there and therefore reconsider the UFR, which would significantly increase the rate of calculation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u50	Unfortunately, I will not be able to say anything about this until soon, because I am still talking about this with, among other things, the social partners and supervisors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u51	Mr. Van Rooijen, third, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u52	My question is whether that committee will be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u53	That's just what I'm saying: I can't say much about that. I am in agreement with the social partners on this. Soon I will come forward with further information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u54	What does the Minister himself think?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u55	If I go into your Chamber and tell you what my bargaining is, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u56	Then I suggest you continue with the answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u57	Mr. Van Rooijen, if you'll be patient, you'll be served at your beck and call. Mr Kox started with three issues. The first is the threatening division due to corona. Unfortunately, I agree with Mr Kox. Look at which groups are now affected and which groups are the first to lose their jobs due to the coronapandemic. It is mainly the flex workers, thezzp'ers and the people with a distance from the labour market who are the first to lose their jobs and stand on the sidelines. What I am optimistic about is the resilience of the Dutch economy, looking at the third quarter of the past year. The economy grew by 7.7% in that third quarter. A lot of people found another job. In fact, unemployment fell again in October. That is, of course, quite special, almost bizarre, when you look at the uncertainty in the economies around us. That gives me hope for the future. In addition, the cabinet has, of course, allocated an enormous amount of money to work-to-work paths, from pay-to-work paths, through training, through guidance by social partners, through the UWV and the municipal offices. From 1 December onwards, we started to do so in three regions. People can be helped from a sector where jobs are lost to a sector where there are still shortages. At present, there are still shortages in health, education and technology. People can get jobs there. Mr Kox specifically asked how many companies have applied for NOW. For the NOW 1 it was about 140,000 companies. For the NOW 2 at 65,000 companies. The NOW 3 has so far involved 38,000 companies. In the first phase, many companies in a wide range of sectors have applied for NOW. Now we see that especially the sectors where people meet are affected. Think of the catering, recreation, art and culture, events. These are, of course, the sectors that are now hard hit by the current measures. There is a large part of the companies that have now applied for NOW 3. When it comes to the groups that are at risk of falling between shore and ship, we have often debated the partner test. Among other things, we've been talking to congregations. At the social services desks there were people who, because they have a partner, are not entitled to a Participation Act benefit or to a Tozo benefit, but who did get into trouble with their fixed charges. That's why we came up with the TONK: the Meeting Support Necessary Costs, for which we cleared 130 million last week for the first half of 2021. Municipalities can make a benefit available to residents who are not eligible for a benefit, but who are faced with job losses or who are not called up while they have a call contract and therefore have no income. We think that is a more sensible way than the generic re-introducing of the partner test, because then you are also going to give people benefits that do not actually need that benefit. That is why we have come to this tailor-made solution. We are in good consultation with the municipalities about the implementation of this. Mr Kox is right that it leads to new implementation questions for the municipality. Since the municipalities asked for this, because they saw that otherwise people would really get into trouble, we are convinced that we will get out of this together. As from 1 February next year, this should be possible at the social services offices where people are now simply reporting. Mr Kox's second question was about the poverty target. I know that Mr Kox has had a number of debates with Tamara van Ark, the former Secretary of State. The new Secretary of State, Van 't Wout, has taken over this and that poverty target remains. The third question was about pensioners and about shortening. Fortunately, stock exchange prices have recovered in recent weeks as a result of the news about the vaccines. Our picture is over the course of this week we will know in more detail that the larger funds are again above 90%. We'll just have to wait and see. I have answered the rest of the questions in the direction of Mr Van Rooijen. Finally. I understand very well what Mr Kox said about this RVU, the bill on which there was an interruption debate between Mr Crone and Mr Kox. You cannot ask me to move into your procedures. You had a procedural meeting today, I understand, in which you decided to deal with it on 12 January. I think that is very good: it is the first possible moment in the new year. It is my view that there is a very broad support for the RVU measure and for the billion that we have allocated as a cabinet to support employers in early retirement, especially in the case of vulnerable or heavy-duty professions. I intend to send a note to the House of Representatives tomorrow, in which I also deal with this issue, both that of the billion, the subsidy scheme for early retirement, and that of the RVU. In doing so, I will try to prevent any uncertainty from arising among the participants. But I agree with Mr Crone that I really do expect that I am a little ahead of your votes, and I think that is dangerously dangerous because there is broad support for it. I have seen in the written procedure that there is a great deal of support for the RVU issues in particular. We still have to have a debate on the amount at once and its implementation, but I am convinced that we need to be able to get out of it. So I would like to offer that assurance by way of a note tomorrow, and I would, of course, like to send you a copy of that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u58	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen. The clock is running, Mr. Van Rooijen. You may begin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u59	But the minister is still...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u60	You have the Minister's full attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u61	Maybe we can start now. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the answers. I am pleased that he has promised that we will be able to have an oral discussion with him very soon, at the beginning of the year. I take note of that. Is that a commitment, I ask the Minister. But we'll find out soon enough. The Minister said that it is true that pension cuts should not take place now if they are unnecessary under the new system. I am glad that he has made that clear again, but I assume that if there is a return on protection in the new system, I can accept it; the Minister can respond to it, at least 1.5%, if not a little more. It is not surprising that in the transition period it is at least that protection efficiency of at least 1.5%, let us say: the protection efficiency! In the next six years, it will be possible to use it in advance. Mr. Chairman. I adapted my speech to the answers given by the Minister at the end of the morning, because in the letter he indicates that there is a great deal of certainty. I told you, that's something other than a guarantee. The guarantee was the basis for the risk-free interest rate and also for the buffers. But if the Minister acknowledged with me that there is no guarantee, then there is no reason to take into account risk-free interest rates and so you should take into account the return, which, fortunately, is going to happen in the new system. Mr. Chairman. Another notable point in this morning's letter is that the current ftk, the current financial review framework, I always call it "the financial future broken" with the risk-free accounting rate of today -0.5% at yields of 7%, will soon also be used in the distribution of capital. Just before the start of the new system, the existing capital will be converted and that will be done with risk-free interest rates and that means that you will be allocated a much lower capital value than with another calculation rate. That much lower power, that down converted power, is the basis with which you enter the new system and that is because of the lifecycle and such no indexation again. It's called non-indexation under the new system. I'm gonna ask you again, Mr. Chairman. It can't be that when entering the ship the chance and, let's assume, still very low calculation rate, at least not positive, is used to determine the starting power? I would like to hear that from the Minister again. The Minister has acknowledged with me that I welcome the fact that the fall in the interest rate of calculation, of risk-free interest rates, from when we started 5% to now below 0%, has led to a huge redistribution within the collective pot. At my request, Mercer calculated three years ago that this was 7% at the time, from 39% to 32%. I think it's more like 10% now than 7%. My question to the Minister is whether it is not right to charge not with that risk-free interest rate, but with a higher interest rate. If you go from 5% to 0%, isn't it weird to go from 0% to 1.5% or 2%? 5% down would seem to be acceptable, but a slight adjustment of that fall upwards would be "a redistribution to the detriment of young people," whereas it was 10% to the detriment of the elderly. Finally, Mr President. I think it's "turning the interest rate button" what VCP would do. What we do with the initiative-law design Van Rooijen I and now with the initiative-Van Brenk in the Lower House, is of course not turning buttons. It is recognised that it is very strange in the last 30 years for 7% yields that we now, including the ECB, have a 0% or negative interest rate for savers. For the calculation of liabilities for the next 60 years, we also charge a -0.5%, while 2% would be somewhat cautious. Finally, I would like to encourage the Minister to do what will rest for 10 million workers and also for pensioners in the near future. Hence the next motion. The: Mr Van Rooijen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the new contract no longer includes claims and risk-free interest rates;]] [[Whereas it is desirable not to introduce unnecessary reductions during the transition period due to the pinching current ftk;]] [[Whereas there are major concerns in the transition period about threatening discounts for many pension participants and pensioners;]] [[calls on the government to use a fixed rate of 2% until the actual transition in 2026, so that the valuation of the liabilities is more in line with the actual return and the retirement and retirement sectors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XV-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his response to the issues I raised in the first term. He agrees with me, we agree with each other, and we agree with our planning agencies that it is one of the most cynical consequences of corona that the division in society is increasing, that the people who have not hit it at all will now be hit hardest again. There is nothing we can do about this at the moment, but I think it is a task for all of us to see how, on the basis of experience, we can, on the basis of the predictions of our planning agencies, pursue additional policies to prevent that, because that would be the most painful thing. That is not easy, but the planning agencies have also indicated in which directions and in what ways we could do something about it. Once again, that is not something we are resolving here today, but it is something that will be the one who will then be Minister of Social Affairs on his or her plate throughout the coming year. The Minister indicates how the NOW has developed. I understand the numbers, but from 140,000 to 38,000 is a massive relapse. That's gonna have to come up at some point. That's what I'm afraid of. Does that mean that companies decide to deal with their declining production and activity in a different way? I assume that, should it be announced tonight that non-essential shops, amusement parks and so on will all close, a huge group of companies, large but especially small ones, will make extra use of the scheme. I can only assume that the government already has figures in order to know how many companies they are going to be involved in. I think that a lot of small self-employed people who have to close from tomorrow will be knocking on the counters. The same applies to larger companies. Maybe the Minister can say a little more about that. It's all complicated, because the Prime Minister has something to say, but I'm also watching the news these days, so I know what's going to be said tonight. The Minister knows that much better than I do. With regard to the Tozo, the Minister says: "We still hold on to the partner test. Through the TONK we're going to give 130 million to the municipalities. The municipalities themselves have asked for this and I assume that it will be all right." Well, we'll see. This could work, but I would like to ask the Minister to keep his finger on the wrist here. At a time when, despite the good intentions of the municipalities, it would not work, we must dare to look again. Then we should not say 'we have fixed this for six months', but we should intervene in good time. I said last time: you will be flexible as a ruler or you will not be. With regard to child poverty, I welcome the round undertaking by the Minister that the policy of the previous Secretary of State, which has been agreed with this Chamber, will be continued by this Secretary of State. Sometimes with a short answer you can take away a lot of questions. With regard to the pension reductions, the Minister said: this will be it. I continue to find it very difficult that we are almost on the 31st of the month and that we still do not know for sure how it ends, but we will see. Mr. Chairman. My final comment concerns the RVU. Mr Crone gave the impression that I was creating a panic here on my own. But it is the largest trade union in the Netherlands that says that 1,000 to 1,500 people could be entitled to this early retirement on 1 January. Those are police officers, people in home care and people in construction. These are all people who have worked for 40 years or more and who are waiting for the assurance that they can get out on 1 January. I think it is wrong to say: well, that is explained to those people and eventually they will get what they want. Look, Ferd Crone and Tiny Kox don't even notice they're retired, because we've got the best job in the world now that we're allowed to sit here and hope we can sit here for a long time. But there are a lot of people who also had the best job in the world as electricians, home care workers or police officers. They say after about 45 years, it's over. They're going with RVU. That's gonna cost them money. Nevertheless, they make that choice. I believe that, as a parliament and a government, we should have ensured that we had implemented legislation in good time. That would have been possible, and I regret that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u63	Thank you. Mr Crone has a short question that has not yet been asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u64	I am pleased that Mr Kox's SP is now so enthusiastic about the pension agreement, because this was one of the main reasons why the Labour Party and the GroenLinks supported the pension agreement. The only thing I've revealed is this is gonna be okay. The Minister has just confirmed that in his term. So you are creating unrest instead of telling those people that they can all go to sleep because they're gonna be okay; the FNV will probably do the same from tomorrow, because the Minister is gonna send a letter. Make an agreement in time and perform it properly: that is what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u65	Sure. And one of that proper implementation was that this year the legislation would come into being; that was also the agreement. Again: the FNV warns us about this. The fact that Tiny Kox joins us as a member of the FNV may not be of any significance, but if the union says "we should have agreed to do this," and we could have done it... Parliament may often point to the government and society, but it may also point to itself occasionally and say: we should have done this better. I am pleased that the Minister has promised to send a letter to the Lower House with a copy to the Upper House to make it clear that, even though we have not done our work in time, the 1,000 or 1,500 men and women who are concerned with it from 1 January can claim their early retirement on the basis of collective agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u66	Thank you, Mr. Kox. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am also looking forward to the debates with Mr Van Rooijen on pensions. It's not a promise from me. I'll come to you if you invite me. That will probably happen in a procedural meeting, but I would like to come, because this is an important subject and I really like it. I would like to comment briefly on the calculation rate, the UFR and the RTS and all these elements. There are always two sides to a balance. Mr Van Rooijen knows that too. That's the liability side and the claim side. Both sides are valued with market values in the current system. This means that, on the one hand, the bonds, the shares and the value of the real estate are at market prices, which have risen significantly in recent years as a result of the fall in interest rates. Just think about what happened in the Netherlands, for example, with house prices as a result of the fall in mortgage interest rates. On the other hand, the obligations are reflected in the RTS and the UFR. With the new system, we are indeed moving towards a system in which returns are more decisive. Therefore, if returns are made, they can also be paid out. That is why it is so special that 50PLUS does not support the pension agreement, since returns achieved will actually lead to faster indexation of pensions, which is entirely in line with what Mr Crone said to Mr Kox. And that is actually the same as what I say to Mr Van Rooijen. That's entrapment; I know. I do agree with Mr Van Rooijen that we need to rest in the system in the coming years. We should stop having discussions about discounts at the end of the year every year. The great advantage of the new system is that there is no longer such a level of coverage or such an interest rate in the system, but that it actually, as it were, automatically grows with the developments in the economy, on the stock exchanges and in the bonds. That is much more predictable and much quieter than the current system, in which we constantly, every month, have a discussion about whether or not to cut short. I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u68	And with that, you're at the end of your answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u69	No, Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u70	In view of the time, I suggest that the Minister answer the questions first. Then there's time for another brief interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u71	I say to Mr Kox that the decline in the number of companies is mainly in the sectors, as I have just said. Where in the first phase many sectors have applied, it is now a much smaller number, namely catering, recreation and art and culture. I can't speculate about what the future brings us, but the NOW is breathing with the developments. So if other sectors want to appeal to it, then so be it. I'm not gonna tell you anything, but I'm gonna explain to you that the system is the same. Finally. We are indeed keeping our finger on the pulse with regard to the TONK: does it end up with that group that needs it the most? That is also what I said in the House of Representatives during the monitoring arrangements. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u72	Thank you, Minister. Then it's time for a few more short questions. Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u73	If it's all right with you, I'll respond to the Minister's entrapment. For the sake of clarity, the 50PLUS election programme, which was adopted on Saturday, states that there should be no reduction in the next four years and that indexation and a catch-up index should be provided. Those are exactly the three points I have been advocating for years, and so have my party. In other words, these are the goals that we want to achieve. We have also indicated that, of course, the new Parliamentary Group is in favour of this, because it is part of the programme. But those objectives cannot be achieved in the pension agreement. The pension agreement...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u74	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u75	... doesn't deliver, because the new system doesn't start until after. Finally, I have the following question to the Minister, following what he has just said about the interest rate. If the capital has been built up from 700 billion to 1,700 billion over the last ten years and also over the last ten years with that low interest rate...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u76	A brief question, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u77	... isn't it weird that in the case of high returns in the allocation into the new system, you have to charge zero interest? So high yields and high power are created, and that is ignored when entering because a zero efficiency is counted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u78	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. First the Minister and then Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u79	It really goes too far to deal with the whole standard method of entry and valuation of claims to assets. Let's do that in terms of draft legislation. Then we can talk about it in all the details, including in technology.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u80	Mr Kox has the floor for one more question. I'm afraid I don't have time for any more questions. Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u81	I'm only doing this because the minister said that's entrapment. It's hard to play billiards through the band. Through three bands of billiards, namely Crone, Van Rooijen and Kox, is completely difficult. I would really like to say that I am a parliamentarians. I represent a parliamentary party here and there will be legislation. Whatever I thought of that or whatever my party thought of it, if that legislation is there, then that legislation is here today. Then, like all the other 74 members of this house, I am entitled to ask the Minister: you would come up with this bill, but it is not there yet, what do we do with it? Objections to me that I was not initially in favour of that arrangement...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u82	Your question is clear, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u83	...is really through the band and totally wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u84	If I have given that impression, that was absolutely not the intention. In fact, I know that the SP is a strong supporter of the regulation on heavy-duty professions. I was just challenging Mr Van Rooijen a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u85	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u86	I come to the budget. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u87	Anybody want a note? Nor is that the case. I propose that we vote on the motion before us tomorrow at the end of the sitting. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments in anticipation of the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
