ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the adoption of the trade agreement between Canada and the European Union and on the strategic partnership.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u2	We are almost ready for the second term on the part of the government, but I will first give Mrs Diks the floor because she wants to amend another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u3	(NL) Mr President, I would like the motion in part No. 10 would like to change on two points, namely the following. In the observation that the import tariffs on fossil fuels are abolished in CETA, I would like to add "products of" for "fossil fuels." In the request that "the government should commit itself to ensuring that trade agreements in which the EU is a partner do not contain a reduction in import tariffs on fossil fuels," I would add "on fossil fuel products... '. Let's see. The trade agreements in which the EU is a partner, reduction of.... Well, I'm sorry. I'm having less lunch, it turns out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u4	No, you need to read it to me more slowly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u5	All I had was a salmon sandwich for clarity. The request is as follows: calls on the Government to work to ensure that trade agreements in which the EU is a partner do not include a reduction in import tariffs on fossil fuel products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u6	The motion Diks c.s. (, No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that CETA abolishes import tariffs on fossil fuel products such as oil;]] [[Whereas it is important that trade policy serves the purpose of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and promoting energy transition, in line with the international agreements that exist to that end, such as the Paris Climate Agreement;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that trade agreements in which the EU is a partner do not include a reduction in import tariffs on fossil fuel products,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 10 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to Members of Parliament for their input, questions, critical comments and suggestions. We can take them with us to the EU and, of course, to the conversation with Canada. Let me ask you a few questions first. Mr Alkaya has asked whether, under CETA, a claim can only be lodged by a company on the basis of expropriation. The answer is as follows. Under the investment provisions under CETA, an investor is protected against 1. aperate, unreasonable, unfair treatment, 2. discriminatory treatment, 3. unlawful expropriation or expropriation which is not in the public interest (administrative process, due process, non-discriminatory and without appropriate compensation) and 4. restrictions on the free transfer of money. However, public authorities are entitled to regulate in order to ensure financial monetary stability. An investor can only invoke this protection for the ICS if there is a breach of these grounds and the investor suffers damage and therefore not because losses are incurred. That is no different from Dutch law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you for this clear answer. Does the Minister consider that yesterday the D66 Group was telling ghost stories?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u9	No, because I believe that in the very long over-and-again between Mr Jetten and members of the Chamber, on the basis of the interruptions, Mr Jetten indicated: on the basis of, among other things, expropriation. In my memory, he didn't say anything, and I don't think it was meant to be just expropriation. To be honest, I find it not so interesting either; as a government, we have clearly described what is and what is not possible and how it works. Beyond that, it's additional. My understanding of Mr Jetten's input was that it was an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u10	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u11	Mrs Diks asked whether the Netherlands could make a reservation on the ICS in relation to Article 19 of the Vienna Convention. In line with Article 19 of the Vienna Convention, it is stipulated that certain reservations can be made in CETA. A reservation on the ICS does not belong to that. Such a reservation is therefore not permitted under the law of the Treaties. ICS is an essential core component. Therefore, the Trade Agreement with ICS is part of the Convention as a whole, and for that reason, contracting parties do not have the possibility of a reservation. So that wasn't recorded. Such a reservation is not permitted in breach of the object and purpose of the Convention and therefore under the law of the Treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u12	Thank you to the Minister for trying to figure this out so quickly, but I still have doubts. So I would like to ask the Minister if she would perhaps confirm this in writing before Tuesday, because it is precisely the sentence that would be contrary to the purpose of the Treaty. In my view, you can really dispute whether the ICS as such should be part of the Convention in that sense in order to allow the commercial part to enter into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u13	This is negotiated. There is one treaty. There is one package and two legs. It's part of the plan, and this is the intention. It's been thought through. Since I will share some information with the Chamber, I can add this in writing, but the answer will, I hope, remain the same, otherwise I would have shared the wrong information. A number of questions have been asked about foodwatch, MRL and the Committee. I also refer to Mrs Van Weerdenburg's amendment, which I said I would reaffirm. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen asked me to take note of what foodwatch says and to return to it in the second term. First of all, I would like to recall the mandate of the SPS Committee. Article 5.14 of CETA clearly defines the mandate for the work of the SPS Committee. The Committee may discuss possibilities for bilateral contact and exchange of information, which may discuss its SPS measures and proposed changes in the countries, and discuss initiatives in the field of SPS. It is important to keep together the committee's power to amend for technical implementation. We have already discussed this in detail. The Committee does not have the power to amend EU legislation. Nor does it affect the development of European legislation. The Committee, as discussed in detail, is a platform for dialogue on plant health barriers to trade. Canada can do this. What's the discussion about? We know that foodwatch uses documents belonging to the Canadian government. They got it on the basis of a WOB request. In these documents, the Canadian government itself, the negotiators, writes what the commitment will be and what results one would ideally like to achieve in that committee. It is a Canadian view, including on the commitment of the committee. Again, it's a Canadian view. I cannot imagine an EU representative on the committee taking the view that the EU is abandoning the precautionary principle. That is not possible either, because this is precisely what is laid down in the EU Treaty. The Commission cannot amend the EU Treaty, as indicated above. It is covered by Article 191 (2). What I will do, as I said earlier, is to urge the Commission once again that all the committees should be clear to the negotiators, the representatives, that there should be no room for even discussing or discussing the precautionary principle. Then there is Mrs Ouwehand's question about the European Parliament voting down a proposed modification of MRLs. MRLs are set out in Regulation 369/2005, which falls under my colleague from Health. Nor can the SPS Committee adjust an MRL. This can only be done through the regulation, through the European Parliament and through the Council, which has the last word. If they object, a Regulation cannot be adopted. Mrs Ouwehand has previously asked questions about a MRL of clothianidin in potatoes. The Commission proposed raising the MRL at the time. This has only been done on the basis of advice from EFSA, the European Food Safety Agency. This had indicated that there were no public health implications. But the European Parliament voted against. This builds on the reconfirmation I will give Mrs Van Weerdenburg on involving the European Parliament. What can the European Parliament do against decisions taken by treaty committees? Can it change, can it prevent amendments? What is the role, what are the instruments by which the European Parliament can make a difference? We have discussed the various specialised committees in detail. They are therefore unable to amend EU legislation and regulations. There's no way we can do that on any ground. Another question is the adaptation of the Convention, the CETA Convention text. This can only be done again on the usual route, by means of a Council decision before the EU can agree to anything in the Committee at all. The Netherlands is on that Council. The European Parliament shall be informed. Thus, no EU law and regulation is adapted through CETA committees. The government's opinion is that this is not contrary to the Constitution. Once again, we do not recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u14	The Minister is now confusing a few things and, for example, using the word'she', which means something else. I asked for examples where the European Parliament has or will have the opportunity to amend, reject or do anything about a proposal from a treaty committee. The Minister's answer is about what treaty committees can and cannot do. Then comes the word that the European Parliament is 'informed'. Informing is not the same as having control.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u15	No, I didn't. Excuse me. It happened in a hurry. The committees are specialised committees looking at technical implementation. Should the Commission itself have made a proposal to slightly increase the criteria, for example on clothianidin, which might make it easier for Canada to do so, then it should always be submitted for approval. That's not an adaptation of CETA. As a result, such committees are not contrary to the Constitution. That's a totally different order and size. The Committees shall be subject to Union law, to the usual structures, to the decision-making process and to the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u16	For the approval of who?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u17	I don't know if this is a rhetorical question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u18	No, it was a sincere question. You explain... Let's take such a technical decision, a small decision made by such a special committee. You say that we still have to do so for approval. For the approval of who? The European Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u19	A mandate shall be established in the Council. It will then be discussed and after that it will still have to go through the European Parliament again. As was the case in the clothianidin case, the European Parliament voted away the proposal. It has therefore not been approved; it has been agreed. Before we dive into all the technical details of subcommittees: I would like to give two more cases in writing in the further information I have promised. Then you will have it in writing and I am sure that the whole procedure line will be used properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u20	In conclusion, Mrs Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u21	I think it would be a good idea for the Minister to explain that. She's sketching the front here. That's the bet. That is what the Council, through the European Commission, will be the input into the Treaty Committee from which a decision is taken. I am talking about that decision, which the European Parliament can then amend, reject or whatever. It is not about the front, it is about the decision of the Treaty Committee. Anyway, we may not get out of this. I think it would be wise for the Minister to put that on paper one step at a time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u22	We'll send that in an annex. It's a technical process description, but I think the difference is in the wording. Mrs Van Weerdenburg assumes that all these committees are constantly changing things. That's not true. They're working on execution. The reports and the calls are online. I think that is where the discrepancy lies in our understanding, but I am happy to do so in writing again, with all my love.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u23	A word more about the WOB documents. I hear from the Minister's reply that she has not read quite correctly that Canada is actually trying to interfere with EU legislation and is being given the opportunity to do so. I just printed it out in duplicate. Unfortunately, I've had to waste half a tree on it, but it's no different. I hope the Minister will read this seriously. There is also an explanation of foodwatch on which points they consider to be very debatable, with quotes and references to pages. I'd like to offer this to the minister through the messenger. I also have a copy for the Christian Union, because I think Mr Voordewind would like to take note of this too. I would like this in the letter sent before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u24	I have made a number of commitments on written information. I will come back to that in the final round. I have commented on our understanding of the how and why of the foodwatch data. You will understand that in the 30 minutes I had in the preparation of motions I did not have time for the officials, who worked here for a very long time, to digest 140 pages again. But the cabinet has given the information and appreciation as I have now put it. It's about a Canadian commitment to negotiations. The other thing, which is much more important to the cabinet, is that our position is unchanged and that protection as it has been established in accordance with the Treaties is protected. I have also made a commitment that I will return to the Commission once more to make sure that there is indeed no blackmail and that only the technical committees are looking at the way they should be. I think that this is the end of the food-watch issue at the moment. It's about Canadian information. I have just reaffirmed the attitude towards the cabinet and towards the European Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u25	Of course, I fully understand that officials cannot wrestle through about 400 pages and get the core out of it. I couldn't do that myself. Luckily, there's an explanation of foodwatch. This concerns e-mails and discussions between Canada and the EU. That's all I care about. I would very much like the Minister and her officials to take a very long time to look at that. I'd still like to offer this through the messenger, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u26	As far as I am concerned, this can simply be disseminated, but the Minister is talking about her answer. She decides whether or not she wants to return to it in a letter. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u27	We are working on a letter with additional information for the Chamber. What's relevant from this conversation, we'll take it with us. Furthermore, this information is simply accessible to the public. We can find this and we don't need paper duplication.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u28	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u29	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna move on to the motions. The first motion, in part No. 9, is by Mrs Diks, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen and Mrs Ouwehand. It's a nice motion if you want to look at mailbox companies. My colleague Menno Snel, former Secretary of State, has drawn a lot of attention to this, including in his reform of the tax plans. We want to see how you can find a final formula. The problem in CETA, but also elsewhere, is that the definition is not very hard and firm yet. I can promise that I will commit myself to sharpening the definition. The ICS and CETA offer opportunities for this. But, of course, we depend on the other countries and the Commission. And in any case, it will not be discussed until the ICS can enter into force. With these notes I give this motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u30	The motion in part No. 9 has Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u31	On the motion in part No. 10 I will come back separately on the basis of the change. The motion in part No. 11 belongs to Mrs Diks and Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. We have debated this issue extensively. I reject this motion on the basis of the substantive contribution of the cabinet to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u32	The motion in part No. 11 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u33	The motion in part No. 12, by Mrs Ouwehand, refers again to the WOB request and the discussion that is taking place on this subject. Mrs Ouwehand refers to documents released by the Canadian government. I've indicated before that they're internal pieces of Canadian silk. The reports of the CETA Committees are also requested. They're all public and online. I do not think we can make any further, other information available. So I'd like to dissuade this motion. It is also a question of feasibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u34	The motion in part No. 12 has been dissuaded, but Mrs Ouwehand has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u35	From those reports the Minister refers to, you cannot get factual information. Those reports state: "The parties have spoken of MRLs'. Or it says, "The parties have exchanged information, and expertise has also been brought in about mesus and mezo." But if you're gonna wobble, you're gonna find out exactly what changed. That's what the Canadian government did. The Minister stands for transparency. I would like us not to depend on WOB procedures for the European part. I just want the Minister to say: 'Oh yes, this is relevant information, so I ask the European Commission if I can make that public'. Then there is no need to initiate a WOB procedure by a social organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u36	The latter is, of course, a little too broad, and that is easy, because there are also just internal reports and reports. A choice is always made about what can be communicated externally. So I guess we're not going to be too easy about that. There are also a lot of reports in which a government can choose to bring them out at a greater level of abstraction, day by day. I'm gonna have to talk to you about this. I think this goes through my colleague, the Minister for Agriculture. But in a generic sense, I need to see what procedures are in place to get even more information from the Commission. Because, of course, there are rules, and I don't know this one. But the rule is, of course, right now that the Commission is informing all Member States and the wider public in this way. Furthermore, there are those at the meeting. They report on this through their own, official channels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u37	Finalizing, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u38	May I inform the Minister that from the WOB application submitted to the Canadian Government, some documents have come out, but just the pieces that are about meat have "coincidentally" been wiped out, while hormone meat is a huge break point for the coalition partner? Then the Minister must have the guts to say "you know what, I'm just transparent about that; look, nothing's wrong"? If the Minister does not do so, then of course there is no doubt that something is not right there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u39	I wish I had so much time in a day that I can actually read all the internal reports from CETA sub-committees. That would be really nice. But in this case, as I said, I do not know what the procedures are for more information being shared by the committee. There may be rules and arrangements. I can't make a commitment until I know how that works. All I want to say is I'll do some checking. As the motion has now been tabled, I would advise against it, because it is not feasible at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u40	The Minister continued her argument with the motion in part No. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u41	I think I was still at... Oh, yes, the motion in part No. 13, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u42	Oh, one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u43	It's a procedural point. The Minister admits she's investigating what's possible. Maybe the petitioner can hold the motion until we have some clarity on that. That might be useful for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u44	Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u45	I understand that the Minister is sending a comprehensive letter before the vote to remove all the concerns of the Christian Union. I propose that she also make it clear in that letter whether or not we can control what is being exchanged on hormone meat in those committees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u46	But you're not holding the motion, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u47	I'm not gonna hold her for a while. I am counting on the Minister in the letter she is going to send to remove the concerns of the Christian Union so that the Christian Union will vote in favour of the CETA Convention, to say something about what will then be exchanged in those committees about hormone meat and what possibilities there are for our Parliament to control that. I'm just assuming that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u48	It's beautiful, of course. There will be no letter to remove the concerns of the Christian Union. Information is being shared. I have been talking to the European Commission for weeks to clarify and look again at all kinds of concerns, including myself, even before this debate, what would still be possible within the framework of CETA, Union law and WTO rules. So let us take that off the table as a name, because I do not think that is correct, not even in the context of the wider debate. The second is that I said that I need to find out what can and can't do. I believe that the cabinet has already taken a huge step forward by saying: we do not know and we discourage the motion on the basis of feasibility, because I cannot judge it at the moment, but I am prepared to see if further information can be shared. But I'm not gonna hang that up on any more information I've promised this Chamber anyway. That commitment dates from my first term and is not acutely linked to this issue. That information can always follow. Moreover, Mrs Ouwehand has always been fully informed about all these questions, both in the Committee on Agriculture and in all the AO's on trade. She's asked a lot of questions. The cabinet has always shared what it can share.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u49	No, Mrs. Ouwehand, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u50	Mr President, here I am making a personal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u51	No, let me finish, please. My question to you was whether you're holding the motion. You said I wouldn't. The Minister has given her answer. We're going to vote on the motions on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u52	Mr President, I am indeed not holding the motion. I'd like to make a personal statement. The Minister claims here that I have been given detailed information on the questions I have asked. It's true that I've asked a lot of questions, but the information I asked for didn't come. That's up to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u53	That was a personal fact and not a question. The Minister continues her speech. We're at the motion in part No. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u54	Yeah, sorry. I'm not charging myself, Mrs. Ouwehand. Any member who so requests shall be informed on the basis on which the Cabinet considers possible. Transparency is an important fact in this regard. In the motion in part No. 13, by Mrs Ouwehand and Mrs Diks, we are asked to say that the Mercosur Treaty should be removed. You can anticipate the verdict. The motion is dissuaded. The opinion of the cabinet comes only after all the necessary documents have been received, so when we have the sustainability impact assessment, know the impact on Dutch agriculture and have the formal text of the treaty. This is a court answer. I am not giving an opinion on the substance of Mercosur here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u55	The motion in part No. 13 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u56	On that basis, I advise against the motion. Then the motion to part No. 14 by Mrs Ouwehand. It calls on the government to make it clear to the European Commission and the United States that it is unacceptable for the Netherlands that chemical-treated chicken meat should enter the European market. The motion also calls on the government to make it clear that under no circumstances can European non-tariff barriers be reduced for agricultural products imported from the United States. All products exported to the European market must comply with European standards on plant and animal health, food safety and labelling. I'm repeating myself. I apologize. The Netherlands, like the EU, has the view that no chemical-treated chicken meat or beef is allowed on the European market from the US. These questions have also been answered much earlier. Nothing has changed since the last reply to Mrs Thieme on 14 April 2015, at least not on this particular issue. With regard to deployment, perhaps it is also intended to do so for possible discussions with the US, I would refer you to the letter sent earlier this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u57	And your judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u58	I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u59	The motion in part No. 14 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u60	Then the motion to part No. 15 by Mr Alkaya. It's about the working groups again. The motion calls on the government to take the initiative for greater democratic control and transparency. We do not think there is a lack of democratic control. We have already discussed this in detail. We have just had an exchange of views on possible additional information, but since we do not agree with the central premise that more democratic control is needed, I would advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u61	The motion in part No. 15 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u62	Then the motion to part No. 16. It's about the claim system, the ICS. No, we're not going back to the drawing board. There is one treaty and we support the ICS. I do not want to repeat the debate. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u63	The motion in part No. 16 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u64	The motion in part No. 17 by Mr Jetten and Mr Bouali, I am happy to give judgment to the Chamber. It is entirely in line with the approach and approach of this cabinet, including in Europe and towards trade agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u65	The motion in part No. 17 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u66	The motion in part No. 18 gets judgment Chamber. This is standing policy. We will indeed look for accompanying measures if sectors are found to be affected. The European Commission may also take additional measures. We'll be focused on that. A timely report on CETA in due course will help with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u67	The motion in part No. 18 has been given Judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u68	The motion in part No. 19 by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Voordewind and Mr Jetten will also be judged Chamber. We consider it appropriate to evaluate the operation, as I have already indicated. However, I do not think that will be possible for a whole number of years to come. This can only be done after the entry into force of the ICS part of the Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u69	The motion in part No. 19 also gets Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u70	The motion in part No. 20 gets judgment, too, Room. It is important to clarify a number of things, because there is a lot in the motion. The motion calls on the government to make every effort to agree at European level with Canada on the certification of agricultural products from Canadian companies wishing to export to the EU. An explanation of the certificates will follow. The motion also calls on the government to urge the Commission to carry out audits and to check whether the rules on animal meal and on GMOs are strictly enforced. You know from the debate that the exclusion of products that do not comply with EU food safety standards is, of course, not under discussion. That's not what this is about. We continue to strictly enforce products that are already excluded. Hormone meat is, of course, a very important example of this. But the question is whether border controls are sufficient to ensure that there is comfort, that the Commission actually has all the information and that we can give enough satisfaction to the consumer, the citizen, that indeed only certified hormone-free meat enters the EU. Joint audits via track and trace are a method to ensure that this is waterproof. We think it is a good thing, but I think it is a good thing to look for broadening and additional steps. Of course, we must discuss this with the EU and then with Canada, because Canada must accept it. But we see this as important steps in the context of higher standards and broadening comfort, using the existing consultation and discussion culture. CETA lends itself to that, so we're gonna get to work on it. I am going to do this and I would also like to report back on this in the context of the shared interest that we attach to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u71	This was all about the motion in part no. 20, who's been given a ruling on Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u72	The motion in part No. 21 by Mr Voordewind and Mr Amhaouch will be judged Chamber. In the debate, we indicated that the cabinet is coming up with a plan for 1 May 2020, also in view of the sensitivities and interests within the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u73	The motion in part No. 21 also gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u74	Yes. Sorry, that's what I started, Mr. Chairman, in the context of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u75	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u76	Then I come to the motion on part No. 22 by Mr Baudet. I have previously exchanged this with Mr Öztürk in the first term. Provisional application remains an intrinsic part of mixed EU agreements. This also makes it possible to view certain applications in advance and to see where, of course, progress can be made. It does not undermine the right of approval of national parliaments. We have discussed this at length.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u77	So the verdict is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u78	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u79	The motion in part No. 22 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u80	Then I come to the final motion, I believe, for my final final comment on information. That's the motion in part No. 23, tabled by Mr Baudet. I advise against this motion. As indicated in the debate, the cabinet does not recognise itself in this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u81	The motion in part No. 23 has been dissuaded. You would like to come back to the motion on item No. 10, which has changed slightly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u82	Well, I was just looking at it. Without the word 'product' and without Mrs Diks' amendment, we had the motion in part No. In its original form, 10 were left to the judgment of the Chamber. Mrs Diks' amendment discourages her, because the scope is too wide and cannot be promised. Honesty commands me to add this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u83	Mrs. Diks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u84	No, it looks like it's complicated, but it's not. Indeed, in its first term, the Minister indicated that there was no tariff for oil under the WTO, so I should of course have amended myself earlier. That is precisely why we have made the addition of these petroleum products. This has resulted in additional trade because the tariff on these products has fallen, and that is precisely what GroenLinks does not want to promote. That's why I'm maintaining the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u85	I don't have the prices for the products in front of me right now, but I'm sticking to the assessment we've given. We dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u86	The motion in part No. 24, formerly No. 10, it's been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u87	Then there was a question from Mrs Van Weerdenburg and others, I thought, who asked what was in the letter I promised as a form of additional information. A number of members asked for guarantees for the government's commitment. So I will try to mention in the letter that you are about to receive what the cabinet itself is about to do and to tell you more specifically what is possible, with an assessment of the possibilities for doing so together in a European context and also with Canada. With regard to the Commission, I would just like to confirm this once again: I have, of course, been in constant contact, not just for one day. I travelled specifically to Brussels on 30 January to discuss a number of specific points and also to hear from the Commission what is still alive in other countries, where the solutions lie and where this is possible. In the letter you will receive, that will be as soon as possible and certainly for the debate; we are aiming for tomorrow, I will also take the information I have received from the Commission for consideration and consideration by this Parliament. Thank you so much for everything. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u88	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister and to the Foreign Minister and the staff. We have had a debate for more than 15 hours and Mr Voordewind wants to extend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u89	Just before the short-term report: the Minister said 'in preparation for the debate', but I think she means 'in preparation for the votes'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u90	Oh, sorry. Yes. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u91	Of the votes, indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u92	I wasn't hoping there'd be another sequel.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u93	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-5.u94	We're going to vote on all the motions filed and the approval law on Tuesday 18 February. We are going to suspend very briefly and then we have a roll-call vote on an order proposal.
