ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u1	I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the many questions that have been asked. Of course, I am going to try to answer them briefly, but it is good to consider some of the questions asked, because they are questions that also live wider in society about that app. A number of speakers have referred to how we have already started. It is indeed good to think back to that, because it started with an OMT advice that came on April 6th. The OMT advised "to examine the possibilities for support of source and contact detection using mobile applications as soon as possible. The OMT considers this necessary for the future phase, in addition to the regular source and contact research." Subsequently, the OMT had a preference for using techniques that ensure the privacy of end-users. That was the advice on April 6th. I decided at that time that "the better detection of infections can help to prevent a new revival of the outbreak. A more intensive testing policy also involves more intensive contact research, and we can see that technology can be helpful in this. We are thinking of two possible apps. One that tells you if you've been anywhere near another user who turns out to be infected. And another one you can easily keep in touch with a doctor in the neighborhood." Those were the two digital applications we thought of at the time. Then, of course, there were a lot of questions. How's that gonna work? What's that supposed to look like? Government and ICT is never such a happy combination; how does it go on? And then we thought: the best thing we can do is try to make the choice for one of the apps in full light. My hope at that time was that one of the apps from the market that were currently in development and which were sometimes already being tested by the same companies in another country might also be suitable for this work here in the Netherlands. We wanted to organise that process, that choice process, as transparent as possible, hence the appathon. However, there appeared to be no outcome that actually met the standards. You have expressed all kinds of qualifications for this. I've heard "stuffy." I thought that was a very loving qualification. I heard "Bumpy" from Mrs Van den Berg. "Hurry" I heard, "chaotic" I heard and at that time I read many more qualifications, which sounded less loving and I think were less loving. If I looked back at that myself afterwards, I should have made it clear that we were starting a search which we were not sure would actually provide us with a useful app at the end of that weekend, and that it was really meant to be a market consultation. I should have at least communicated that more clearly. I think that this has made the expectation too high and the result too disappointing. What made it doubly complicated in Hindsight was that digital applications are certainly digital applications by a government that always cause concerns and questions to some of the people, who can also feed distrust. What kind of society do we go to with this? All kinds of conspiracy theories, which were sometimes already in the minds of people and sometimes also on the various social media, can be fed extra and that does not help of course. That's the downside of that public trial. That's how I look back at that. Someone asked me to reflect on that. I believe it was Mr Hijink. Well, that's it. That's how I look back at that. Well, there's an advantage to that, too. I'm a gentle man, but I think the glass here is half full, because if you take such a step, you can only do it in perfect transparency. After we had that appathon, it was impossible, I think, to shape the follow-up process transparently. So what we knew for sure was that from then on we had to do everything in perfect transparency. The second advantage is that in that whole process we have met a very large group of critical, very critical thinkers. Competitors in the sense of faith have that there would indeed be something to do that could work, but under a whole series of conditions that it would all have to meet. We then set up a working process to involve all those critical thinkers. There was also a third big advantage. We know that such a digital tool, certainly government-initiated, must meet high standards if you want to use it in such a crisis. But after all the tumult, the bumpy start, the bumpy start, there really was only one way: the supreme demands must apply in terms of privacy, security, accessibility and communication and it must be perfectly voluntary. That has been emphasised by everyone, even today. So the best and the brightest had to get to work. We also built that team: partly government, partly non-government and partly a whole, voluntary, community around it. Let me express my deep gratitude and admiration for all those people who have participated, thought, cooperated, sometimes in the night, sometimes perfectly willingly, but simply because they wanted it to be something good. It was for me a glimpse into a world that I didn't know until recently, but I think it's quite admirable how much effort has been put into this. Two. We have of course also designed the process with endless checks-and-balances, because at the time the final product would stand, we could not afford to doubt it. I think that doubt about the end product itself has been removed. There are a number of serious questions that I would like to address as well as possible. I shall begin with Mr Van Haga's question. He says: does the Minister agree with me that such a tool should never become an end in itself? I agree with him perfectly. It's a tool. It has always been that way, in the opinion of the OMT, in the response of the cabinet back then. But in the imaging it has not always been and it has sometimes been made too big. I think we should just say to each other very soberly: it's a tool. Nothing more, nothing less. Nothing more, nothing less. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. Nothing more, nothing less. It's a tool. A tool that can help break the infection chain. That's actually what it is. That doesn't make it a silver bullet. It's not "the only solution." It's not a hairminder oil for all our problems. Not at all. It's one of the instruments we can put in that big toolbox we're filling together, and we want to use.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u3	You're still working on your introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u4	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u5	So I'm just waiting for the Minister to finish this, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u6	I actually wanted to say that I want to do the answer in four blocks. The first is about all the questions about effectiveness, and I refer to the questions and the amendment on evaluation. I think that's one block. It's a match. Then a lot of questions have been asked about testing. I would particularly like to answer this in the light of the use of the app, otherwise we will evaluate the whole test and trace policy together. The third block deals with the questions that have been asked about the anti-abuse clause. The fourth block is about technique. Those are all the technical questions you have asked. I'm trying to answer them as best I can. Then I probably have a few other questions, but I think this is it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u7	And the introduction is now ready. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u8	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u9	Then I'll go to Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u10	My question was about the process, not about the first phase of the development of the app, but about the second phase, in which a lot of things may have gone very well. I asked a moment ago if we could get some kind of evaluation, so to speak...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u11	Lessons learned?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u12	Well, let's call it an evaluation of that part of the process. What went well in the areas of transparency, privacy, the involvement of volunteer experts and so on? Because I think that can be very useful, not only for this project, but also for all kinds of other ICT projects that are running or following.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u13	I actually think that's a very good suggestion. I have to take this with colleague Knops, who has the digital government in his portfolio, so I really need to talk to him about it. But it seems to me to be a very good one. You could say that this is perhaps one of the most complex ICT projects ever within the government; I honestly do not know that. Well, technically, it isn't. But I think that is the case in terms of unrest in the social environment. I don't think there's ever been so many people with an opinion about a government digital product. I believe that in this case this is two-fold complicated. But there's no doubt there's a way to learn from that. You can learn from the open source side, I think. So I'm going to record with my colleague Knops how we could involve the lessons that would be to be drawn, call it an evaluation.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. I think that's a good suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u14	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u15	As Mr Van der Staaij said, the law before us is actually very limited. Others have also referred to this, such as Mr Verhoeven. One provision is that there should be no abuse of the app. The app may not be required. The other provision specifies the basis for data processing. That's it. Nevertheless, during such a legal process, all legitimate questions concerning the introduction of the app are also asked. The most appropriate question is, of course, whether that app is helping. Is it really a tool? Does it really have added value? That's the only really important question. A second important question might be whether that app has such negative effects that we have to say goodbye to it despite seeing that it does help. I understand that question very well. That is why we have said that a continuous evaluation is actually needed. Again and again we have to answer this type of question. On the advice of the guidance committee, the Task Force digital support and the Task Force behavioural sciences, we have opted for a continuous evaluation. Last Friday, we reported it to you in a letter. It states that this will be done on the basis of an evaluation protocol. The evaluation focuses on a number of facets of the app. I refer to the degree of adoption, the use, the directly targeted effects, the indirect effects, but also the unintended effects. I think it's important to evaluate this widely. I should like to say a few words about the way in which the Chamber looks at this. Let us carry out this continuous evaluation and I will inform you of it with a fixed frequency. I'm thinking of doing that every month. You will not have new data on all facets every month, but that gives the Chamber the chance to keep up with the implementation practice in a good way. The Chamber can see what the effects are and what the actual added value of the app is. If you ask me whether this app really makes any sense, I will reply on the basis of the authority of a number of experts, based on experience abroad and on the advice of the OMT. I say to you: yes, that app makes absolutely sense in addition to the source and contact research, never instead. That app makes sense because you will always be able to visualize more contacts via the app than without that app. That's just because that's how our memory works. You don't remember who you were sitting next to in the bus booth last night. You don't remember who you were sitting next to at the restaurant table last night. In the regular source and contact research, it is often unclear who you have encountered within the criteria of the LCI directive. You know that with an app like that. It's never instead of, but as a complement to. What exactly is the effect? How much effect does the app have? Are there any negative effects? I can imagine anything about many of these questions, but we will not know until we try it out in practice and evaluate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u16	I just heard the Minister say that based on experience abroad, there is reason to believe that such an app can be successful. Where's that? What foreign country?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u17	Germany, for example. That's the foreign country we're doing most of the work with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u18	That's where it's not successful. That's where it turns out it doesn't work. Germany is a counter example. It shows that nobody installs that thing and that it doesn't work at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u19	That's really wrong. It is installed millions of times and is also widely used. There are now quite a few reports there that have led to a test and a rash in which the infection chain can be broken. Everything we do must be dedicated to keeping the virus underneath. You look at the extent to which this could be detrimental to the economy and society in a very different way. In that respect, we differ in any case. At least what we see as our most important task is to see if we can do all those things that can break the infection chain, so transferring the virus from one to the other. Source and contact research is an important method. Your test and a positive result will show you who has been in contact with us through source and contact research. In doing so, you use a certain statistical assumption. I'm talking about 15 minutes within five feet. That says something about the probability of transfer. That's the time to stop that infection chain, by asking if anyone would like to go into quarantine. This is actually a complement to that regular process of testing and source and contact research, because this is more complete in visualizing the contacts and because it also informs faster those contacts about what to do. That helps, is the assumption. Can I actually prove that right now on the basis of research? No, we can't, because that investigation still needs to be done. But are the experiences abroad such that you say that this could be a very promising addition to the source and contact research? The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u20	That is what we differ on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u21	I'm trying to make it clear what the evaluation is about now. I get the impression that the Minister says: let's start with that evaluation and then we can tighten it up over time. I would like at least one thing to be included in the evaluation. That's about measuring added value. There is a value in discovering possible infections through the source and contact research anyway. The assumption is that more people will be discovered by the CoronaMelder. When measuring the effectiveness of the CoronaMelder, will we also see if we can get rid of all the people who are already in the picture through the source and contact research? Are we also looking specifically at the extra amount of false positives and their impact on society in relation to what we would have discovered through the regular source and contact research?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u22	Yeah, I think that should be, because that's right. Then you actually answer the questions you have. I'm gonna have to say a few things. One. Last Friday the evaluation protocol was sent as an annex to the letter. That's a pretty bulky document. All kinds of questions have been asked about effectiveness. I just mentioned the categories. This should give us the answer to the question of effectiveness. RIVM will further develop this research together with a number of universities and behavioral experts. But this very specific point means that you want to know exactly whether that app actually creates additional contacts in relation to the regular source and contact research. That's important. Suppose it would produce exactly the same contacts, but if you have them in the picture rather than after a whole day's call, that also helps. That's what you want to know. In addition, there is another side: haven't all kinds of people come into the picture that you didn't have to worry about so much, people who, for example, have come into the picture via the inaccurate bluetooth measurement? That, of course, could also be the case. How could you measure that? I'm just thinking out loud. You look at the number of people who actually get sick, so the contacts that eventually turn out to be infected. If the percentage of contacts that come into view via the BCO is very different from the percentage of contacts that come into view via the CoronaMelder, then you could draw the conclusion that you might have ejected the net a little too far. It could be. Either way, you're gonna have to check for effectiveness. So you want to get a look at those contacts, and the assumption would be that those contacts will eventually contain contaminations. That would be the assumption. That's how you want to measure effectiveness. Do you have all that in focus after month one? I do not think so, because we do not yet have this kind of data from all the countries that are now a little further ahead with the introduction. Otherwise, of course, we would have shared it with you. So, yes, we're setting up our investigation as best we can. I am as curious about the answers to the questions as Mrs Buitenweg is. But it's gonna be a while before you can answer it in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u23	I am very pleased with the Minister's response. I don't think I'm going to read that all the way back in the design of the evaluation. I think the Minister is going a little further, but I see this as a supplement. For example, it will be included in the final evaluation protocol, for which I would like to thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u24	Give me the opportunity to really take a closer look at the protocol and to look at what we can do in the development of the research to bring these questions into view. Perhaps we should also ask a statement: how much time does it take to have the answers to these questions in the picture? 'Cause setting up an investigation like that really takes a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u25	I found the bulky document that the Minister just called "the evaluation protocol" one of the shorter ones. It contains, in my mind, five pages, or maybe six.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u26	Sixteen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u27	Sixteen. Well, then I'll read faster than I thought. I've read all about it. This is what I noticed. There are six points in these criteria and there are only five points in the letter. In my contribution, I have also paid a great deal of attention to the question of what criteria you are going to use. In my view, the Minister is also convinced that we really need to look very closely at the behavioural effects here. Effectiveness was just mentioned, but I think it is far too early to say: we are now going to learn lessons. It's just beginning. We call it "evaluate" here in this house, but we really need to talk about "monitors." What happens in the first few weeks? The Minister looks at this on the basis of the evaluation protocol, but does he also intend to look at the question of where he can get information about how people respond to the CoronaMelder if there is? And doesn't he plan to do that for the first time after a month? These are innovations. In one instance, anyone can download and use that app. So my point is that you need to look at that a little more often in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u28	I have just mentioned the issues that are all part of the ongoing evaluation. I don't think we should tell each other that you have new information on all these issues every week or every two weeks. The question that Mrs Buitenweg answers can only be answered when you have done really good research. You need volume for that. So you need time to come up with a good research setup. At the same time, the demand for the number of downloads is again one of the most easy to answer questions, I think. So I would be inclined to think that we should make what we know as transparent as possible, but that I should make the appointment to inform your Chamber monthly about the status of the ongoing CoronaMelder review. That is from the moment of the national introduction. Such a continuous evaluation will indeed have the character of a monitor, where you know more and more, but not every month are able to come up with a full evaluation to complete your mind. But we know more and more to answer the question of effectiveness. We all have that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u29	This is not just about effectiveness. We really need to avoid using a twenty-first century instrument based on all kinds of good reasons, such as privacy, technology, etc., actually a nineteenth-century monitoring system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u30	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u31	So I'm not just looking for a monitor. I also want to know whether the Minister intends to do the utmost and to see how he can monitor what happens when he introduces the CoronaMelder, especially because he can only adjust on that basis. So I ask the Minister to do the utmost to identify criteria and therefore to think about the question: if I monitor this and then get these values, what are my flexibilitys; can I do something in the CoronaMelder or should I do something in another place?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u32	You must indeed set up your monitor in such a way that you are also able to adjust the policy based on the data you see. Mr Middendorp is, of course, right to point out that we have deliberately chosen to minimize data. While you can normally say, normally, that we do so every week on a lot of apps based on data exchange, we can also say more about the extent of the use, the intensity of the use, etc., we can't do that at this time of course, because we didn't want to trigger these kinds of data flows on purpose. In short, data minimization also limits the possibilities. This means that you will have to design it more research-wise, or nineteenth-century as Mr Middendorp says. We will all do so as modern as possible. I think it is important that this monitoring, or what I call 'ongoing evaluation' and what you call'monitoring', provides us with the data to be able to adjust policies. Again, I want to be as transparent about this as possible. I also think that this is important at this stage. That's how I hear your room. That actually means that a month after the national introduction, I want to be able to say something about how the app is being used, whether it is working or not, and whether there are also negative effects. The questions that Mrs Buitenweg adds are of course the real questions that you want answered: what is the real added value of using CoronaMelder in the fight against infectious diseases? We need to answer those questions in the investigation. That is why we need to dive into precision. It's not going to be automated, it's going to have to be manual. If you come into contact with Corona, will it provide more contacts and contact with................................................................................................................................................... I think it's important to add that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u33	The Minister has just spoken about monitoring and about Mrs Buitenweg's questions to compare the results of regular source and contact research with what the app does extra. The CDA had also asked whether specific targets were set, or does the Minister say that this is not possible in the current system?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u34	The objectives of adoption or use?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u35	With regard to adoption, use or additional effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u36	No, that's not possible. Of course, you want the app to be used as much as possible, but I'm not gonna put a number on that in advance. I would like to see no more reports in the picture than would actually have been, but I can't put numbers on them right now. I think we just need to get to work on it and then we need to see what effectiveness is. I do not think that a numerical objective is very helpful in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u37	Then let me turn it around: are there also certain cut-off moments?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u38	I understand that very well. If you see that it has no added value compared to regular usage and if you see that it does have some negative effects, then you have to be honest to say that this has not brought us what we hoped for. This question has also been asked by a number of Members. It's possible. At that stage, you can come. We have to be honest with each other about that, too. You're doing something because you're convinced it's gonna help. That is the opinion of the OMT first and then of a lot of experts who have been involved. Then you come to something that I really believe is of added value, but that has to be demonstrated in practice. If that is not the case and there are negative effects, you must also be so honest as to say that we should not do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u39	In itself, we are pleased with the monthly evaluation, to use those words. At least that feels better than what we have seen so far in the evaluation protocol. But I still find it difficult to see what considerations we make as a Chamber: are we going to continue with the app or not? How do we take these possible negative social impacts into the evaluation? Those are essential parts for us to do some kind of stop on the app. It just feels a little too non-committal for us to say that we might change the policy. I would like a little more concrete information, not only on effectiveness, but also on what we do in the event of negative social effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u40	Now, if you ask me to standard that in advance, I think this is a question that I cannot answer properly. In the evaluation model, the unintended effects are one of the themes that are consciously taken into account, for example: does the app lead to slackening of the follow-up of other corona measures? It could be. I thought Mrs Van der Graaf mentioned an example of this. Imagine someone thinking with an app like this: I think I'm a little safer than normal, because if I've been within five feet of someone who's infected, I'll get a signal on my own. If this were the behavior effect, I don't know if it would make a great contribution. It may well be that this is the behavioral effect in a number of people. Should this immediately result in the plug being pulled out? Well, I don't think so. But it must then lead to a communication action to clarify what you may and may not assume to be safe from the app. The app isn't a miracle cure, it's a tool. So we need to be exactly what you're wearing and not what you're wearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u41	What, in your opinion, does it lead to pulling the plug from the app when the app has negative societal effects? It can sometimes work very effectively, but still have a lot of negative side effects. When does the plug go off? How do we measure that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u42	That's always a weighting, so that's never an absolute limit or anything. That's always a weighting, always an administrative weighting. And that is why it is quite unique in this project, let me just say that we are so short on the ball with the ability to test whether something is effective or not. For example, we do not ask about the effectiveness of the regular source and contact research every month, because we are just really convinced of what its effectiveness is. Well, this is an addition to that regular source and contact research. And here we are going to sit very briefly on top of it so that we can continue to answer that question of effectiveness. Whatever we do, it's as good a picture as possible of the negative effects. What you are asking of me in advance is: could you then standardize whatever balance of pros and cons you pull the plug on? Well, that's impossible; that's not how we can make policies, I guess. It will always require an administrative weighting from me, initially, from the cabinet, but ultimately also from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u43	Mr. Chairman. I just got the impression that the success of the app is measured by the number of contacts found outside the regular source and contact research. But I think it's not so much about those contacts, but about the infections that we can track through that app. And in addition, of course, the problem is that we have very little data to analyze. That is a conscious and right choice, because privacy must be guaranteed. But the dates we do have, we have them from the trial period we have already had in the regions in the east of the country. We've been told that 412 people have reported to the GD after they've had a report. I have just asked: have we not tested, of course, at person level, many of these 412 people positively? Because if that's zero, it says something about the effectiveness of the app, and if that's 10%, it also says something about the effectiveness of the app.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u44	We cannot do that on the basis of the current data. I think that's the most honest answer. Normally, I'd take a look at the bin to double-check it, but I don't think we can do that on the basis of the current data. What we know is that 412 people applied for a test between August 20 and 26, indicating that they had a notification from the CoronaMelder. On the other hand, during the same period, there were eight infections that were introduced through that CoronaMelder, i.e. where the code was entered. So that would mean that those eight infections would have led to 412 reports. That's pretty unlikely. Also when introduced in Ireland, for example, it was one of the experience data, especially in this case because reporting such a notification on the app gives access to asymptomatic testing, which in practice might be a bit rounded up. So I guess we shouldn't jump to too many conclusions on the basis of the data from that first week. I didn't hear a number that would show how many infections there would be between 412, so I don't know. But, of course, that's what you want in the end. So you are right: where I say in the direction of Mrs Buitenweg that you should want to know how many more contacts are being traced, you would of course want to know again how many of those contacts are actually infected, because then you have the real catch at stopping the infection chain. Yeah, that's the million dollar question. But before you examine that convincingly in the right way, you're gonna be a while. Assume that's what you're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u45	I think that's exactly the point. That's what you're hoping that that app will do: track infections. And my question now is: can we, on the basis of how the app is now set up and on the basis of what the GGD can and can do at the moment, find out about these figures? Or is it all on a voluntary basis what people report, or is it based on research that universities then have to do by interrogations etc.? Or is there, because we know how many people report to the GGD for a test, another way we can distill that means that the effectiveness of the app can be determined at about that much percent?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u46	Yeah, in two ways. One is a model approach. That could indeed be a possibility, but of course it always gives a lot of uncertainty. And the other is indeed the more manual investigation, which is always voluntary. So that data minimizement was deliberately chosen. For a good reason, I think, but it doesn't make it any easier to do this type of research. So it's true that it's hard work to find out about this. And that also makes me a little cautious in promises of "yes, we'll have that about right after a month." I think setting up an investigation like that just takes a long time. But I think we're both driven to get as many answers as possible to that type of question, because we want to know how effective it is. If we can introduce it from mid-September or end-September, we will have the answer to these questions by mid-October or end-October. They are quite right, but they also take a lot of time to investigate properly. What we do know, I will at least make monthly announcements, and if possible sooner, when we have hard numbers before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u47	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u48	Mr. Chairman. I think I've had the evaluation side with this. So I guess I can go to the second block with that. This also affects the effectiveness, namely the block of asymptomatic testing. At present, the test policy is based on the LCI Directive. I would like to say that this LCI directive... We have now had a number of debates in which we have all expressed our views, and I also hear about what this LCI directive should or should not contain. But let me just say that this LCI directive is a professional directive, a medical directive, and that is comparable to directives on medical treatment. I do not remember doing this for a while now because we have had a debate in the Chamber on a medical directive, on how or not an operation should be carried out. In the meantime, we do so on a weekly basis on the BCO Directive, the LCI Directive. That doesn't matter either, because BCO, the source and contact research, and testing and tracking are incredibly important in fighting that disease. So that's why I understand. Only, I'd like to stay in the right chair. So, yes, I also moderate myself on what that directive should look like, but the final judgment is really up to professionals. What do these professionals say? On the advice of the OMT, they say that testing with complaints is the most effective way of deploying test capacity. If you want to stop that infectious disease and break the infection chain, you have to do the testing with complaints. But there are more and more sounds that there is a certain amount of asymptomatic spread of the virus. That was also very clear in the course of the lessons we wanted to draw from the spring. Imagine if in that asymptomatic spread of that virus you could actually catch an infection. Even before anyone has any complaints, he could be contagious. If you could grab him through source and contact research, how much would it matter? Isn't that why you shouldn't be testing asymptomatic for a number of groups? The GGD actually does that in cases of major outbreaks. Even now, sometimes in a nursing home, sometimes in a slaughterhouse, sometimes in a campsite. Then they pull everyone through the car wash to find as many infections as possible. But they always do that very risk-oriented. Yesterday's amendment is based on the OMT opinion. The OMT's view is that you should amend that LCI directive so that you do so at least in nursing homes where there is an outbreak. Let me put that aside for a second. Asymptotic testing is therefore risk and outbreak-oriented, and at least in case of an outbreak in the nursing home. Then we have three research settings on which the OMT has advised us to investigate the added value of asymptomatic testing there as well. One is for returning travellers from orange areas. Hence the test street at Schiphol. Two is in the case of a BCO, so when you come forward as a contact in a source and contact investigation. Why? Because a serious percentage of those contacts... The contacts with roommates are even above 10%. Other close contacts are 5% to 6%. Added up you come to a little 20% in a few weeks. Then it might be worth testing those contacts asymptomaticly, because then you'll have the positive test results that you'll find in a few days with complaints in the test street before. You'll be able to shut down the infection chain before then. Which means you can quarantine those people earlier. The same goes for the app, because they are also just contacts. So if you ask me what the LCI directive should be like, I will just look at the scientific field. The great common denominator is that testing with complaints always takes priority, because that is always the most effective way of combating it. However, in a number of cases, testing without complaints can also be of added value. That actually applies to the people who come out of that app and to the same extent to the people who come out from source and contact research, because those are actually similar types of situations. Because you've been in contact with someone who was infected, so run your chance and so it's worth testing asymptomaticly. Will the LCI directive be amended because we are going to introduce the app? No, because those two things are, in a way, separate from each other. The LCI Directive is being amended when the great common denominator of the scientists who think with us is convinced that it is of sufficient added value. This must then be demonstrated by the research settings as they are currently set up. Secondly, I will still do the test myself if we can make it happen in terms of test capacity. I think it will also be included in the opinions. Every time the OMT advises on whether or not to investigate in asymptomatic testing, they always add: as far as the test capacity allows. They do this because they always give priority to settings where they are tested with complaints. That's not just a Dutch discussion. That is exactly the same discussion that is currently taking place in Germany, where it is for this reason that we are going to phase out the testing of travellers because it says that not only do we not see insufficient added value in it, but our test capacity cannot cope with it. That will always be a consideration over and over the entire crisis between what you really want and what could possibly be a profit, and something you may not be able to deliver and perhaps should not do for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u49	Then I have Mrs Buitenweg, Mrs Kuik, Mrs Sazias, Mr Middendorp and Mr Hijink. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u50	The Minister says that testing with complaints is the most effective way. My question is, however, that the scarcity has already come to light, whether it is mainly the most effective way because there is scarcity or because there are other things involved, such as a false sense of security. If there were no scarcity in that fictitious case, unfortunately not at the moment, would it be desirable to test asymptomaticly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u51	The added value must be demonstrated by these research settings. Two: you're absolutely right, it's also scarcity. If you have to choose between tests with complaints and tests without complaints, most scientists agree that in that case, preference should be given to at least testing with complaints. But when testing without complaints there are a number of other negative effects that are always weighed differently by one than by the other. Suppose you get a negative test result at the time when you weren't really that somatic and didn't have any complaints at all, then you might draw the conclusion: oh, but then I can. That's what you saw around those tests right before you get on a plane, for example. That doesn't really mean anything. If you just test in a random group without any complaints, that doesn't really mean anything. This also applies to returning travellers. Why is it interesting in that group? Because it's not just all the returning travelers. They are travellers who have been in a country with an increased risk of infection. This also applies to the app group and to the group that emerges from the source and contact research. That is a group where a certain risk selection has taken place. They have an increased risk of having been in contact with someone who was infected and thus infected on their own. Hence the choice seven days after the contact. Then you're at a good point in the incubation period. At that moment it could indeed be of added value, but it listens closely, because it can also give a negative effect, a sense of false safety: I'm tested negative, so I'm okay and I'm free to go. That is why we say to the travellers: even if the test results are not positive in themselves, you still have to quarantine for ten days. That's the best behavioral advice you can give to people who come back from an orange country to really stop the infection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u52	How is this added value being measured at the moment? The Minister is actually saying that there is a problem with capacity, which is the reason why people are mostly not being tested, where they might otherwise be tested. But perhaps it would be wise for the other group to be tested as well. For that, we need to measure the added value. Just now the Minister was talking about the evaluation where he says it could take months. Does that mean we won't know this for months? How is he going to find that added value quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u53	There are three research settings for testing without complaints. That's Schiphol, that's the app, and that's the source and contact research. Schiphol and the app have been running for several weeks, the source and contact research should be started or started at this time. It's gonna be a while before you get the results on that. Let me put it a little more broadly: I think that in the second half of September you will have the results of those research settings, that RIVM can then say something meaningful about it, that it can then say whether it is actually of added value. But I say to that: imagine that the answer is "no." Well, then it's easy. Then the LCI Directive will not be amended. If the answer to the question on value added is "yes," then the demand for capacity still applies. Because that is a "yes" in a situation where you have to choose between one form of testing and the other form of testing, depending on the capacity. I cannot say at the moment whether that capacity is there at that time. That will then be by the end of September. I have to say: do we have enough room in the overcapacity that you can make this choice? And why is that? Because I've just seen how disappointing it can be when you're so dependent on suppliers operating on a global market. Of course, we also see this in the current situation in which we have focused on those 30,000 tests a day. But not only has demand just increased enormously, which means that you are ticking the max test capacity, but also all the excess capacity we would have wanted to achieve has been caused by a greater operational loss, by disappointing deliveries, at least supplies that you had hoped you could have contracted, but which just didn't work out, et cetera. In short, reality is just more uncomfortable than that. So I can't predict that. So what I'm doing for that reason is taking this apart. That app is the addition to the regular source and contact research. In doing so, the LCI Directive applies. That's just the professional directive. If the moment of introduction is there, it will simply be introduced on the basis of the then applicable LCI Directive. In addition, asymptomatic tests and added value are shown and currently viewed in a research setting. If this leads to an adaptation of the LCI directive, it simply does. So the app is introduced on the basis of the current LCI Directive. That's how I took these two trials apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u54	The Minister constantly says that we should not interfere with the LCI directive, but at the same time we are simply making choices that are motivated by scarcity. That's what makes it so complicated. Imagine if I took the plane to Sweden, sat there in a cabin on the moors and then returned to Schiphol. Then I get to pass the test street. But if I didn't sit at the Member's Restaurant for more than 15 minutes at that 1.5 meter with someone who downloaded the app and then I get a notification, then I shouldn't be tested. That means that it is more than just following a directive. Choices are made in scarcity. I just want to know from the Minister what consideration is being made and what logic is behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u55	Actually, two types of trade-offs. I find the one consideration more of virologists and epidemiologists. The other consideration is also a political one, and that is what I am interfering with. One consideration is: what choice has the most effect on stopping the infection chain? That too can be a choice in scarcity, namely: what is the most important thing to do? Of course, that's how it was in the spring. When there was still very little test capacity, first the high risk patients were tested. After that, for example, care workers were added. And then the teachers came along, because they had to get back to work. And that's how it's been expanded with a group. That was for the main reason: stopping the infection chain. But there's a second, and that's the social effect. That is no longer merely a medical consideration, but that is more a choice of social impact. Hypothetically, if demand is just structurally transcending supply, then you have to make choices. And, of course, I left that question with the OMT. Then you have to prioritize in who does and who doesn't. We have now said generously: testing everyone with complaints. It is my strong suspicion that there are a lot of people without complaints. Otherwise, that increase would never have been as fast as it has gone. Perhaps the trial with the app and the trial at Schiphol Airport contributed a bit to that, which created the atmosphere that you can also get tested if you don't have any complaints. What I've learned from that is that, now that demand seems to transcend supply so strongly, you might have to start prioritizing again. Then the question to the OMT is: how would you do that from infectious disease considerations, which groups are priority? Then the political-administrative question can still be: but teachers, for example? Even if you wouldn't necessarily prioritize them from the infectious disease chain, the societal impact of not being able to work for teachers can still mean that you want to test teachers as a matter of priority. The same is true of asymptomatic testing. Does asymptomatic testing generally prioritize symptomatic testing when there is scarcity? The answer is no. I don't actually see any expert doing that. When it comes to the effects of asymptomatic testing in a number of groups, opinions are now divided. That's what the pilot setting has to answer for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u56	But we're not philosophizing anymore. That app's coming up. In two weeks, that reality will be over and the test phase will be over. There are test streets at Schiphol Airport and there's scarcity. In short, what you are now philosophically putting on the table is already reality. My question is then very specific: what priorities are we going to make in this scarcity? Are we gonna hang on to the test streets, or are we gonna go with an app like that? Why have these questions not been answered in advance and why do we need to clarify this, a little philosophically in the debate? Because there is scarcity, the test phase is over and will be active soon. So these questions should have been answered now, or at least within two weeks, the moment you start your campaign, I download the app and I get a notification. Moreover, the people who have already downloaded it are also told: you must report. So that also means that that app is being modified.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u57	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u58	In short, why are there so many open ends while we are two weeks ahead of the launch of that app?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u59	Because otherwise we'd have to keep everything waiting for everything, and it can't be like that. So what we're doing is developing that app and testing it in practice. In that setting, we allowed them to coincide with the advice of the OMT to investigate whether asymptomatic testing is of added value. What I point out to you is that this is the maximum clarity that is to be given at the moment: that app will be introduced at the time of its introduction in accordance with the national LCI Directive. So if the choice has not yet been made that asymptomatic testing is of added value in this setting, then the app will be introduced in accordance with the then applicable directive, i.e. only somatic testing. If the choice has already been made and the directive has therefore been amended, then the new directive will apply, but my expectation is that it will apply not only to the app but also to the other contacts at that time, because it is actually a similar group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u60	I have four questions. Yeah, but there's scarcity. Surely it is in no way obvious that asymptomatic testing will be carried out? Surely we can draw that conclusion now because there is insufficient testing capacity? But what story do we have for people who are about to get a notification, who know that they have been around for 15 minutes with someone who has been tested and perhaps belong to the risk groups but should not be tested, just because we already know that there will be too few tests? That is a conclusion that we can already draw in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u61	You could do that if you had the choice today whether or not to introduce it nationwide. But the parliamentary debate is taking a little more time, so we are not faced with the choice today whether or not to introduce it nationwide. That'll be another time. So what I can't do for that reason is keep everything waiting for everything. So what I am saying is that we will introduce it in accordance with the national directive at that time. Two is the question: yes, but what then for those people who come forward as contact? Can they be tested or not? Of course, there is nothing more to this than at the moment for the people who come up with contact from the source and contact research. They can't be tested at the moment if they don't have any complaints. Only when they have complaints can they be tested. So I want to stress that the group that comes out as contact from the app is a group that you should actually look at in the same way as the group that comes out as contact from a source and contact research. It's actually the same kind of group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u62	I have to finish. Every time we ask questions about the source and contact research, it's not because we're trying to be annoying, but we try to keep understanding in society for what we're doing. I find it hard to explain that you can get tested at Schiphol Airport even though you've been in a cabin on the moors, but not when you get a notification that you've been around someone for 15 minutes, even though you want to, even though you're part of a risk group. We're two weeks ahead of launch, at least that's the schedule. These seem to me to be very essential questions that LCI should have answered by now and not in two weeks' time. This is constantly the case when we talk to the Minister about testing, capacity and source and contact research. There are a lot of questions and there is very little clarity. In doing so, there is also uncertainty towards society about what we are doing with each other. I'm very concerned about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u63	Don't get me wrong. I can really imagine Mrs. Kicken's questions. What I'm putting on the other side is that you have to weigh it up. If I had wanted to make sure, before I had even done that test with asymptomatic tests in the case of using the app, that the capacity absolutely allows it, we would not have started that test for the time being. Then perhaps we would never have known and then I would have had a very complicated debate here in the Chamber, because there are a lot of scientists who say: asymptomatic testing can be of added value. There's an OMT that says, "Go check that out." I should have said to you: yes, but I'm not doing it yet, because I'm not quite sure I can do that permanently, both in a trial and afterwards. That means that all the time, where you have no absolute certainty about how the future is going to develop, you still have to make choices. I think this is a responsible choice. Could I have operated on that, too? Of course that could have been done, but I have made this assessment, to at least do that test setting in an asymptomatic way, because I also want to learn what the added value is. I also see the added value of it, when you come into contact with it, that there is immediately an action perspective of testing. So that's what I'm sharing. I do say this: it also applies to the people who emerge from research into sources and contact. It doesn't apply to that yet, but maybe later. I also say that even the certainty about sufficiently guaranteed test capacity is, given the current world market, a certainty that you can have as much as possible, but which is never absolute, until the time when we have been able to do the risk spread in such a way that we have a lot of innovative test methods that are comparable in terms of reliability. Then there's something else. But right now, when we're working with those PCR tests and the whole world is doing so, there's such an extreme scarcity that supplies can just be disappointing, which means the capacity is still less than you wanted. It's not easy to influence the question, we've seen. From 100,000 two weeks ago to 160,000 now in the test streets of GGD's. In short, I fully understand the concerns or hesitations Mrs Kuik has. In fact, I'm actually sharing them. But I still think that the considerations as I make them now are the best way to go about it. There are also other options, but I think this is the best way forward, so we are actually saying that the national LCI directive currently in force applies when it is introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u64	I wonder whether the Minister is not making it much more difficult than it really is and using a lot of words, which he drowns in. There's scarcity. We all know that. You might actually think that you should try as the thunder to ensure that this scarcity is resolved, so that care personnel, teachers, but also people who have received a notification can be tested as a matter of priority. That is also the wish of society and this Chamber. If the minister said "we're gonna do something about this scarcity and we're gonna go in that direction," I don't think he's gonna hear us complain anymore. But he doesn't say that. We're all getting considerations over us. I have the same thing as Mrs. Chicken: I can't explain this either. I can't explain the differences. Why do you get to sit on a plane with a mouth cap and so on? We need to be able to explain all these equations, and I shall not be able to do so anymore. In the context of this confusion, I have already voluntarily downloaded the corona app. That app says, "What does it mean when you get a call? What can you do in this situation? If you have no complaints, do a corona test and stay home until you know the results." Why is that in the app?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u65	Because it is at the moment, in the trial phase in the east of the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u66	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u67	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u68	No, it's not at the moment. You're just saying we can't and we're not gonna do it like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u69	I'm just gonna do my best to explain it as best I can. We're in the pilot phase right now. The app hasn't been entered yet. We have said that before we go national, we will first discuss this law with each other in both Parliament's Chambers. So it wasn't entered. He will be tried out, because otherwise you won't be able to learn what you might need to change before you roll him out nationwide. That is why it is currently being tried in five GMD regions in the east of the country. The OMT has advised: Try out that app in such a way that you allow someone who comes out of that notification app as a contact to be tested immediately. That is good, because then we can also test the perspective of action and also see the added value of asymptomatic testing in this group. Wise idea, so that's what we're gonna do. However, we do not yet have the outcome of that test to determine whether it has added value. What we do now have is a great deal of concern about the scarcity of test capacity as a whole. Mrs Kuik rightly points that out, and she is also right to ask how to proceed in the future. Now, if you're going to roll out the app nationwide, are you going to test without complaints or test with complaints? Of this, I say that at that time it will be as the directive requires it. What is the determining factor in whether or not to amend the directive? The directive now states that the general policy is testing without complaints. What is the determining factor in this? That's one: did it have added value there in the east of the country on that app? And two: can we actually do that in terms of test capacity? Because priority will always be given to testing with complaints. As things stand at present, the national directive is testing without complaints, but we are now trying that app in a limited setting and testing without complaints is also possible. And the national directive will or will not be amended. In any case, I say that the national directive will be leading if we introduce that app. It is therefore possible that, if this directive has not yet been amended, we will be testing with the app only with complaints. It's possible. Then the question is whether that's bad. We also do it now for people who come forward from contact research, so it's not that bad, because it does stop the infection chain when you say to people: ooh, stay home, keep an eye on yourself and when you get complaints, get tested. That certainly helps, even now in the regular source and contact research.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u70	It hasn't gotten much clearer to me. Anyway, we're a little used to that. I'm just gonna sit back and wait for the moment that that app is gonna run and what it looks like. And then I hope that this sentence goes out of the app if it's not possible to test without complaints.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u71	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u72	Of course. That app will be adapted to the current situation. So if at that point the advice is: stay at home and get tested if you have complaints, then the advice in the app will also be adjusted accordingly. It is, of course, technically adapted to the directive in force just before it is introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u73	Mr Middendorp. With the foot pedal, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have asked the Minister in my speech, and hearing this debate, I ask you once again whether it is not very likely that it can be very useful to look a little longer at that asymptomatic testing in that app situation. I repeat this question on the basis of these interruptions. Secondly, and that is actually the question. The Minister refers to the LCI Directive. This is seen, among other things, on "has added value." I understand that. There are political choices. The Minister has talked about this in detail. But that LCI directive is based on models of virologists, epidemiologists and so on. I said in my contribution: I do not think we can rely on the assumption that the analogue regular source and contact research as we know it now is the same and will produce the same results as the new source and contact research via the app. The Minister just said that it is the same, but it is not, and that is going to come back in those models of the LCI directive. So I understand the Minister when he explains how these steps are being taken to arrive at an LCI directive. I also agree with the idea that this will be crucial in what action advice people are going to get through that app. I just want to point out to the Minister that it is a risky path if he assumes that sending digital action advice in contact research is the same as analog. Because I am almost certain that it is not, just because of the examples I have mentioned in my contribution. No telephone contact also means a personal contact and that is already a huge difference. And there are many other arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u75	A few points. One. I agree with you that this will have a different effect. I agree. But the question of drawing up an LCI directive is: in what risk situation should what legal advice apply? Both those who come out of the source and contact research and those who come out through the notification app, in both situations it is people who have been around for 15 minutes from someone who is infected, within 1.5 meters. These are actually the same parameters as those underlying the BCO Directive, based on international statistical assumptions on the risk of contamination. The same assumptions apply to both analogue contacts and digital contacts, one might say. For this reason, the same advice then applies; I would think from that logic. You then say: yes, but if they haven't been in contact with the GGD by phone, but only receive a digital advice, then you have to expect something different from those people in terms of their behaviour. I very much agree with you on that. That then says something about effectiveness. That is exactly what we are taking with us in the evaluation. I therefore honestly believe that we will overcome the differences as you see them with the evaluation. But where you might have to be right, is that more motivated by the logic of the infectious disease control: which risk contacts should do what to stop that infection?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u76	The Minister won't be explained. He won't be explained. Look, he's asking a lot of the people who're gonna download the app. At least I assume the Minister wants as much of the population as possible to use the app. Then I also think that these people should expect something back. And that's not happening right now. If you say to people "use that app and help fight the virus," then I also think you should offer people something when they get a report. Now that's settled well, in that trial. In the trial, it's clear: you get a report that you've been around for 15 minutes from someone infected with the virus. It's a big deal when you get a call like that. That's pressure on people, too. I think it makes a lot of sense for people to want a test. That is what is happening now, in those pilot regions. What's the Minister saying? "We're gonna introduce him nationwide and then we're gonna take out exactly that part." I don't think he's gonna get that explained. If you want that app to be used, you have to be consistent and say, "Here's the app. Get tested when you get a report, for your own reassurance, but also to stop the virus." Isn't it crystal clear that those two have to go straight on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u77	I agree with Mr Hijink in his speech. I would just like to put two considerations to that effect. One. If the scarcity at that time is such that you cannot do this, you will have to make another choice. So if you have scarcity, you have to prioritize what is most effective for fighting the virus. That's one. Two. Of course, we have a test setup right now. But if you introduce the app, you have to do so on the basis of the current directive at that time. That could indeed mean the following. Suppose you enter that app in mid-September and the directive at that time is "test without complaints." And the scarcity at that time has not led to a conclusion other than "testing with complaints." Yes, then the directive at that time is 'test with complaints'. And then you can ask: does it really make any sense? My answer is: yes, then it still makes sense; apart from the behavioral effect you can expect, it also makes sense for the faster and more complete picture of the contacts. So that makes sense anyway. Do people actually get a test when they get that report? No. In such a case, it would not be so at that time. But that's no different than in the regular BCO. If you now come forward as contact in the regular source and contact research, it is not that you can be tested immediately. Then you'll be advised to stay home for ten days. So we shouldn't be so special about that app. The app is an addition to the regular source and contact research, so what applies to the source and contact research should also apply to the people who use the app. That's really the best way to go. And at first it's really a professional idea what choice you make. Of course, we also have an opinion on this from the distribution of scarcity as politics, but initially it is a medical, professional view of who is priority, what is the effect of symptomatic or asymptomatic testing and what the added value is in a number of settings we are currently testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u78	Finally, Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u79	The Minister is now hiding behind directives again, and that frustrates me greatly. We have been discussing RIVM guidelines here for months, for example on protective equipment. Each time we were told that it was not possible in the context of the scarcity, that it was not necessary and that there was no need to wear protective equipment in the nursing home. By now we know: if only we had done it. The directive has now been amended and is recommended to carry protective equipment in areas at risk. Now really stop hiding behind the guidelines and use common sense. We want people to use that app, at least that's what the minister wants. Then you have to be consistent. It's not the same as the regular source and contact research. If you get a call from the G.D.D., you'll be told you've been exposed to someone with the virus there and there. That happened in a certain setting, at home, at work or at school. Then you can remember where you were then, but that's obviously not the case online. You're gonna get a call and then you're gonna have to wait and see where that happened. That's a real difference. If the minister wants to make that app a success, he must have something to offer people. Not only can you report that someone has been in the vicinity of someone who has the virus and then tell them to wait and see if they get any complaints. Why would people use the app if you only get a test if you have complaints? Then we don't need the whole app, do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u80	No, I don't agree with you. It could be of added value to have you tested as soon as you've had that notification on day seven after the last contact. That is why we are now testing the app in this way. I agree. I would point out that, within the framework of the directive, there is not necessarily a big difference between the contact that emerges from the source and contact research and the contact that emerges from the app. They're people who've been within five feet of someone who's been infected for at least 15 minutes. You say that an app like this doesn't make any sense if you just have to get tested if you have complaints. Then you could follow the same reasoning for the source and contact research. Of course it isn't. It makes sense to use that app to stop that chain of infections. You have to make sure someone who's been in contact with the virus actually stays at home. Then you can still have telephone contact with the GGD about this so that it is not just a digital notification. Just on the basis of that app, you can go back to the exact moment you were in contact with each other. You do not know the setting. That doesn't keep track of the app. The day on which that contact took place can be retrieved through the registration of the codes that have affected each other. In short, there is indeed a meaningful design for the use of that app, even if it cannot be tested immediately when you get a notification. You can do that. It will be examined whether it is of added value to do so immediately. Whether you can make that happen depends on the choices you have to make in scarcity. That's how it is. It's not easier than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u81	Let me make a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u82	Perhaps we should be informed again very quickly by means of a new OMT advice or something. I don't think it's explaining that you can get a test if you live in an area where there's hardly any infection and you report to the GGD with a snot nose. However, if you live in a region with a lot of infections and you've had a report, but you don't have any complaints yet, you can't get a test via the GGD. I don't think you're gonna get that explained, even though you still want people to actually use that app.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u83	I've been listening to the Minister very carefully. I think it's weird. I hear the Minister's answers. Then I look at the Lessons Learned: different or new. It says: faster and more large-scale testing of people who have been in contact with someone who is infected, even without having any symptoms or symptoms. And second point: direct access to tests when people have been in contact with index cases instead of only when signs and symptoms occur. When I hear the Minister's answer, I don't think we're ever gonna get enough capacity. We'll never wake up. We can talk about lessons learned, but if we don't have capacity, we can never put these things into practice. Are we consistent? We are right to test people in nursing homes as well as asymptomatic. Then why not other people? Other parties have said that there are more eligible professions, such as firefighters, teachers and conductors. All these people come into contact with other people a lot, but they're not a priority group. Again, I agree with you on the nursing homes, but why do you make that distinction? Do you think you'll ever recover with test capacity?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u84	It seems that the answer to that last question is simply "yes." For example, I am looking at the contract we concluded last Friday with a German laboratory. This leads to a delivery of 44,000 tests over the months. I look at the agreements with some major suppliers about materials for the most commonly used machines that rebuild in the coming weeks/months. Then there is no other way than that the capacity has to increase very considerably. In addition, a number of innovative testing methods are under development. We can also make use of this, especially in the situation of tests without complaints. So yes, the capacity is going to increase enormously. But so is the question. The demand is also going to rise enormously. We've seen how fast that can go. If possible, this is even more difficult to influence than the offer. The question is therefore even more difficult to influence if possible than the lab capacity you have to handle that demand. For now, it's about doing things in steps. Of course, I would have liked to be perfectly clear about what we would do now when it was introduced nationwide. But I can't give you that clarity for two reasons. One. The trial continues for longer than possible because the date of introduction has been postponed due to parliamentary treatment. This means that the test has not yet been completed and that the conclusions on value added have not yet been drawn on the basis of that test. Two. Even if the outcome would be positive, you might still have to say, for the sake of capacity, that it is better not to do so at the moment. That's why I'm taking these two things apart. Just let that investigation go, that's a good idea anyway. On that basis, let's draw the conclusion whether or not you want it in case contacts come out of the app. Let us decide on the introduction on the basis of the current directive. I think that's the best way to go. Of course, at that time, we will communicate very clearly to people what they do and what they cannot expect on the basis of the introduction of the app and whether or not they can get a test. We have to operate on that one step at a time. I don't think anything else is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u85	I hear the answer, but the problem is, of course, that this Minister has been promising this for months. It has been said for months that we are going to scale up the test capacity in such a way that we can cope with demand. I do indeed think that there are several parties who say that if we use the app, we will have even more testing capacity. So the catch-up we have to make is even more extreme. It's great that we can use German laboratories, although I actually think we should be able to do that ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u86	I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u87	But still: do you have any time limit in mind in which we can recover or use the time limit that we have set ourselves for testing people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u88	It depends on the question you are asking. In particular, the next few weeks will be the most tense in terms of available capacity, given the question as I see it now developing. You can also see that in the waiting times at the test streets. I hope there will be more air in a few weeks. We have, of course, also made the existing agreements for this. But I'm not going to link hard numbers to it, and I'm not going to link hard deadlines to it either, because by then, something new can happen in the execution. That is, of course, just the experience of this crisis: each time something new occurs in the implementation which is another setback for what you want. That is why I think it would be wisest to separate these two choices from the introduction of the app and whether or not testing. Otherwise, you will make everything dependent on everything, and if we do so in this crisis approach, we will never make any progress. So we have to take it one step at a time. The introduction of the app requires an anti-abuse clause. We need a good basis for this. That's what the law now before us is about. There's a trial going on right now. This test can go on a little longer because parliamentary treatment is taking a little longer. Not bad at all; then we're going to do it that way. By the time we are ready for national introduction, we are making up the mind: what is the current directive? This is how it will be introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u89	One more comment. I hope the Minister gets right with those few weeks. We've been hoping that for months alone. With all due respect, I really hope you're gonna make it happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u90	We're doing everything we can. They're working on it day and night.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u91	I've drawn attention to the large group of people who can't work at home. These include, for example, people who work in health care or education or who are self-employed and who are also dependent on not working at home for their income. I have asked about possible behavioural effects, but also about the consequences for society. In an influx of people from this group who are being tested, there will also be more self-insulation. This can have consequences for the continuity of our education. Can the lessons be continued? Can the care still be provided? Does anyone still have enough income? Has the cabinet considered the implications for this group? What's the message from the Cabinet for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u92	That happens in a number of ways. The first is that we must bear this in mind. I think that the digital side of it in particular should be taken into account in the ongoing evaluation. This could be a negative side effect. Imagine that there are a lot of contacts in the picture that you can actually say: have they really been contacts with a serious risk of infection or is that not so bad? Suppose that would be the effect we don't see, by the way, then combined with the quarantine obligation can indeed have a more negative effect on society than you really would like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u93	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u94	I think I have one more thing to do. You also have to lower the threshold to go into quarantine. This is, of course, also a responsibility of employers and employees. But a motion has also been passed asking the cabinet: what could you do to help people go into quarantine? I believe that's the motion on the quarantine package. We're in the process of carrying out that motion. I think I can get back to that by the end of next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u95	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u96	Then I'll go to the anti-abuse clause. A number of questions have been asked. Mr President, for the sake of encouragement, these were the most complicated blocks. The anti-abuse clause is perhaps the most important part of this bill, because it gives hands and feet to the will that we all have, that the app and the use of the app are absolutely voluntary. Both compulsion and urge are forbidden. So you have to take the anti-abuse clause widely. It concerns both direct and indirect obligation to use. That is how we read that provision. But let me go straight to Mr Hijink's amendment and now a number of other authors. It actually lifts the text from the explanatory memorandum to the legal text. That's how I read it. That might not be strictly legal-technically necessary, but if we want to emphasise with each other that there must indeed be voluntary use and that we interpret the anti-abuse clause in a broad way, then perhaps that is also a very nice reflection of the feelings of the Chamber, and thus in the most nailed way part of the legislative history. I think it is good to do so, so I would like to leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u97	Is it true that this is the amendment in part No. 13 is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u98	Yes, excuse me, this is indeed the amendment to item No. 13, in place of Amendment No 13, to replace Amendment No 13, to replace Amendment No 13, to replace Amendment No 13, to replace Amendment No 13, to replace Amendment No 13, to replace Amendment No 13, to replace Amendment No 13, to replace Amendment No 13, to Then the question is whether we can guarantee that it is not used for other purposes. The bill explicitly states that data processed within the framework of the CoronaMelder may not be processed for other purposes. This ban applies to everyone, including the public authorities, as well as to investigation and enforcement services. Many questions have been asked about the scope of the anti-abuse clause, but I think I have actually answered them all at once with my response to the amendment. Why is the hotline in the IGJ? That is because we thought it would be wise from a citizen's perspective to have at least one hotline. Then, of course, it's always a choice where you put it, but the choice has been made on the IGJ. Have we considered a lot of other options? Honestly, I don't even know. We have just dropped the choice on the IGJ, but it is a logical choice because this is an inspection that is close to the care and because there is enforcement under the Wpg. But if, for example, there is a dispute between employer and employees, then the Inspection SZW might be a more logical enforcer at that time. In particular, therefore, we want the citizen's point of contact to be clear, that is the Health Care Inspectorate, but then it may also need to make use of the opportunities that other enforcers have to act in an individual situation. That's the subject of conversation right now. The inspection will further elaborate on this in consultation with other enforcement services. In particular, we have driven from a citizen's perspective, so that he does not have to look for the window that could help him in his situation. Then there is the question of 50PLUS on the Dutch order of lawyers. This question was about maximum punishment. We have joined the penalty periods as set out in Article 67 of the Wpg. This is based on the Wpg. The aim is, of course, not to say that I believe that Mr Middendorp has said this very clearly in order to impose fines. The aim of this law is, first of all, to standardize, to standardize socially that we do want people to use the app, but that we do not want it to become mandatory. Mr Van der Staaij was right to point that out. That has also been a moving insight for me in the first few weeks. At first I thought that in order to achieve a certain degree of adoption, perhaps we should prescribe the app in a number of situations. Pretty soon I came to the conclusion that if we start pulling that end off the rope, the resistance will only grow. On the contrary, you want there to be no resistance, but rather social experience that this is of added value. Not only should you not want to think about this obligation for the time being, but also not want to think about it in the first place. You have to standardize that very clearly. In the first instance, therefore, it is about standards. But only normalizing without having teeth when it does, is the other extreme. This means that you have to organize those teeth and that you also have to organize a supervisor. That's where the punishment came from. By the way, it will always be determined by the Public Prosecutor's Office and ultimately by a judge. So the maximum penalty it will never be, is my estimate. What are the Minister's considerations about voluntaryism and what does he really think? That was Mr Van der Staaij's question. I've just said that a little bit. At first I thought it might be necessary, but later I thought: no, this is exactly the wrong way to create the enthusiasm for the app. So we need to be clear. The app must be voluntary. We will also emphasise this in communication; that was the next question. A uniform enforcement framework. The inspection is currently working out what enforcement looks like. That also has to do with which supervisor you are in any situation or that everything must be done by the IGJ. That is being further developed at the moment. I can very well imagine that at that time people are working out what the enforcement framework looks like. But it does depend very much on the situation. If something too enthusiastic has accidentally been exerted, you will, I presume, engage in conversation. If there is really a very nasty way of taking advantage, I think you're getting the enforcement tools out of the closet a little earlier. Of course proportionality is always part of maintaining it. What if employers ask employees not to install the app? That's an interesting question, too. Well, that could happen, too. The legal text is intended to exclude any form of pressure. Of course, it was initially thought of an obligation to use, but the law, in conjunction with the explanatory memorandum, actually excludes any form of pressure. This should also be the subject of this debate. Anyway, I think it's worth a conversation, so let's keep an eye on those signals. One can't be true, namely pressure to install the app, but the other can't be true either. The choice to install the app is explicit to people themselves. DENK and the SP are asking if I can rule out police and enforcement and intelligence services accessing the data. The answer is yes. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to tech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u99	A quick question. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u100	This was also about the anti-abuse clause. I asked about the government itself and whether it is possible for the LCI Directive to distinguish between people with the app and those who receive notification through source and contact research.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u101	Yeah, that's on its own possible. Of course, we have just had this whole debate about it, so I am afraid to go back to that again. But now, in practice, it is the people who emerge as contacts from the contact research. They're just being asked to stay home ten days since the last contact you had. And people who are now appearing in that pilot region in that app are asked to do so, but they are offered a test on day seven after the last contact. So now that distinction is made. That is now in a pilot stage, so it is not yet in the LCI directive. It seems to me to be the most logical thing to do in terms of substance if these two groups are to be treated equally. But if you ask me whether it is technically or legally possible to make a distinction in the LCI directive: yes, because that is what is most important from the point of view of disease control. And in that light, you may distinguish between one group and the other group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u102	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u103	Yes, Mr President, but I think this is an important point. Because it's not about, say, on the one hand the group of people who downloaded an app and on the other hand all the other people. It concerns people, groups of people, who are informed that they have come into contact with an infected person. In one case, the means is the source and contact research, and in the other case the means is the app. And now the Minister says, yes, if the drug is the app, then you may also be offered a faster test. And it's possible to make a distinction, so people who get a notification through the source and contact research won't get that opportunity to do a test without symptoms. Then the government itself makes a distinction based on the app, namely in the ability to test. And I don't think this should be possible, because then there is still a reason, namely: if you want you to be tested, then you have a good reason to download that app. I think this is really undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u104	No, you're very much reasoning from a "say" "Awb" look, a legal look, from a kind of General Law treatment-like way of looking. But this LCI directive is a medical directive. So it makes sense for a medical directive to take a situational view of what is most effective in the context of infectious disease control, in this case, as you also allow different treatments for different patients. Then you never look at: is this right, because you should really have the right to exactly the same thing. No, because in different situations you should be able to apply something different depending on the effect you can expect from it. This is how the LCI Directive was drafted, and that is a professional directive. But I'm just an amateur, and we are, I think, all of them. We've become more and more informed amateurs, but when it comes to virology or epidemiology, I think we're all thinking from that angle. But if, with you, I think out loud about whether it would make sense to make a distinction in that, I would think: no, because they are actually in the same way in the picture. At least they have come under the same definition in another way, namely: they are people in the app as well as in the regular source and contact research who have been wrong with someone who has been infected within 1.5 meters for fifteen minutes. So it's the same group with a similar risk of infection. And because that is the case, I think it is perfectly logical that the LCI Directive should always provide the same advice for action, namely: whether or not testing without complaints. And at the moment, it is action advice that is offered: testing without complaints. And of course we also have the research setting that we are currently using, and in that research setting asymptomatic testing is tried out for that app group. This has not yet led to an amendment of the directive. That might be possible, but it seems to me in itself logical that the same choice should be made for both the app group and the regular contacts. But what's the big deal there? That is where the deciding factor is: what is the most logical thing to do from the point of view of disease control?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u105	Good. Yes, Mrs. Buitenweg, I...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u106	Yes, I know, Mr. Chairman, and after this, I will stop. But this is an important point. And fortunately it was answered more firmly in the technical briefing earlier and I believe that in the written reply too. But I was afraid the minister would come back here and skip something. He said again later that there is hardly any possibility that we could be treated unfairly. I really want to call him to that, because otherwise I think that there is an indirect preference for the group that has the app, because they can then test earlier. So I would like to ask the Minister to be a little stricter on this and to ensure that the government does not implicitly favour the people who have downloaded an app, compared to the people who are in the picture through the source and contact research.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u107	Yes. A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u108	I understand you're setting that link. I don't mean to make that link. You are asking whether it is possible under the LCI directive. Then I say, yes, that's possible. We've now decided that we need to be able to test these nursing homes asymptomatic in the event of an outbreak. Then we don't talk about favoring those people either. Then we talk about what would be most effective in the context of the fight against infectious diseases. That's how this needs to be looked at. But I get your point that you wouldn't, unintentionally, want to favor the app users with that. On the other hand, that is what the guidance group recommends. That is precisely what Mr Hijink is saying: that you should also want to reward those people for using the app. With that it is possible to test if you have complaints just a very nice way of rewarding. Those are the considerations you have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u109	I think you've come to the last part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u110	Yeah, we're gonna dive into technology together. A lot of questions have been asked. That's going incredibly deep into technology. I'm gonna do my best. It concerns in particular Google and Apple and its user conditions. The exchange of these bluetooth codes, even if the CoronaMelder is not open, only works if it is made possible on the phone. That's what the framework of Google and Apple is about. If they hadn't, you wouldn't have been able to build this app this way, so with a decentralised data storage, where the data stays on the phone. You wouldn't have been able to build that if Apple and Google hadn't taken that step that API hadn't made. Only governments can make use of this. That's a second important guarantee, I think. Apple and Google will not be compensated for this. That's important, too. The notification of a contact and the reporting of a positive test are only done in that CoronaMelder. That doesn't happen with Google or Apple. It only happens in the CoronaMelder. That's important, too. Before we could use that API, we had to sign user conditions with Google and with Apple. Those user conditions explicitly stipulate that Google and Apple do not process personal data. We have accepted those user conditions. In short, it shouldn't be. Google and Apple should not allow us to send personal data that way. Of course, we don't want that either, but it shouldn't be in accordance with the user conditions with Google and Apple. In addition, we have had our own source code double-checked on whether we really do not. Are you sure there's nothing wrong with data that way? The answer is no. Imagine if Apple and Google didn't comply with those user conditions. I really have no reason to believe they wouldn't. They would give themselves an extremely bad name. But imagine if they do, then they can be addressed to the contract law, but also to the GDPR. Both the AP and the ACM can impose heavy fines. At the same time, it would be a real criminal offence for European law and would also be enforceable. I think that's enough reason to assume it's a mustache. In addition, we have asked a number of additional questions. That is also an answer to the question that Mr Verhoeven asked, I think, namely what the exact agreements are with Apple and Google, on top of signing those user conditions. So what does it mean that they will continue to develop their exposure framework? How can we rely on data not only not now, but also in the future, to be used in a different way? That's not personal data. But can't they make profiles or whatever? Those exact appointments with Apple and Google are public. The exact location of these agreements is set out in section 3.1 of the note following the report, on page 24. It actually says that we welcome the development of the API and the app to make it even safer. We are constantly talking with European colleagues about this with Apple and Google to make it work even better and safer. There is currently no reason to assume anything other than that Apple and Google will act in the same way. Then there's one more thing. The source code of that API has been made public. It is also being reviewed by the European Commission. That too should be a safety issue. In short, all safety posts have really been considered on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u111	I'd still like to talk about that API. While we are diving into the technique, it is an essential part to make sure that the app is safe. You say that it should not be used by companies and organisations, but that was agreed by Apple and Google. Why do we not make this explicit in this law? Apple and Google can say that now, but later they can say something else. So why don't we explicitly state ourselves that this is a possibility? Then I have a second question about the API. It is said that only public administrations can use this API. What about the intelligence services? Are we gonna rule out any of this? How do we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u112	The goal-binding has, of course, already been expressed quite clearly. So, of course, that's already out of the question. There's only one goal, and that's infection control. Looking at the law in which we replicated the data base, an average legislative lawyer will frown on how detailed it is written for what purpose and for what purpose the data division should not be used in this case. This is obviously not the case for intelligence services or other public bodies. That's really only for the purpose of anti-infectious disease control. That's razor-sharp and seamlessly displayed. There's really not a word of Spanish in there. Potential data provision from that app towards Google and Apple is not happening. That's what we've been testing. We had that code checked independently to make sure it doesn't happen. In addition, we signed with Google and Apple that this is not happening. Those are also the terms of use. If it were to happen by mistake, we would violate our terms of use, but so would they. That would be a breach of contract law. It's just... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... Moreover, Apple and Google's source code is available to the Commission and is being examined by the Commission on behalf of the EU Member States. I think that's what's really close.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u113	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u114	There is another amendment tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Van der Graaf. That is a very complex amendment which I had to study. It says that personal data should never be traced back to the person concerned. You can of course first enter into a dispute about whether it is actually personal data or not. Anyway, once you've settled that dispute, it's obviously necessary that there's non-redirectibility. I have been told that the way in which the work process has been reduced corresponds to the legal provision proposed here. I would therefore like to leave the opinion on this amendment to the House. Then it is very clear that the IP codes are separated from the other codes, the TEKs and DKs used. Thus, there can never be any traceability to the person level. Ms Van den Berg referred to the Minister's statement that Google is going to modify the site consent notification in the next update and asked if the Minister can indicate when that will be changed and whether the national roll-out of the app can also take place if it has not yet been modified. In Android 11 this will be solved. That version is currently being tested. When that version is ready, it cannot be said at the moment, but as in the other ten EU Member States that preceded us, the CoronaMelder can simply be introduced nationwide. For Android and therefore for Google it has to be clear that that app doesn't know where you are. That app doesn't really know anything. It's actually quite a stupid thing. He doesn't know who you are or where you are. He doesn't know who you've been in contact with or where you've had contacts with. Actually, he doesn't know much. All he does is occasionally spout and exchange codes. They can at some point find that one phone was in the inside pocket of someone who was infected and that the other phone was in the inside pocket of someone who was very close to it. That's all!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u115	I didn't have any concern that the app would know that either. The conclusion is that the app doesn't know where you are, but Google still knows in these situations. So I thought I'd take care of that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u116	This is because of all the other apps that people freely install, which are less critical than this app, also in terms of data sharing and location facilities. Then there is Mrs van den Berg's amendment on interoperability and the digital international exchange of data. Especially in the border region it would be great if the German app and the Dutch app could talk to each other. These are also developed together, with them by Deutsche Telekom and with us more with a team in their own house. But they have the same technique. All exchanges have been made. It seems logical to me that we should do everything in our power to do so. I believe that the Council of State has also advised that provision to be made. That is actually what this amendment does. So I am also going to leave this amendment to the House's discretion. Mr President, I think I have answered most of the technical questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u117	I see Mrs. Van Esch. Has there been a question in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u118	The question about the 57 hours and the update we saw this morning. I asked to what extent that is true and whether that can be confirmed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u119	The question is about the update that undos the problem that you have to open your app all the time, isn't it? Yes. The CoronaMelder works on most Android phones that use version 6 or newer. Battery saving settings on some phones do not often check whether new codes of infected persons have been published. Bluetooth will then remain active, recording meetings on phones. Only checking the codes of infected persons on the server does not happen or with delay. This problem in technology is internationally known. There is also contact with Google for a solution. For now, if this is the case, it is advisable to open or update the app daily. But there has been an update this morning and there are still updates coming that would have to fix the problem completely. I think it's been fixed in most cases with that update this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u120	I was wondering when the questions I asked about Apple and Google will be answered. They don't necessarily fall under the heading of technology. But I can wait a little longer, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u121	I was actually assuming that I would have answered those questions myself. So I guess you'll have to mention them for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u122	Then I will, because I have the impression that the questions have not yet been answered. I have made quite a big point of the fact that Apple and Google have actually determined the conditions under which cooperation is being carried out with the Netherlands and with the Dutch government and that they decide when the app can be turned off. What my group would like is that the Netherlands will simply make agreements with Google and Apple that the release of that app can happen, for example, at the request of the Dutch government. So the moment you, as the VWS Minister, think it's going all the way in the wrong direction and you actually want that app turned off, they have to listen to you. That's what it's supposed to be. This simply requires further agreements with Google and Apple. I would very much like the Ministry and the Dutch government to consult with Apple and Google to make clear agreements on this, including under what conditions, what conditions and how it is communicated to users. I'm saying I have a motion on this in my back pocket. I really think that's very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u123	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u124	Let me get this straight. When it comes to working the API, it is built into Google and Apple's operating system. So that, on the side of Google and Apple, is the possibility to say or not to say: we will continue to do so. This app is of course a Dutch initiative. It is also up to the Netherlands to either leave that app in the appstore and offer it for use or to stop that app and its use. That's up to us. So what further arrangements would be needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u125	There are actually two things here. You got the app. That's what the U.S. Secretary of State is about. And you have the framework, that exposure notification framework that belongs to Apple and Google. That's theirs. But that app, of course, is completely dependent on that technique. And that's what they're about. The Christian Union very much wants us to have control in the Netherlands that that app can be deported regionally for our country, that the minister can make that request to Google and Apple, that they will follow it up and that we are not dependent on Apple and Google whether they feel like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u126	I think the Minister understands the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u127	I think so, but I still wonder if there's really a problem here. That framework is just a framework and you may or may not need it. That can or cannot be used by an app that uses it. Google and Apple have said that not market players but only governments can deliver apps that can use them. That's the deal we made with Google and Apple. We have a two-sided arrangement. The software can of course change in the operating system and therefore that API can be revoked by Apple and Google. And we can withdraw our app ourselves. If we withdraw our app, there is no app in the Netherlands that works on that API anymore. If Google and Apple withdraw their API, our app will no longer work. Can we also force a change in Apple and Google's operating system? I don't think so, which seems illogical, but it doesn't make any difference, de facto, to the situation you're describing. Because what you're afraid of is, suppose we think it's going the wrong way, but we won't get that changed. That situation cannot arise, because we can withdraw our app ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u128	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u129	The underlying concern and the focus that I place here is actually just control of the Dutch government. The Minister may withdraw the app, but the Minister just indicated that there could be all kinds of changes in that Apple and Google network. That is exactly another concern that I have placed here. We need to follow that closely. If that goes some way we don't want, then we need to be able to address Apple and Google. Those agreements are not in the terms accepted by the Dutch government. There will simply have to be further agreements on this. I can imagine that ministers at European level will talk about this with Google and Apple, but further agreements need to be reached.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u130	Yeah, I get that very well, because that has to do with the development side. So if Apple and Google would develop that API in a way that we would say "no, because then it no longer meets what we require, to we want at the level of privacy, security, protection or whatever," then you must have something to say about it. That is how the agreements have been made. When it comes to the view of the source code, we are moving in a European context in order to be able to monitor on that side what that source code looks like and what risks it might pose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u131	Mrs Van der Graaf, your last comment on this point, because you have a motion and you also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u132	Then I'll launch it here anyway. I think it's just important that you can also go a step further and that, if you want to take away the concerns that live with your residents about this, that framework can eventually go off your phone. So I'll come up with a motion and we'll talk about it in the second term. I really want to give an assignment to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u133	I had asked another question about the total relative uncertainty I have called 'cumulative uncertainty'. This shows that there are different parameters and that in all these parameters there is a small uncertainty. During the technical briefing it appeared that only at the point of distance it was admitted that there was 10% uncertainty, but this minister has to oversee the whole project. So I'd like to get another answer to the question: what is the total relative uncertainty?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u134	I don't think you can calculate that that way, but you're absolutely right that when you work with bluetooth there's always some uncertainty. What I understand is that the numbers are so that you could say 90% that is within 3 meters and that you could say 70% that is within 1.5 meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u135	This isn't what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u136	What exactly do you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u137	Before we continue for another fifteen minutes: that is only about the distance and we discussed it extensively during the technical briefing. That's obvious. But there are other parameters, and there are also uncertainties. For example, I refer to the PCR test.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u138	But that's another very different debate when it comes to the PCR test.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u139	No, that's not another debate. It's also about the duration. There are four or five different parameters and there are all uncertainties. The distance is clear. That's 10%, and that's a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u140	Of course there are uncertainties, but there are always uncertainties. Not just through the app, we need to get these contacts on the screen. They're common in the human world, too. So the moment you have a contact investigation, there's also uncertainty: is it actually complete? Then there is also uncertainty about the question: are you sure it was and that that was the day you got that infection? So those uncertainties are always in the ordinary life. Can a test also have a false negative or a false positive result? Yes, of course, although the PCR test has enormous reliability, especially in the Netherlands, given the way we monitor it. Especially if you compare it with all kinds of quick tests, the PCR test has a huge reliability. But is there any chance of false positives? Yeah, there is. If you add all those opportunities and all the relativity together, then it could indeed be that there are contacts in the picture where it would not actually be necessary. That's right. That's true, but that's true at all. This is true in the analogue world, in the ordinary human world, and therefore also via the digital way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u141	There's no point in this. This is a very strange excuse: because there are uncertainties in the great evil human world, you also have uncertainty here. No, that's not what I mean. I mean, there's a bit of uncertainty in all these different parameters. I want someone to oversee cumulative uncertainty. Apparently that doesn't happen, because in the big evil human world we always have uncertainty. Then it's really gonna stop. Then we have an app with a lot of uncertainties here, and apparently we are not interested in it, because something can always go wrong with a PCR test or distance. Fine, but let's leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u142	Too bad, because I think it's pretty clear. There is also always openness about the fact that it is sometimes a statistical assumption. We know very well the reliability of the PCR test. That reliability is just high, so that's where the relative uncertainty plays a little less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u143	Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u144	With regard, for example, to source and contact research, that fifteen minutes is of course a statistical approach, because you can also infect someone in one second. So with those 15 minutes, you've got the bulk of the people infected. Hence the fifteen minutes and hence the 1.5 meters. That can also be 1 meter or maybe 2 meters, but within that 1.5 meter you really get the bulk of the potential infections. So you opt for a statistical approach. When you add up everything, you come to the conclusion that you might also come into the picture, when there's actually not a very good chance that you're infected. That's right, but you also know that you've got the bulk of the infections, and that's what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u145	I think you're done. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u146	I think so, but I'm just checking to see if I've had all the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u147	No. That is a good question, because I believe that the amendment to item No. 8 not yet discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u148	Is that the amendment on evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u149	It is an amendment by Mr Van der Graaf and Mr Verhoeven. That's been discussed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u150	That amendment did, but I thought that the amendment on the evaluation period still had to be discussed. I would like to leave that to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u151	Okay. What number is that? I hear that's the amendment to item No. 8 is. I just mentioned that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u152	That term goes from six to three plus three.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u153	If the MPs don't say anything, it's true. Or doesn't it make sense? Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u154	It is about the amendment to which the President refers. It's about the duration of the law, to shorten it to three months.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u155	Yes, that is the amendment in part No. 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u156	Yeah, exactly. I would like to leave that to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u157	Mrs. Van der Graaf looks very happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u158	I can also argue it very extensively, but perhaps that is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u159	No, it's okay. Thank you very much. We actually had in the planning that it would take up to 15.45 hours, but we have now arrived at the second term of the Chamber. I am looking at Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This app we discussed today doesn't exactly have a happy history. I think everyone's agreed on that by now. In recent months, the SP has been rather surprised at how things have developed. The app had to be fed with steam and boiling water. The coalition even wanted to bring the Chamber back from recess to deal with it just a week earlier. That was strange, especially when you consider that at the end of June this minister gave the order to close the source and contact investigation. At the moment, the test capacity is not in order. At the same time, the SP Group thinks that speeding up an app that we still have to wait and see what it is going to do is a strange course of action. The effects of the app are unknown. It's an experiment in that respect. I hope the Minister will acknowledge that it is an experiment. When I look around like that, I find that nobody really wants to be in this app. We can see that, too. We're doing it because we hope it can contribute, but we have to wait and see if it will. If Mr Verhoeven has anything to say, I suggest he come to the microphone, then everyone can hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u161	Well, so far, he's been very quiet about what he's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u162	We can keep it that way. Mr President, then the anti-abuse clause. I am glad that the Minister supports our amendment on that point. It is good that it is tightened up and that it becomes clear that compulsion and urge when using the app are absolutely forbidden. Finally, the testing. We've talked about that extensively. What happens when people get a report that they've been around someone infected? People get a call, and then what happens? What stings us is that the Minister does not make it clear that people can get a test at that time. The SP thinks that if you want people to use that app, you should also have something to offer. Not only support, but also the possibility to apply for a test. For the personal reassurance of people, but also to break the chain of infections as quickly as possible. That is why I would like to table the next motion, and that concludes me. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a notification via CoronaMelder after contact with a person infected with COVID-19 may have an impact on the recipient of that notification;]] [[Whereas the use of CoronaMelder can become more effective when people who receive a notification can also apply directly for a corona test;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the testing policy at the same time as the national introduction of CoronaMelder so that anyone who has received a notification via CoronaMelder can be tested for the virus as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Hijink, Mr Sazias, Mr Kuik and Mr Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35538-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u163	Mr. Chairman. Despite today's conflict, 50PLUS has confidence in this app. We also have confidence that everything has been done to ensure privacy. However, we do believe that we should work as quickly as possible towards the possibility of testing in case of a notification. That is why I have also warmly signed Mr Hijink's motion. I would just like to point out to the Minister that he says with great ease: you will only have to stay home for ten days. I hope he realizes that a lot of people can't afford it that easily. We think he should take that into account. Finally. Every bit helps. This corona app is not the solution, but all the bits help. We have to take all the things with us. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u164	Thank you, Mrs Sazias. Mr Van der Staaij has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u165	Madam President. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I have already indicated in the first period that we are in favour, sympathetic to this bill, precisely because it wants to provide legal guarantees and to anchor the voluntary use of the app. We think that is a good thing. We also thank the Minister for his positive response to a number of amendments, including Mr Hijink's amendment which I signed with a number of colleagues. In this, we are formulating the anti-abuse clause even more broadly, in line with what was stated in the explanatory statement, namely that it is not just a matter of direct obligation but also of all kinds of indirect obligation. Thank you, too, for that positive attitude. If these amendments are adopted, the SGP Group will also support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u166	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u167	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the many questions we have asked. First of all, I would like to correct one point. Mr Verhoeven, but also the Minister, present this law as a technical matter. The law provides guarantees, and that's why you should be in favour of this law, but we see this legal treatment as the only chance the Chamber has of expressing its opinion on that app. If you ask me, you vote for this law if you're in favour of the app, but if you're against the introduction of the app, then you're voting against the law that's in place right now. If you say you're in favour of the law, but want to keep following the app critically in the next few weeks, you'll first put yourself out of business and hope to be able to influence you. That seems very unwise to us. Let's talk about the content. It bothers me that this minister is still so easily ignoring the social consequences this app may have. These social consequences have been highlighted by almost all parties and they have been explicitly called for, but the answer is that this would be "a useful tool" and "we will see it." "We'll just do it and see how it goes." I find that really worrying, because this app does have a lot more impact on society, and we really should not underestimate it. I also find it very worrying how the Minister ignores the lack of effectiveness of this app. Indeed, the only controlled environment in which we tested that app still shows that 59% of the notifications were wrongly issued and 27% of the people who needed to be notified were not reported at all. It's really not that all bits help if more than half of the bits are just wrong. I think we're just further away from home with this app. I would therefore like the Minister to give further thought to this, because we do not believe that this has been done sufficiently in the first period. I'm gonna wrap it up, 'cause I see my counter running. It's good to hear that there's still an update for getting those contact codes, but I still find it complicated that we're going to vote on an app tomorrow if we don't even know if this crucial issue has been solved. I think it is essential that we should know that by tomorrow. Is it true what was said this morning, namely that that error in that app will be corrected? And when will that mistake be corrected, because that can't really be the case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u168	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got a lot of time all of a sudden! I'm not used to that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u170	It's very convenient for you to say that, because we're gonna straighten that out. Okay, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u171	Yeah, now it's gonna be a whole lot less. No, seriously. I am still not confident that the overall relative uncertainty is in the picture and I do not believe that the Minister has understood what I mean by it. That's why we're making a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that uncertainties exist with regard to various parameters the corona app uses, such as distance, duration, contamination of the PCR test, i.e. obstacles and environment;]] [[Whereas it is important to know the cumulative uncertainty in order to establish the reliability of the app;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the cumulative uncertainty of the Corona app and to report back to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35538-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u172	I had three minutes in my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u173	I know, but I'm doing two minutes by default.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u174	Then I have to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u175	It's preemptive. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u176	Preventive? Ah! Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has taken a while and I have also argued in my contribution that it is far from ready. Well, it's nice that this law is there now and that we've treated it now. I would also like to thank the Minister for replying here. But this is really different from a normal law. As I said, there is still a great challenge in the implementation to ensure that all this is done properly. The first phase will focus on unforeseen side effects, especially when it comes to source and contact research, testing and behavioural effects. I also think it's a little complicated to talk about "the effectiveness" of that app. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a notification application, the CoronaMelder, is being used in the fight against the COVID-19 epidemic;]] [[Whereas users of the CoronaMelder are sent an action advice which may affect people's behaviour;]] [[Whereas, for the first time in this way, a digital device is used in the control of a virus and this may lead to unexpected negative effects for the current regular source and contact research, the available test capacity and other unexpected negative behavioural effects among users of the Corona Melder;]] [[Calls on the Government to include additional criteria in the review protocol for the announced ongoing evaluation to allow the identification of the above-mentioned possible adverse effects of the CoronaReporter in a timely manner, so that they can be adjusted accordingly;]] [[calls on the Government to include at least criteria on the impact of the CoronaMelder on the policy and capacity of the regular source and contact research and on the policy and capacity of the testing, as well as on the test readiness and quarantine readiness in the first phase after launch, monthly monitoring and reporting as often as possible in the first weeks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Middendorp, Van den Berg, Van Haga, Van der Graaf and Buitenweg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35538-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to inform the Minister that employers' phones may be theirs and that the answer to the question'may employers oblige employees to install or not to install them' may still be interesting from that point of view. But I would also like to take into account the point made by the Minister, namely that the purpose of this law and the anti-abuse provision is not to distribute as many fines as possible, but that it is about that standard and that it can be enforced. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas this bill to combat abuse of the Corona app introduces a new criminal offence for citizens and businesses;]] [[Whereas uniform, reasonable and appropriate enforcement of the anti-abuse clause is important for legal certainty and social support;]] [[Whereas the Government indicates that it is engaged in discussions with supervisors on how to maintain the new anti-abuse clause;]] [[calls on the government to reach agreements with supervisors based on the assumption that a possible offender of the anti-abuse clause will first receive a warning call, unless there is malpractice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Middendorp and Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35538-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u178	The essence of the law is that it must be very clear and that there can be no abuse. However, openings are now all being offered. I don't see them at the corona fines, by the way. That is a very high punishment that can be equally distributed. As soon as it's about a company, the VVD says we should take another look at that. It is crucial that we make it clear that it must not be abused. The judges or supervisors always look at proportionality. That's their job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u179	Yeah, I agree. We also agree on the anti-abuse clause. I agree that the aim is to ensure that this is done properly in a uniform framework. I want the Minister to discuss that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u180	I was glad we were going to a conclusion, but it doesn't look like we have. Mr Verhoeven and then Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u181	Mr Middendorp has always said that he agrees with everyone on all the questions relating to the scope of his motion and the previous story about the imposition of fines. However, he submits a motion that clearly drips off that a company does not receive a fine when it does something. I think that's a little double. It seems like some kind of motion for a resolution, but in the Chamber he says: no, we all do not want that. The SP, together with Van der Staaij, has tabled an amendment which goes completely against this motion. This is a big deal. It's really going both ways now. I think that Mr Middendorp really needs to be clear about what he means by his motion. I just don't understand. I have the feeling that Mr Middendorp says: it should be a bit like that a company can get away with it if it is going to push a little bit. I do not like the packaging of this communication. That should not be the thrust of the motion, because then it really is not going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u182	It's not, but we're about to repeat ourselves. I also gave Mr Verhoeven an example last time. Then he also got the feeling that something was happening that he didn't like. The explanatory memorandum also refers to other digital means. That is very broad; that is a grey area. We need to be very sharp on that. It has to go well in enforcement. That is why I tabled this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u183	Can I then ask whether the VVD still intends or intends to support the amendment we tabled together with the SGP, the Christian Union and the Animal Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u184	I heard the minister. It's actually lifting up a piece of the explanatory statement to the law. I looked at the amendment during the debate. I think it looks good. I think we can support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u185	But Mr Verhoeven has a point. You can't do both. You can't say on the one hand...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u186	Mr Verhoeven has already said that. You were only allowed to ask one question about the motion. I see Mrs Van den Berg at the microphone, but her name is under the motion if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u187	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but I would like to say a few words. It is precisely a question of creating more clarity. All our support for the...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u188	No, no, no, Mrs. Van den Berg. Your name is under the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u189	I thought it was a good addition by Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u190	No, I didn't hear that one. Thank you, Mr. Middendorp. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u191	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you also to the Minister for answering the questions. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the crux of the law is that there can be no abuse. That's what I read in the text. It shouldn't be against you if you don't download the corona app or you do. That is also a reaction towards the colleague of the Party for Animals. You can say what your argument is to be against it. You're welcome. You can't put someone else on the spot that this shouldn't be an argument to be for something. It's actually in the text. I'm a little more positive about it. We are going to follow the CoronaMelder critically, but it is important that there is a framework of protection to ensure that it cannot be abused. I also keep a close eye on the government. We were just discussing whether testing could be made easier for some people through a directive, for example if you downloaded the app. I will follow that critically to ensure that no improper distinction is made. My question whether it is true that people are actually warned twice has not yet been answered. So if you have both an app and come forward in source and contact research, you are warned in two ways. That also means that if you only get the app notification, you didn't come up in the source and contact research. I also asked how big the increase in the number of tests was. Each time the Minister replied: at least 0.2%. In the introduction, I said that I do not want to know what it is at least, but what the Minister is taking into account. Or is it a little "God bless the grip"? Finally. This is a special situation. We really need to avoid thinking very easily in the future: handy, such an app, we're going to do that again. Mr Van der Graaf has asked a number of important questions about the underlying system, i.e. the exposure notification framework. I think it is important to see what its meaning is. What can the tech giants do with it? What is our impact on the situation a few months ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u192	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I now give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for explaining and explaining a number of things. It's not black and white, it's not perfect and it's not fixed either. It's a process in which we're going to see what it's gonna be like over the next few months. We have put under a law there today which at least gives the assurance that the way the app is going to be viewed and handled by all of us is orderly, safe and reliable, without knowing what it's going to look like. I think that was well explained by the Minister. I found his explanation of how we deal with the limited test capacity and the additional information provided by the app, at least sufficient. I could handle it. This has also reduced the app a little bit to what it should have been from the start. The Minister himself has said something about this: an addition to the total repertoire of stuff, possibilities, agreements, rules and techniques that we have to reduce the virus as much as possible. It's not a perfect cure. It's a supplement. It is an additional source of information from which any Dutchman can determine whether or not he wants to use it. Does it have any added value? Yeah, probably. Is that added value big? Maybe not as big as we might want, but at least everyone can decide that for themselves. I think it is very important that we increase the test capacity as much as possible and that we keep a close eye on the app over the coming months, including the undesirable aspects and dimensions. I am pleased that the Minister has left our amendment to the Chamber. Redirectivity is an incredibly important point for me. That's exactly what we shouldn't have. That this is also in the law gives me comfort. I would like my name to come under his amendment, if Mr Hijink would allow it. I do not know whether I can arrange this or whether I should ask him via e-mail, but at least I said it. The motion of the VVD has made me very much in favour of that amendment. I do not want to see an urge or a secondary, indirect urge exerted on people in any way. I would like to say the following to the Animal Party. I don't think the app is perfect. That's why I think this law is so important. So I don't follow the reasoning that if you're against the app, you're also against the law and that if you're in favour of the app, you're also in favour of the law. No, it's almost the other way around: if you have any doubts about the app, at least you have to support this law. That would be my advice to your group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u194	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u195	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. I said in my first term that we intend to give this app the benefit of the doubt. In any case, the most important preconditions are privacy, open source, A number of amendments have been tabled which have been given the Chamber's opinion and which will pass. That only makes the legislation better, I think. Now we need to evaluate and monitor whether it actually has an added value. Not for nothing have I asked specifically: who ultimately determines what we are going to put the test capacity on? Does it then make sense to give priority to people who have had a notification in a test street or not? That only requires one thing: the test capacity must be raised to the left or to the right as much as possible. It is also a question of how much people have confidence in the government. People face very complicated choices, for example, when a lot of reports or lots of false reports come in and when we ask people to stay home while they have a vital profession. And if we ask people to stay home, how long will you be home? That could be ten days. If you have your own business to run, or you're a zzp'er, or you have a zero-hour contract, you're going to face very complicated choices. Not having the certainty that you're allowed to take a test like that undermines trust. Then maybe an app will do more harm than good. I don't think that's the point. So we're gonna keep the finger on the wrist. Let's hope the app actually helps.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u196	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jansen on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions in the first term. However, there is one question that he has not yet answered, namely the question about Ireland. There the app was downloaded in the first week by more than 1.3 million people, but in the past period it has been deleted 500,000 times. I'd like your response to that. The question was also: how do you see this in relation to the situation in the Netherlands? Do you think there could be a similar development here? In addition, I have already made it very clear in the first period what the PVV's position on the legislative proposal is at present. That hasn't changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u198	Thank you, Mr. Jansen. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We would also like to thank the Minister for answering all the questions. We also welcome the Court's opinion on the amendment on interoperability, so that we can also cooperate with other European countries. That is very important for the border regions. It is often said that the venom is in the tail. As far as we are concerned, that is the whole communication at the launch of the app. On the one hand, therefore, I will give my group a positive opinion on the SP amendment, which is not just about coercion, but also about urges. The reason why I co-signed Mr Middendorp's motion is because I often see that public sector information hangs on their own walls as information for employees, for example. Those companies mean that neutral, but that could happen wrong in this case. I would like to make that clear. If the text of the motion for a resolution needs to be clarified, it can be done in all directions, but that is why I signed Mr Middendorp's motion. I know that happens all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u200	Why would an employer want to put up a poster to bring out a corona app?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u201	Because an employer often hangs public sector information, which the government therefore considers important for all citizens, just for information. This could also be information from the Labour Inspectorate, for example on the danger of falling. Think of beautiful posters from the Labour Inspectorate that state how to make sure you don't fall down a stairs and then think about it. It's about that sort of thing. I'd like to avoid that. That is the only reason why I co-signed Mr Middendorp's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u202	But then it depends on what the minister just said, namely that the government explicitly communicates that it is a voluntary app, that is to say underneath it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u203	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u204	Then it is a completely uncontrolled copy of public sector information that exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u205	And yet this employer can then be addressed, so "you are actually promoting that app; you are still exerting an urge, because you put this poster up here." I'm just trying to avoid that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u206	Mr Verhoeven, no one hears what you're saying. You've made your point. Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. Finally, Mrs Van der Graaf has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u207	Thank you, Madam President. I thank the Minister for his clear answer to all the questions. There were quite a lot of them and we have been debating all day. The Christian Union has put forward a number of proposals to emphasise voluntaryity. You cannot be forced, but there can be no soft pressure to download that app either. The anonymity must be guaranteed in order to prohibit the traceability of the data. Temporaryity is emphasized by shortening the duration of the law. With these reinforced safeguards in the law, I will advise my group to support this bill. I asked another question about the cost of this app. I haven't had an answer to that. That's what I'd like to hear. I have also asked a few questions about the vulnerable position of the elderly. I hope to get an answer to that, too. Then I come to the motion, which I have just announced. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands, and other European countries, depend on the exposure notification framework and the operating system of Apple and Google for the development and application of notification applications;]] [[Calls on the Government, at European level or not, to agree with Apple and Google to set up the exposure notification framework for users in the Netherlands at the request of the Dutch Government, at least to agree on who decides that the framework is necessary in the Netherlands or not, who determines when that moment is there, what "regional deactivation" looks technical and what effect it has on users in the Netherlands, and how it will communicate to users;]] [[also invites the Government to evaluate any changes to the framework as well as updates of the operating systems Android and iOS on the effects on app users and, where necessary, to include additional measures, to adapt the Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) in that case, or to terminate the app,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Graaf and Mr Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35538-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u208	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u209	Mr. Chairman. There's been a number of motions. In addition, a number of questions remain from the first term. I'll start with the motion in part No. Mr Hijink, who asked the government to extend the testing policy at the same time as the national introduction of the CoronaMelder, so that anyone who received a notification via the CoronaMelder could be tested for the virus as soon as possible. I'm going to dissuade that motion, although I understand the background to it very well. I can only accept the request if we can actually adapt the directive in that direction because the capacity allows it at that time. Until it has been found that this is of sufficient added value and until it has been found that capacity can suffer, I cannot give a ruling Chamber here. In addition, I do not think we should amend directives per motion. So I am going to discourage this motion, although I actually support the direction of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u210	Okay. Then there's the second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u211	The motion in part No. 15 by Mr Baudet, on cumulative uncertainty, and...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u212	Baudet? From Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u213	...of Mr Van Haga, both comrades, I'm simply going to dissuade. That rhymes too. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 16 by Mr Middendorp and others is a very epistle, impressive. I am going to leave that judgment to the Chamber, because I also want us to continue to evaluate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u214	Okay. Then the fourth motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u215	The intensity of the reporting obligations is very high. I'll deal with that a little proportionally, if you don't mind. Then the motion to part No. 17 by Mr Middendorp and Mrs Van den Berg. I saw the little debate that took place. In my view, Mr Middendorp and Mrs van den Berg want to say that this is how I can live with it: maintain proportionate and maintain common sense. If it is simply said with enthusiasm "Oh, good thing, that CoronaMelder; you should use a poster on the wall too," then there is nothing wrong. Once that leads to urge or compulsion, there is something going on. It would then be contrary to the legal provision. So if I can make it a "common sense" move, if I can understand her like that, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then the motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u216	Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u217	I would like to know from the Minister whether, if the motion is not adopted, it is less common sense and less proportional. Or is this just standing-up policy? Because then we're not gonna file any more motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u218	Well... Here's what I'm gonna say. I get the accent the VVD and the CDA want to give. Indeed, the law is very strict and perhaps it has made it even stricter, at least in its appearance. He says: indirect or direct, there should simply be no urge and compulsion. "Yes, but," say VVD and CDA. Or actually "yes, and": yes, it is, but that should not go crazy, because you can of course say that it is a good idea to use that thing, if you keep telling me that it is voluntary. I think that we are going to act in that vein.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u219	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u220	Then the motion to part No. 18. I think this is a very complicated motion, and we have already seen that a little bit about the debate, because I do not think I can implement it in this way. Because in this way, the motion actually asks to make appointments with Apple and Google to disable the exposure notification framework, which is just built into the operating system, for a country. That is actually what this motion is asking for. I don't think I can ask that from Apple and Google. That system is being used all over the world. It's kind of crazy if every country there could build in their own wishes. What you do want is that you can exert pressure if it develops in the wrong direction. Of course, I can have that conversation with my European colleagues. Could I suggest that you hold this motion or perhaps even withdraw it, although the latter would be very rude to ask? In any case, I would like to ask you to stop her and then give me the opportunity to let you know in writing, after consultation with my European colleagues, how I will shape that conversation with Apple and Google, in order to put pressure on that framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u221	Yes, thank you. Then I'll go to Mrs. Van der Graaf. What are you gonna do with that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u222	I am prepared to hold the motion and receive a letter from the Minister. I would very much like to receive it before the app is introduced. So that's real in the short term. This is what worries live about. I understand that Apple and Google are able to deactivate regionally, so they can deactivate the framework in a country. So I want Apple and Google not to decide that for the Netherlands, but that the Netherlands itself can ask to do so. So my motion sees not only to ensure that it all goes the wrong way, but also to clear agreements about when it is necessary to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u223	You said that, Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u224	The Minister will return to that in writing before the app is introduced, I understand? Yes. Then that's clear. There were a few questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u225	Just a few more questions. Mrs Van der Graaf had a question of more practical order, namely what total costs have been so far. The cost of ICT development is less than 5 million. These costs are largely linked to the hiring of external expertise and also to external services or products. Only $5 million. Then there is Mrs van der Graaf's question about the elderly. For some elderly people it is not possible to download that app. Sometimes that's because they have a somewhat older phone. I don't think we should make the problem any bigger than it is. It has to do with the fact that the framework only works when the operating system is iOS 13.5 or Android 6. And they work on phones up to five years old, about. It is estimated that this represents 94% of smartphones. So that in itself is the majority of smartphones. We can't do much about that without compromising privacy. Otherwise, we wouldn't have to use that framework, but then you're going to work with location settings and then you're really going to compromise the privacy requirements. So, unfortunately, there's nothing we can do about that. Do I recognize signs of elderly people being called by strangers pretending to be the G.D.D.? Well, of course, that's a more common social phenomenon. I see on social media letters from the RIVM that are not from the RIVM and letters from the GGD that are not from the GGD. So you can get someone on the phone who isn't from the GGD, when they say they are. It's possible. Unlike communication, I don't think I can help it. The question of whether the technical troubles have been solved, I had already answered. With this morning's update, that gross modo is solved; in Android that is. Is it true, Mrs Buitenweg, that you can get a warning twice, namely via the app and via BCO? Yeah, you can. I hope that it will also happen a few times that you do not come up in the BCO, but in the app, because only then will it have added value. We're going to keep an eye on that with the evaluation we're going to shape. What do we take into account? What could be the estimate? I am saying that with all the uncertainties there are, because I know that most of these forecasts do not come true exactly is that this could require some 2,500 tests. That's a lot for now, so something not to just decide overnight. But when I look at the numbers we want in the fall, that's fine to do. Anyway, reality is rather unpredictable, so let's not go ice in one night. Then the Minister's expectation of reliability and effectiveness in all those downloads. Mr Jansen asks that. He mentioned Ireland's numbers, where apparently there is also a number available that people did install it first and then they didn't. So we cannot verify this in an automated way, because we have done data minimization. What we can do is involve that fact in the evaluation. How it works with the Irish, I'll have to check with them, because I wasn't ready for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u226	Short question. Mr. Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u227	That's exactly my question. Would you check with your Irish colleague on European cooperation...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u228	Calling the Irish? Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u229	...what exactly is going on there? Of course, there are a lot of them. 500,000 is a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u230	Yeah, sure. Sure. I'll go to the Irish and see what that's like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u231	And inform the Chamber about that, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u232	Sure, of course. In addition to the letter I am going to send to Mrs Van der Graaf, in response to what has been asked about the evaluation, I am going to indicate exactly how we are going to shape this ongoing evaluation. Quite a lot of questions have been asked about the evaluation. Once we pass that law, we're still gonna monitor the app and evaluate how it works. In response to the motion of the VVD c.s. And Mrs Buitenweg's questions, I'm going to send you a letter on how we're going to shape that exactly so you know exactly what you have to expect. The date of introduction has to do with how the other side will decide on this, of course, but I will also inform you about it. And also about how we deal with the prioritisation of test capacity; these are actually the underlying questions of Mr Hijink and Mrs Buitenweg. I will inform the Chamber in due course. (NL) Mr President, that's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u233	Then I would like to thank you, and also the Members of Parliament, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u234	We shall vote on the proposal and the amendments and motions tabled tomorrow.
