ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u1	We will continue the debate on the developments surrounding the coronavirus. We have come to the answers of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u2	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here's what I'd like to propose. If you will allow me, the Minister of Health will discuss three issues after me: the strategy, including the Jetten motion, the position of the OMT and the questions that have been asked about testing. Afterwards, the Minister for Medical Care and Sport addresses the questions asked about hospital and cohort care and so on, personal protective equipment, including the medical masks and related questions on the healthcare sectors concerned, and the appreciation of the care personnel, including in terms of financial compensation. I myself have two major issues, namely the measures, including the questions about the mouth caps, and the economic questions, i.e. the impact on the economic aid packages and so on. I would ask you, Mr President, to allow me to make a few introductory remarks and then come to the questions. If it's okay, I'll do it first. I usually only do that in the General Reviews, but I think this is such an important debate that it seemed appropriate to make a few introductory remarks. I'd like to go back to over six months ago. Then I said in my television speech that we should prepare for the Corona virus to be among us for a long time. In the meantime, we are numerous parliamentary debates, press conferences with more and less viewers, unfortunately, now more; that is what is needed again, technical briefings and talk show talks continue. To be honest, no one knows when a vaccine or other, such as medicines, will really put an end to this violent period. That's just not exactly predictable yet. And that's tricky, for everyone who's involved, for all the Dutch. It is difficult to keep the 1.5 metres everywhere and always, to limit your social contacts with friends and colleagues at times when it is necessary and not just to celebrate your birthday or wedding. That's tricky, and it's getting harder and harder. The corona fatigue strikes, especially now that the days are shortening and our lives are going to play more behind the front door. We come at a stage where even more is going to be asked of the mental resilience of people, because there is loss on all fronts, which is also going to be experienced more and more. Among entrepreneurs, who are hit hard, among people who lose their jobs, among young people, who are limited in everything that is important when you are young, among elderly people who are lonely, and not just elderly people, and among people who are left in their home offices. This whole situation intervenes deeply and leaves few untouched. Corona is a virus that can not only be physical but can also be spiritually debilitating for a society. We humans are deeply social beings, while the fight against the coronavirus is crying out for less social contacts. It's sanding and it's rubbing harder and harder. Nevertheless, it is important that people look at each other even more in the coming period than otherwise, as we saw in March, April and May. And yet it is also necessary that we persist strongly, that we constantly try to take the right steps, driven from the knowledge, to control the virus until there is a medical solution on the horizon. We did that in the months of March to July by smashing the curve with the big hammer of the intelligent lockdown. That's what we did with hard hits. And luckily also successfully, which allowed us to dance with the virus for a few months during the summer. How's it moving? Where do we see the outbreaks? How can we make it level as accurately and locally as possible? When and to a certain extent the coming weeks were and fortunately it is possible that in the next few weeks it will be more limited than in the past few weeks to go back to the café or restaurant after a week of hard work, to the cinema or to a theatre, although that will be less in the coming weeks. The reality now is that it is not just the measures that have to be taken, but that it is ultimately about all of us. The reality now is that we are back in a phase where the hammer has to come out again. Last Monday, we scaled up the regional and local approach to firm national measures to halt the more and more rapid outbreak of the virus. We know we'll only see the effects of that, let's say, a week or two, three. So that's gonna ask a lot of our coolness and our patience and, I'm telling you honestly, so is mine. But the goal is that in a week or two or three we will be back at a level of contamination that is manageable and controllable. That is what we hope to achieve. There is no guarantee of that, many of you have said so too, but everything is aimed at that. And then again there will be new revivals that we hope to be able to manage quickly. With the new knowledge and experience we have gained over the last few months and with all the preparations that have been made in the care but also outside for the autumn, we want to be able to give society the space again to function more normally. But crucial for that is and remains our own behavior as a start, center and end point. That is the only thing we really know for sure, for all the uncertainties and for all the unpredictables that exist. We're dancing with a partner who's barely guided, but tapping isn't an option. Madam President, I would like to make these introductory remarks. I would like to add what I saw my German colleague say today in the German Bundestag and what I say to her: the day comes when we can get back to normal, that we can also touch each other within 1.5 metres, hug each other and live our lives back to normal. But then there must be a vaccine, or at least enough medication to ensure that it is safe. As long as there isn't, we're in this tough movie that we have to go through together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u4	Then I have Mr Asscher, Mr Wilders, Mr Klaver and Mrs Marijnissen. First, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u5	The Prime Minister is quite right to outline what a horrible period this is for so many people and that it is ultimately about behaviour. It is the behaviour that the cabinet is trying to influence with the measures that are being taken. Looking back at the rising figures since the summer, does the Prime Minister therefore recognise that these measures are in fact too late?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u6	No. I do think you should learn lessons from the past few months. Not everything went well, but I'm not saying it's too late. What we agreed is that we would work as much regionally as possible. When we saw that the number of infections was rising from the "controllable" level to the "careful" level, so to that second level in the classification of three levels, we also immediately engaged in discussions with the sectors and took measures within the time limits set. Where you can learn a lesson from, we will really have to look at that together, also in the light of Rob Jetten's motion asking for detailed information on what you are doing at different stages.............................................................................................................................................. What we saw last weekend, of course, was that we had to bring forward the measures. We saw two, perhaps even three regions going to the red, but we also saw that the next few days, so in the week in which we are now sitting, would increase further and that it was therefore necessary to take a number of national measures on a temporary basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u7	The signal values defined by the cabinet itself are not good for much longer, whether it is the reproductive factor, the number of infections per 100,000 inhabitants or hospitalisations. So let me put another question: does the Prime Minister recognise that it would have been better if these measures had been taken earlier? Better to prevent infections, better to protect the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u8	You're gonna have to look at that afterwards. What we've done is this. On the basis of the agreements we made, we said: what are the values on which you really need to look seriously if you need to take further action? That is, for example, when regions do go from the first to the second level. When that happened, we quickly took those measures within the time limits set. But I'm also saying, not everything's going well. Mr Asscher has absolutely a point. What you, I think, have to draw from the events of recent weeks is that the package of measures at that second level should be firmer. So one of the things we are looking at now, including in the context of Rob Jetten's motion, is that we are going to ask him to take a little more time for that too. We are going to do that, because we have to note that we probably should have intervened even harder there than we did, so that we could also have slowed down further growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u9	There is no denying at all that intervention should have been taken sooner, if you see how things stand now. I am not talking at all about the question of guilt, but you cannot deny that the infections have gotten too far and that you now have to intervene very heavily to prevent even worse. So I would find it much stronger, precisely because we don't want a hard learner's cabinet but a learning cabinet, if the Prime Minister says: yes, of course we should have intervened earlier and if it happens again, we will be on top of it sooner. Because this is also about the trust of those people in the care, who are now seeing the department flood again, who are saying again: now I have to abandon my ordinary patients. So I really give a compelling advice to be more open about that and to admit it. You're late. And behind that is the question: are you doing enough now? 'Cause you're aiming for a reproduction factor where it might just work out. I think lesson one is "be first." Lesson 2 is: Be firmer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u10	We've agreed on this, and I really think that that's a good approach... that you need to hit the virus where you want to hit it, and that you're doing it in a way where you do as little damage to society as possible. So when it was necessary in all those regions where the number of infections went through that 50 per week and there were also a number of other regions where it was not going in the right direction, we took those measures. Mr Asscher says that I am defending this too much now. That's not my intention. I agree with him that you should also learn lessons. I think it is an important lesson that you have to find that you have to look again at the type of measures you take when you find that a region of "it's all right" is too much going on at the level of "careful" and that that package, if you look back on it now, should probably have been more robust. We want to study this very precisely, because we want to learn from it in case we get out of this phase and we would come back later this year or next year in a situation where regions have to go from "it's under control" to that scaling up of "it's worrying." Then, of course, you have to make sure that you take measures that are really right at the time. So I don't want to say here that the cabinet is doing it flawlessly. Not at all. But in the end, it's always a mix of the measure and the behavior we all show. In that mix, you have to do the right thing. The behavior is incredibly important, because that ultimately determines whether we get the virus underneath. And the measures should encourage people to show that behavior. And if that doesn't happen on its own, you have to be willing to take action. Once again, I think it is a serious lesson to see whether the package we have agreed on nationally with these six regions, and then with the next eight, was solid enough. Did that do enough of what we wanted it to do? I think that is a really serious lesson that we need to study.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u11	It's September now, almost October. We saw something else. We've seen that if you press the care system just as firmly, when there's a crisis, that care system is about to fall over. And that's not because of all the great people who work in care, because they do their best every day for us. But that is going to happen, and I want the Prime Minister to reflect on that as well, because we have not really made care much stronger in recent years, over the last ten years. On the contrary! Under your responsibility, Mr. Prime Minister, we've closed down hospitals. We've finished Ice Beds. We've finished regular beds in the hospitals. We ran a vaccine institute abroad. We have a shortage of care personnel. That's a whole laundry list, which shows, if you just push it now, if it gets difficult, that people in care with too few people have to do too much, that there are too few beds, that people have to go to Germany, that we don't make protective equipment ourselves. In short, it's rattling. I would also like you to reflect on this, at this stage in which, unfortunately, there are infections. Because it's too easy to blame those people in the Netherlands for everything. I am not saying that you are blaming them for everything, but that you are also blaming them for all of this, even though it is actually a matter of not enough appreciation and funding of that care in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u12	Once again, we are generously trying to discuss the matter with each other. Defense at first. If you look, not at the cabinet, but at the healthcare sector, if you look at our health care, it is, I think, right to be among the very best in the world. In all rankings in Europe it is number one or two and in the world it is in the top three. We have a fantastic healthcare system. Whether it's the hospitals or the nursing homes, it's really top level. It's also very expensive, but it may be. One in eight euros that we earn together in the Netherlands goes to health care. That is rising rapidly and of course you must try to keep that cost increase under control, through innovation. But we are all willing here in this Chamber to spend a lot of money on that concern. Within that concern, you will of course see that in recent years, that's also a difference with Germany, for example, in hospitals, at what levels you want to classify all those beds, and how many ic-beds is the heaviest level of intensive care you need compared to other levels. Many other countries have either intensive care or beds in the hospital, just without too much equipment surrounding it. In the Netherlands this is a much finer system. But of course Mr Wilders has a point when he says: yes, wait a minute, but if you suddenly need a lot of extra ic-beds, then that is complicated. That's right. Of course, we've seen that this year. He's just got a point there. That is also why we are trying with man and power, together with the healthcare sector, to see if you can also scale up that ic capacity flexibly if you need it. The same goes, of course, for the wider hospital capacity. That is important if there are pandemics or other issues. What you don't want, of course, is that there are structurally 2,000 ic-beds, or 3,000, or 1,500, which you know you normally only need 800, 900, maybe 1,000, and then hundreds of people, thousands of people actually don't have a job at the time because they have to guard that capacity. So what we are doing now is drawing lessons from the period March-April, so that you can scale up much more flexibly. But Wilders has a point there. The fact that it is tightly adjusted also makes it more difficult in such a pandemic to scale up quickly. He's just got a point there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u13	Sure. But above all, it is now clear that we have a wonderful system and a good health system, although we are looking at the OECD pictures in the middle and at the bottom. But apart from that, our system is not crisis-proof. We've closed down too many hospitals, gotten rid of beds. Then you can say that it is such a beautiful system, we are not crisis-proof. This is evident from one thing, and that is the big problem. I predict that, apart from corona, the biggest problem of the coming months, may be years. Those are the problems with non-planable care, the problems with regular care, the problems, we hear that the people of hospitals are already saying that if the growth of corona continues for a while now, very soon we are in the phase that one cannot help those people anymore in the regular care. If there are 1,600 people with corona in the hospitals, then only 80% of the regular care is available and then it becomes less. That means, for a moment, to make it concrete; I have already tried that in my term: people with cancer, people with dialysis, people with heart problems can not only die in the worst case and died this year because they had no place, but also people with pain, from hernias to knee surgery. Those people are gonna be in the biggest trouble. What is threatening now is that what happened earlier this year will happen again. I think that, as Prime Minister, that is unacceptable. We must have a system that, in the most crisis-like situation, not only provides good help to the corona patients, but also to the people with other diseases, so that they do not die, so that they do not suffer at home, so that you are simply helped when you have cardiovascular diseases and so that those people do not have to leave because Corona patients, once again, deserve the best help in hospital. That's what's about to happen. I would like to hear from you how you will prevent this, not only now, but also in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u14	Mr Wilders certainly has a good point to make here. This is, of course, a huge dilemma. That dilemma is that you want a high-quality healthcare system, but you also want to avoid a lot of unused capacity. What we have, I think, established with each other in the period March, April and May is that we may have set it too tight. This gives us sufficient capacity in normal conditions, but in this pandemic you can see that such an appeal is being made. That is not a unique Dutch problem. It doesn't happen in Germany. There they have a different type of hospitals, with lots of beds without too much equipment and lots of IC beds. But you did see the problem in England, France and Spain and certainly also in the Netherlands. The answer to this can only be that you need to be able to scale up flexiblely much faster. It'll take time. For Mr Wilders is also touching on another point, namely a shortage of people in care. There are about 1.3 million people working in health care and there are vacancies. Unfortunately, not all of this has been resolved in a few weeks or a few months. In addition, people in the care sector worked terribly hard during those periods of March and April. They are now in danger of being asked a great deal of them again. We hope, of course, to be able to prevent a situation such as that in March and April, but you can see the numbers rising. He is also right that there is a risk that scheduled operations will have to be postponed. You want to keep that to a minimum. The only way you do that is to have more flexible scaling-up options in healthcare. What you don't want is that there's a lot of capacity available, with a lot of people in it, who are never used, except in extreme circumstances. That's a real dilemma, and I wouldn't be in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u15	Again, I am not saying that the Prime Minister is of evil will, but the answer is simply not right. All we should want is for people to live. What the hell are you saying to the person who had a heart attack or who needs a lung surgery or who needs dialysis or whatever, which is just life-saving for that person? You can't tell someone like that, Mr. Rutte, I don't want to have a system in which there are beds that aren't used. These people want an answer from you. Those people just need help. I can't accept you saying we're short-staffed. I don't rule, you rule. You should, of course, have foreseen that this could happen in recent years, and certainly at the beginning of this year. The corona pandemic couldn't have anticipated you, but we would be in a crisis in this situation. So my question is again: what do you say to these people? Please, no technical answer, because that doesn't help you with a heart problem, if you need knee surgery or have a hernia. Or if you have cancer and need help, and the GP says: just a moment, ma'am or mister, and in a few weeks we won't be able to help you. What do you say to those people who sit at home in pain and look death in the eye and who do not want to hear from the Prime Minister that it is not appropriate for there to be hospital beds that are not used? They just want help. Their lives are at stake. What do you say to these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u16	First of all, I say to the people who are concerned about this, and it is, of course, terrible if you are in fear of that, that at the moment the hospitals collectively are doing everything they can to prevent this situation from happening to the maximum. So is their power. They'll do anything about it. The strength of the Dutch hospital system is also that people are used to working together and very quickly arranging things with each other. They also tell us that this can best be done if all hospitals participate. What doesn't work is that you've got a couple of big hospitals "mottenbald" ready for when it's needed. They say, "We all like to participate. That is what we are used to; that is solidarity among ourselves, and that is what is being worked on day and night." As far as vacancies are concerned, Mr Wilders knows that we are doing everything we can to ensure that we fill them up, also on the basis of suggestions from his party and from others here in the Chamber. These vacancies do not necessarily occur in the hospital sector, but also in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u17	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u18	Finally, Madam President. I said that, unfortunately, this is going to be the problem of the coming time. Of course, every dead man is too many. But we see that the mortality, that is, the number of people who die from corona, although unfortunately it is rising again, is fortunately lower than earlier this year. They're often younger people. I predict that the number of people who get into trouble and die because normal regular care will get in trouble if the numbers increase further, may be a bigger problem and may involve larger numbers than the number of people who are in trouble because of corona, which we do not, of course, allow them. So I'd like you to reconsider what you're saying to people. I actually want the next guarantee for everyone who is listening at home and watching television and who knows "I have to see the doctor in the hospital right away. I hate that, but I need it, because I'm sick. I don't have a corona, but I can't be home with pain or cancer anymore." I want you to promise these people that they can get a spot this year, no matter how you handle it. You rule, not me. I want you to promise them they won't suffer or die because there's no regular care for them this year. As Prime Minister, you must be able to promise this to the people of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u19	Then I'm selling tubers for lemons. What I can say is that not only me, but the whole cabinet and everyone in health care will do their stinking best and work day by night to prevent that as much as possible. With high contagion rates and the consequences that this has for the nursing departments and the intensive care capacity, you can't give the warranty as Wilders who asks one-on-one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u20	The Prime Minister states that the cabinet does not rule without fault. Not everything's going well. Things aren't going well either. Can he indicate exactly what he didn't like in the past period?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u21	I've already mentioned one thing. That is that you have to take a very serious look at whether the package of measures at level 2, i.e. if the situation in the region goes from manageable to worrying, is robust enough. We thought it was, but you can see it grew fast after that. A second point is that, at least in that first week, it took us a long time to get the regional approach quickly implemented with the presidents of the security regions. That's not someone specific. You saw it go much faster in the second week, but it turned out to be really complex to organize that. Again, in the second week and the next eight we had learned a lot and that went faster. The objective we had set ourselves was to intervene when the number of infections was so many days above the level of 50 per week. We managed to get that timing. Because the situation has grown to that third level in three cities, or at least in two and possibly three regions, we are now putting it forward. We want to get ahead of the wave and take national measures, because we see that in the coming days too many regions will be at that third level. I think these are two lessons you can draw. The complexity of the cooperation between cabinet and regions is a real dilemma. He went much better after that. That's nobody's specific, but that's a fact. A second lesson is the strength of the package. The Jetten motion calls for a breakdown of the measures by level, and of what you do nationally anyway, and what can be added regionally to address specific circumstances in a region. Now that we have a package of national measures, we would like to use these two weeks to calculate this very precisely and draw real lessons from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u22	I think it is good and important for the Prime Minister to acknowledge in fact that the package of measures in the event of an increase in contamination may not have been strong enough if you look at it retroactively. That does raise a question for me today. Today, of course, we are faced with a new question. The number of infections is getting out of hand and yet we are dealing with a cabinet that opts for a set of measures that is not as the OMT recommends. My question to the Prime Minister is: if he, learning from a mistake that was made earlier, says that we might have had to take some firmer measures at the time, why, at a time when things are getting so exciting, does he choose not to take all these measures, but does the cabinet pick out some of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u23	I think you should say on balance that we do what the OMT says. There are a few differences. I'd like to name them briefly. For example, the OMT says: bring the groups inside back to 20 instead of 30. We said: let us be consistent with the logic that we used in March and April, and take 30 as our starting point. In most restaurants and cafes where it is well organized, this does not have to lead to more infections. One point that has been mentioned a lot is the curfew. I don't think it resonates positively with everyone here either. Nor did the OMT say that we should set it up, but that we should keep it up to date. That's worth considering. A third point in which the OMT goes a little further than we do, is that it says: not only at home up to three visitors, but also at the café, restaurant or anywhere else groups of three instead of four. We have said of this: we make a distinction between three at home - the same number as in March and April - and four in cafes, restaurants, etc. On the other hand, the cabinet is again somewhat tighter when it comes to young people aged 14 and 15. The OMT says you can also let young people aged 14 and 15 into your home. We allow them up to and including 12 years. So we are a little tighter in that. If you add it all up and subtract it, I think we're very close together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u24	We have heard OMT members in the media over the last few days who think otherwise. They say out loud that they would rather see more national measures now that it is really exciting and the hospitals are in danger of flooding again. I would like to ask for a moment, because on the one hand I think it is right that the cabinet should look back and say: it may not have been good; we should have taken a firmer package of measures by then. We must learn from that in the future, but we have great concern for the moment of today. Even now, the cabinet still chooses not to do the whole package. We can discuss all kinds of loose measures, but it is a fact that the cabinet makes that choice. If you add to that how the developments of the virus have always been said "The number of infections is increasing. That's worrying, but fortunately it's just happening in the hospitals," that's twice as worrying for us, because we can now learn the first big lesson that we're just too late at the time it's filling up in the hospitals. My question is therefore: does the Prime Minister not think that it is a very dangerous gamble now, that we are really taking a big risk if we do not take stronger and more effective measures now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u25	A few things, though. I don't think there's much difference between us and the OMT if you add up and subtract and see what we do. The second question is about media reports about the OMT. Hugo de Jonge will say a little more about that, but I suspect he's not going to say much more than to refer to what the boss of the RIVM's infectious disease department said in a hearing yesterday. He thinks it is appropriate to discuss this first with his own OMT members, other than that we are now going to reflect on it. I think that's correct, too. He is the chairman of that club and was rightly confronted with this in the hearing by colleagues of yours. I understand. I also thought his answer was correct to go first to his own team. I suspect Hugo the Young intends to give a similar answer immediately. Then about whether this is enough. Of course, you never know for sure. What we do do is generally take over with pluses and minuses as advised by the experts. On balance, I think, that has about the same effect. For example, if you see how quickly we decide in the Netherlands to declare a region red... You're talking about other things about 150 positive-tested individuals in the 100,000 population. That is the most rigorous of all the options that have been under discussion. Of course, it must always be seen in conjunction with other elements, but also the transition from green to yellow to 50 is in line with what Germany is doing. In that sense, I think we have adjusted the signal value more tightly than not. Strictly speaking, last Monday we did not have to do more than turn two regions red. A third region was very close, then you would have done three. Because we see that it is moving fast, we have said: let us not wait any longer and now take that measure nationally, and we do not wait until other regions are in the red too. I think we're doing it all together and subtracted in a sensible way. You're gonna have to see what the behavior is doing for the next two weeks. The measures are not going to solve this further. These measures are designed to ensure that the behaviour develops in such a way that we keep the virus underneath each other. It'll always be the combination.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u26	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u27	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. No, no one can look ahead, but we can look back. We can now learn from the first wave. You yourself learned that the package was not strong enough at the time, and that is why the question is quite right whether the package is solid enough if experts advise otherwise. I would like to highlight one more thing there, and that is the use of protective equipment by our caregivers in the nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u28	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u29	That's what the OMT says: do it nationwide in all nursing homes, don't wait. But once again, the cabinet ignores it. Is the cabinet not taking an irresponsible risk with our people who live and work in the nursing homes by still not doing so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u30	No, we're not. Mrs Van Ark will look into this in a moment. The first responsibility is clear. The OMT must at some point say what is needed in nursing homes. Then the sector itself will turn that into directives for the sector, and that is what has happened. You can see that last Monday 28 September's second OMT opinion echoed the first OMT opinion from early September. This must now be further implemented. For the details, I would like to refer to Tamara van Ark. But I heard a lot of people say, "the cabinet ignores the OMT advice for nursing homes," and that's really not true. Perhaps you will allow me, Mr President, to leave the details to Mrs Van Ark.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u31	Yeah, that's what the Minister's gonna come back to. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u32	I would like to continue on this point, because last week we had the debate with the Prime Minister. That was a strong debate. It was about where the big switch came from with that RIVM advice. That would be about aligning us with the hospital directive. Now, when I see that the OMT advises: just additional measures in nursing homes, preventive measures. And the letter from the cabinet says that this is being set up for three regions. Why the choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u33	Once again, Mr President, I would really like to ask... We have, of course, divided the tasks a little bit. I have now focused on a few very big issues that I have to deal with now. If we go into detail now, I really want to ask for a suspension and ask Mrs Van Ark to update me on all the details, so that I can answer those questions. Otherwise, I would really like to ask if Mrs Van Ark can do so, because that is the role distribution. I assumed that's how we'd do it. In general, I can repeat here once again that we have not put OMT advice alongside us. In the division of roles it works correctly, namely in such a way that the Outbreak Management Team advises things and the sector, the profession itself, will convert them into guidelines for the sector. It's not like the cabinet said "don't do that" or "do less" or whatever. No way. And then we have to make sure there's enough material.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u34	Yes. I think this point will be discussed in detail later. You're there yourself, so if that's not enough, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u35	The Prime Minister says he wants to suspend. I'll let him, if he can meet the Chamber afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u36	If you insist.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u37	I would in itself...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u38	Not a bad suggestion. But seriously, I'll go into the details later. The question I asked is basically a question. It's not a question of detail. We had a debate last week, quite critically, about why this is not settled in the nursing homes. The OMT opinion states quite clearly: arrange it everywhere. However, I see in that letter that only three regions are chosen. I am not asking for details, I am asking for the core on this point. And I'll tell you why it's relevant to discuss that now. We are talking about the lessons learned. We're talking about what we've learned from recent times. If we've seen one thing, it's that things went terribly wrong in those nursing homes. I therefore believe that the Prime Minister owes us an answer to the very simple question of why only three regions were chosen and not the whole of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u39	Then one level deeper, if you really have to. The OMT advised additional measures in nursing homes on 28 September, including the preventive use of nose masks. Can I call it "pbm"? Mrs Van Ark had another term for it: mouth masks, right, to make clear the distinction with regard to non-medical mouth nose masks. The treatment advice of Verenso should be taken as a starting point. That treatment advice states that, at least at the time of reaching the defined threshold, the preventive use of surgical mouth-nose masks....................................................................................................................................................................................... In the letter of 28 September, we explicitly mentioned this policy for the preventive use of foot-nose masks in the regions with the designation'serious' and referred it to the treatment advice of Verenso. Verenso recommends that the use of preventive mouth masks should also be considered earlier in the event of an increased prevalence, i.e. an increased number of infections, in areas defined as "careful." In addition, they indicate that this has been happening in many houses for a long time. In other words, in regions where the situation is defined as "serious," the rule is "preventive, unless," and in regions where the situation is "careful," "think seriously to use pbm" on the basis of how Verenso translated the OMT opinion. Mr President, if we go further, I really ask Mrs Van Ark to do so, because I am really out of ammo on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u40	Okay, well, then the Minister for Medical Care will be next.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u41	Sure, I didn't even want to go into the subject so deeply, but I'm glad that everything on that note has now been read out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u42	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u43	But I really don't think it's enough to refer to Verenso right now. We are having this debate with the cabinet, which does not refer in the letter to Verenso, but writes that preventive action is required for those regions. The OMT advises not only to do this if it is serious, but also in the case of "worried." That is a lot more regions in the Netherlands. Actually, they all are. So I still don't understand, with the reference to Verenso, why the cabinet doesn't just say "that's the responsibility that the cabinet has; you shouldn't shift it to any other club "We think that preventive use of those mouth masks should take place throughout the Netherlands. We now finally have the advice we wanted for that. The OMT says the same thing." So I honestly do not understand why the Prime Minister did not write that in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u44	Because, as I just said, with this type of medical masks, the profession translates the OMT recommendations into the sector. Then it is our job to ensure that there is enough material. So is the division of roles.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u45	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u46	Yeah, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u47	I'm sorry, but I really don't understand any of this. An opinion shall be given by the OMT.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u48	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u49	This cabinet comes to the Chamber with a letter to indicate how this is to be implemented. We all know how it went incredibly wrong at the nursing homes. Finally, it is clear that we had a whole debate on this last week, and that the preventive use of these masks is so important. This is important not only when the situation is serious but also when it is worrying. It's preemptive. That means we use them as a precaution before there really is a reason. That was the deal. That's what the OMT says. Now the cabinet says that it is only deployed in three regions. I really don't think this is possible. The Chamber shouldn't accept this. We have been debating this for seven months now. The people in the care deserve to get those masks preventively.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u50	What Mr Klaver is asking for is a very different division of tasks, namely that the cabinet translates this type of guidelines for medical mouth masks into the sector. We don't. That's not the division of roles. This is what the organizations of the professions do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u51	I see Mr Segers, Mrs Van Brenn and Mr Azarkan. Oh, first Mr Asscher on this point. One question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u52	Yes, Mr. Chairman, because something is threatening to go wrong. The Prime Minister points to Verenso. In response to the press conference, Verenso says: "We do not think this is wise. We prefer that this is simply imposed in all the areas where it is worrying," and that is now the whole country. The question of Marijnissen and Klaver remains: why do you not? I would be pleased if the Prime Minister could give us a statement as to whether there is a shortage in this. We had a discussion on this last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u53	No, zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u54	Well, then it is quite incomprehensible not to go into the wishes of Verenso today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u55	The position is next. The OMT advises and Verenso says: we translate this as follows. On the basis of this translation, the situation is as follows. One. In regions where the situation is serious, the rule is: use preventive, unless. "Unless" is, for example, a situation where you have to deal with someone who freaks out when he encounters someone with a mask. So I'm talking about these special situations. But always use it in principle. Two. In regions where the situation is worrying, consider using it seriously. That's based on Verenso's advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u56	We're having a discussion about the measures. The Prime Minister says: looking back, perhaps we should have taken more firm measures earlier. That's a very honest reflection. We have OMT advice. OMT members will then discuss the minority position, the majority position and the application themselves. We have mayors who talk in all kinds of places and also publicly engage in the discussion. The question from the Chamber that was laid down in the motion for a resolution is: could you not take a more predictable and calmer set of measures at a certain time? The Prime Minister says: well, I would like to; we want to work on that motion. What is his ambition in that respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u57	Reflection forces you to see if the measures at the second level were firm enough. We really need to consider that. This has an impact on the implementation of the Jetten motion. That is why we want to take a little longer. We now have that space, because we are in a period of national measures. We want to take the time for this until October 13, and then it comes. We're using the time we have now. That's the luxury during all the misery. There is nothing but misery now, but a very small advantage is that you have time to look at that package very closely. These packages should include measures at these different levels that apply to a particular situation throughout the country. But the question is, of course, what can regions do in addition, taking into account the specific situation in these regions? So that's what we want to achieve. Mr Segers is, of course, right that many people are expressing themselves in the discussions. That's not bad at all. I think that's fine. We have many virologists in the Netherlands, whether trained or not. Of course, we have a lot of mayors who think of everything. I don't think that's a problem. It is the task of the three of us and Ferd Grapperhaus to set a course with all these comments. If things aren't going well, we have to name them here as well. If things go well, you can name them or we won't talk about them. We have to ensure that we lead the country through this crisis in a sensible way step by step. It helps if there is more predictability. What do you do when you go from phase one to phase two or from phase two to phase three? That's really wise. We were going to do this, too. The Jetten motion gives a more specific meaning to this. We want to carry it out, too. However, I would like to point out once again that we want to make use of this period to see very precisely whether what we did at the second level is working properly. We will also examine what other lessons we can draw from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u58	It saves a lot of discussion and discussion is indeed not wrong. This is also a national debate. What's proportional? What's wise? Anyone can talk about that. However, we need to be able to act sooner, faster and more appropriately in changing circumstances, i.e. to change signal values. The R came above one a month ago. That's when it went the wrong way. If that were clearer and more predictable, we could have acted sooner. We could have taken earlier measures that would have led to less discussion. That helps. We know that and we know the ambition of the cabinet. What's the perspective after the three weeks that lie ahead of us? We now have measures for three weeks. What can the Prime Minister say to the question of where to stand in three weeks' time? Then what are the scenarios?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u59	However, I would like to say a few words about the questioning. I refer to the timeline of early September. You can then see when regions from level one to two or from two to three have gone. This shows that we have succeeded in making packages in good time. I just think you should ask yourself very seriously whether the package of measures at the second level was heavy enough. We've decided to bring things forward for a reason. This applies not only to the region of Rotterdam, which was not strictly included. It was about Amsterdam and Haaglanden. We said Rotterdam would be at that level very soon. You can also see developments in a number of other regions which make it wise to make a national package now. I understand very well what Mr Segers is asking. With the package that has now been agreed, we intend to get the spread below 1 in the next two to three weeks, namely 0.9. Then it goes out very slowly again and the rise in the hospital sector decreases. It is now up to us to look at whether this is going to happen in practice. That is why, at the press conference last Monday, we said quite honestly to the Netherlands: if this does not happen, additional measures cannot be ruled out. At the time, I mentioned only a few very serious measures, such as the complete closure of the catering industry and/or the complete closure of the cultural sector and/or the complete closure of the sports sector. These are far more far-reaching measures which bring us back much more in the situation of March/April. We all want to avoid that. I think today is our collective appeal to the Netherlands: let us all show the behavior that is necessary and that we have shown together so well in the period March/April. It is a combination of measures that should lead to a certain behaviour. That call applies to all of us. We have to look at ourselves, too. We're not perfect the way we are. We make mistakes, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u60	But that behavior can be influenced by being very clear about the outcome, should certain signal values be wrong. If the R factor is going in the wrong direction, then it must be clear what the consequences are, what the consequences are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u61	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u62	There's nothing worse for a restaurant owner than uncertainty. As the father of two students I say: nothing worse than first having the perspective that there can be more and that can be scaled down again, and then getting to know that all plans can be put back in the trash. For everyone, it must be clear what we are going to do if we are not on that 0.9 in three weeks' time. As far as I am concerned, I would prefer to say 0.8.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u63	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u64	Would it be possible for me to ask the Cabinet for that perspective, to outline these scenarios very clearly in the next letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u65	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u66	For those who are watching now, for those who are now wondering with fear and trembling what this means for three weeks, it is good to know when to fear the worst and when to breathe quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u67	But I just gave the answer. We all want to get to that 0.9 or lower. We all want to achieve this through a combination of the measures and the behavior associated with them. If you manage to reach that 0.9 or lower, you can go back to a regional approach. Then I need the implementation of the Jetten motion, so that we show very precisely what those packages look like. And then we must also have learned what is and is not working on that second level. Well, that's true. But if this does not work in two or three weeks' time, you will get much heavier measures at national level. I have just outlined it, and I will mention the measures that will then be needed once more. It is very hard to say, but then you really have to think about closing down the catering and/or closing down the culture sector altogether and/or closing down the sport altogether. That's inevitable, because then you'll go to a lockdown more. That's the T-junction that Hugo de Jonge was talking about in his part of the press conference last Monday. In addition, you can go two ways, and we're doing everything we can to go one way. In addition, we will of course keep a few things in the back pocket for the next few weeks for the situation in which you think: it is not going well enough. In this way we come to talk about the non-medical mouth caps, which are widely desired in the Chamber. It is expected that they will also do something. Well, and that's how you try to see if you can do extra things in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u68	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u69	Finally. We're discussing the masks now. That too is inevitable. However, in order to prevent us from having another wide-ranging discussion about the gravity of measures and what measures are needed, a perspective would certainly help. And it would also help if the presidents of the security regions knew what was in that "regional toolbox," if it was clear what they could do and what was predictable for local residents. It must be clear to them: if we shoot in red locally, then these are the consequences. Then we know: our behaviour is decisive, our behaviour determines whether these measures should be taken, yes or no. The more predictable, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u70	Agreed. If you manage to get to 0.9 or 0.8 in that T-junction, you'll get to the toolbox. A motion was passed on this matter last week. This is what we want to bring out by October 13th, I believe. Minister De Jonge is nodding now. And if you fail to do so, you will come up with heavier measures, because you will, of course, have to make sure that the matter does not get any worse. But of course we have confidence in it, otherwise we would not come up with this package. We are confident if we all do this now, plus the behavior that goes with it. And I also take into account in my environment that people are looking much more closely at it now. They say: oh yes, wait a minute, it is very serious again with the 1.5 meters, with the sneezing in the elbow, with the testing of complaints, with the staying home until you get the results and all the other things. People are also a lot more alert because of the serious situation we are now in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u71	I see Mrs Van Brenn, Mr Azarkan, Mr Jetten and Mr Pieter Heerma. First, Mrs Van Brenk has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u72	Indeed, I stood up when the Prime Minister said that we need more time to implement the Jetten motion. Because I think time is a very difficult thing for us, because it's exciting. I'm just asking the following question in all honesty. We have two examples that have just been mentioned, namely Ireland and Germany. In Germany they have very strict standards. Why don't we just use it as a base? Why does it take so long? Can the Prime Minister explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u73	Of course we have a lot, but what you want is also: drawing lessons from the past few weeks. What do we got? For 50 positive tested persons per 100,000, a very serious look should be given to the scaling-up of "there is not a very serious situation" to "worried." And when it gets over 150, you're gonna be in that red phase. That is what we know, of course, in connection with the whole picture. You're not just gonna look at that one number, but it's a very serious figure. That then triggers you to look at the whole situation again. That is, of course, always a social and administrative weighting. That's what Germany does, by the way. You do that together with the security region, you do that together with the GGD. But at such times it triggers, and that is very much in line with the German system. What Ireland is doing is also saying: and then you can expect this. I think that's what Rob Jetten's motion is asking for. In fact, we could also send that letter now, because we have, of course, worked on the basis of those packages in recent weeks. But now I say: while we are dealing with national measures over the next few weeks, we also want to use this time to draw extra thorough lessons from the last few weeks, and we want to see how solid that package was at that second level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u74	If the cabinet comes up with this letter and with these measures, I would also like to know why it does not choose to comply with Germany's standards. The Red Team also showed this morning that in Germany the red flag is already at 50 and not 150. So why are we much more accommodating in that respect? Because then you have a much bigger problem bringing things back to basics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u75	Then let me promise that we'll also describe... Maybe Hugo de Jonge can say something about that. If it is still necessary afterwards, we can describe the difference with Germany in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u76	I'd love to. I wonder if the understatement here in the Netherlands was also in the cabinet. How's the coordination? The last time we spoke very critically about the campaign of the DVD. The message was: it's okay and get back on the train and on the bus. Did we all sleep together? What direction does the Prime Minister or Minister De Jonge have to see what happens in all these sectors? Then we can all send out the right signals. The signal "come in together" has actually been a very wrong signal, hasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u77	That can always be tighter. You always have to learn lessons from that. I think that is a valid point, without now wanting to serve up that particular situation here. I understand that very well. I absolutely agree with Mrs Van Brenk that, in general terms, you should always be prepared to draw those lessons. I really think there are lessons to be learned from the past few weeks. I don't mean we're late. In fact, I think we're bringing things forward right now. I think you should see if the package you had on that second level was tight enough, like I just said. In addition, I have already said that there is, of course, a great deal of administrative coordination if you have to work with 25 security regions. No one's to blame for that. That's just a fact. You're dealing with 25 GGD regions and now 25 security regions. Of course, that's complicated. But that's what everyone wants, too. Everyone wants to make that work, too. You can also see that everyone is of very good will. The Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Security Council are also doing a terrible job there. Really everyone does. That was more difficult the first week than the second week. You're learning again. It'll go faster. I still believe that we have managed to come up with a package within the deadlines we set.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u78	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u79	I would like to make another pressing request to the Cabinet to communicate exactly what this is. Some people keep saying: it's a flu virus. We cannot stress enough how incredibly disastrous this can be in a human life, what impact it has and what chronic misery this can bring. I hope the Prime Minister will support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u80	You also saw here in the Chamber debate a few who were more of that school. That's Holland, too. We have a free country. People can find that. It is, of course, my job and our job to explain how serious it is. We do that very often, but I also think it is important to continue to outline a perspective. After all, this may take a while. Then you still want to be able to go to school, that young people can go to school, that people who work on Friday after they have worked hard can have a beer, that we can go back to the theater. Fortunately, even in the coming weeks, this can still be done, but with more limitations. It's harder than before. And if you don't manage to bring the infections back to the level we want, you run the risk of having to limit them even further. But I would like to outline that dilemma and balance in communication. It's very serious and we're really dealing with something very dangerous here, but if we're all doing it smart, you can still live your life quite normally. At least it's not a new normal you want to keep too long. You want to get back to normal as soon as possible, where Mrs. Van Brenk and I can kiss again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u81	That's what we want to see. And so does Mrs Van Brenk, I hear. It's in the Acts, Mrs. Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u82	We always do that in private.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u83	Well, that's consensual. That's what I'm getting out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u84	Only then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u85	Sometime in May, we discussed the strategy to tackle the corona virus. There was testing, a lot of testing, testing everyone. The source and contact research supported by an app was crucial. That was the pillar, plus people's behaviour; we ask people to comply with the rules. What's left of that strategy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u86	It is, of course, in general terms. What we added after we managed to reduce the number of infections, is that we all learned from all the lessons and said the discussions here and in the cabinet: it is better if you could work more regionally, because then you can get the virus more targeted in the region where it pops up. You can now see that it is such that for the next few weeks you really have to take a number of tough national measures. In addition to what Mr Azarkan says, however, I would like to add that we already had that regional approach in mind, but that it is really extra articulate from May, June, where testing and BCO are of course also important to keep as close a eye on the virus as possible. But eventually the virus spreads because it jumps from one person to another. The most important way to prevent that is behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u87	About the assessment of that behavior in combination with how we are currently doing the testing, source and contact research and support etc. Let's look ahead for the next three weeks. The OMT said it's actually just past the abyss if you want to get to 0.9. The OMT actually says: you should do it even sharper and take a little more space in relation to the abyss. The second is that more stringent measures are advised. Nevertheless, the Prime Minister, together with the Minister of VWS and Mrs Van Ark, chooses to take a slightly different course. Does this mean that we are at risk of having to take even more stringent measures if we are to fail?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u88	I have already answered that question and said that I believe that what we are doing now with the pluses and minuses is very close to what the OMT recommends. I have already said that I do not think it is appropriate to respond to the individual signals from the OMT, also given what the head of the infectious disease control department said about it, namely that he wants to discuss it first in the OMT. But we believe that this package is very close to what the OMT recommends. It has a single minus and a single plus in it compared to the OMT, but I think the balance is about the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u89	An important variable is behavior. I also see in the analyses the movements of people, gatherings, traveling, Google et cetera. It also looks at what it does with people's behavior. Does this mean that this behavior has also been taken into account, that there is some kind of average behavior where we can say in three weeks that we are on 0.9? Is that calculated? Or does the Prime Minister say something like he also said at the football games, where people are not allowed to go now, namely: I blame people for not behaving properly? I'm just trying to figure out how the variable behavior was taken into account in realizing that 0.9.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u90	I'm not trying to blame anyone. I can only observe sometimes that it is not always possible for everyone to succeed. I don't always get it, either. But also socially wide it is not always possible to keep us all to the rules. That sum eventually leads to too many infections. Of course, in its advice, the OMT takes into account the fact that we do not live in a perfect country in which everyone fully complies with the rules. The advice therefore also includes the non-compliance rate, so the fact that not everyone does what you expect them to do. Of course it is. We're not naive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u91	If these measures do not have sufficient effect in the next three weeks, the Prime Minister does not rule out the possibility of moving back towards the smart lockdown. I think we all want to avoid that as much as possible. That's why it's important that we focus on that change of behavior. But we have seen over the past few weeks and months that a small group that doesn't follow the rules ruins it for the large group that does every day try to comply with the corona measures as much as possible. I myself have heard signs that some cities have not actually been maintained in recent weeks. That's where zero corona fines are written out. This means that people who deliberately violate the corona measures get away with it and ruin it for a lot of Dutch people. What is the Prime Minister going to do with the mayors in these three weeks to achieve good enforcement?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u92	That was also a question from Mr Jetten in his first term. 33 fines were issued by the police between 31 August and the end of September in Rotterdam, in Amsterdam 3 and in The Hague 0. The tickets issued by boas were not included. These are the police fines, so that's limited. Again, you can't find out about the boas at this time. That's what we're trying to include in the next progress letter. We have agreed with the Security Council that they will also look more closely at enforcement. That's part of the package. It is not just the measures, it is also the agreement to keep tighter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u93	I think that's very good. If we respect and enforce the measures that have now been agreed as well as possible, hopefully we will be able to prevent a further lockdown. I would like to ask whether the Prime Minister would like to pay particular attention to a specific group. Today, it became clear from a survey conducted by professional association NU'91 that about half of the health care workers are currently facing and being spit and threatened.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u94	Yeah, horrible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u95	Those are people who are hard at work in the care of our sick and elderly. These people are also faced with all kinds of unacceptable behaviour. Can the cabinet make an effort to reduce this type of incident in the coming months?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u96	Sure, yeah, yeah, yeah. That's what we're doing. The conversations are also being held. Of course, it's terrible when that happens. It is totally unacceptable in all respects. These are the people who are now at the front of all of us trying to fight this enormous misery and then they are also confronted with this idiotic behavior. I fully agree with Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u97	Mr. Heerma. I also see Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Asscher and Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u98	I haven't answered a question yet. But that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u99	Almost 30 questions were asked in an hour. That was all because of a...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u100	An introductory remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u101	Yeah, it's an instructional remark. So I would like to give Mr Heerma the floor and give the Prime Minister the opportunity to answer the remaining questions. Then I'm gonna go back and see who else has questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u102	Mr President, I have a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u103	No, Mr. Asscher, I'm going to Mr. Heerma first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u104	I want to make a point of order. I think we can do that right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u105	And that's, uh, more interruptions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u106	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u107	No? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u108	The Prime Minister just offered to suspend briefly because he didn't know the details of the oral mask advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u109	I'm willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u110	He relied on a treatment advice of 8 September to ignore an opinion of 28 September from the OMT to start wearing mouth masks throughout the country, in all nursing homes. I don't think that's right. If scarcity is not the basis for this, I would like to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to suspend briefly after he has answered Mr Heerma's question. Because this affects a very large group of vulnerable elderly people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u111	First of all, scarcity plays a zero role here; it does not play a role at all. That's the point. In the division of roles, we agreed that, in preparing for this debate, we should focus all three on a number of aspects of which we will respond. This means that Mrs Van Ark has taken the precise answer, in detail, on this point. I have just tried to answer a few first questions at the request of the Chamber. It also seems to me appropriate, also towards the cabinet, that the Chamber respects this division of roles somewhat. So my request would really be to have Mrs Van Ark answer those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u112	But I'm gonna go to... No, Mr. Asscher, you've made a point of order. Since Mr Heerma has not been able to ask questions so far, I would now like to give him that opportunity. Then let's see how we handle this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u113	But scarcity doesn't matter here. I'm really gonna say that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u114	You shouldn't go screaming in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u115	Sorry, excuse me. You're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u116	This hammer phase, which the Prime Minister mentioned, is also used to agree clear consequences: what happens when? The Irish example has already been mentioned. At the same time, there is still talk about a toolbox, but I think that mayors have found it difficult to take action in recent weeks when that local fire was there. After a long consultation, a minimum variant was chosen. Isn't it better to have automatic consequences like they are in that Irish model, then to get back into a situation in which mayors might find it too exciting and where the net is taking too long? And is it a toolbox or are we just going to go to such an Irish model, with which you say: if that situation occurs regionally, then these are the consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u117	A long way. You just don't want some kind of doomsday machine that, whatever happens, does something at a certain value. I do not think Mr Heerma wants that either. So you always want to make the administrative weighting. You also want advice from the GGD in a region and you also want to consult with the security region. But what we now have in mind is, in fact, a toolbox, but with the Jetten motion stuck over it. Then you are very close to the Irish model, but not with that automation that always happens. But again, I think we agree on that. In addition, you will always have a mix in a certain phase. It always means a number of national support measures that have to be done anyway, plus a number of things that can then be additional in the region and that also take specific account of the situation in that region.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u118	I don't think anyone wants a doomsday machine, but we don't want another stage in which the virus starts to rise, to be questioned by mayors for days again, and especially tough statements to be made when they think something needs to be done nationally. Then I don't think you need a doomsday machine, but you need clarity, so you don't have to talk for days about closing a pub an hour earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u119	That is the aim; I agree. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a number of questions that have been asked. The advantage of all the interruptions is, of course, that a lot has already been done. We've been through this. I'm getting to the mouth caps.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u120	I shall return to the point of order after replying to Mr Heerma's question. I certainly get the impression that this question has now been answered. I think you can ask the Chamber how it thinks about it. I think we should discuss that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u121	So my response was to get Mrs Van Ark to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u122	That was not the question to the Prime Minister. He has previously offered a suspension, but now he says that on second thought he would prefer Mrs Van Ark to answer that question. I want to hear it from the Chamber now. The answer we have now received is simply not correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u123	But if the Secretary of State for Medical Care goes into it later...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u124	She'll correct me too if I was wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u125	Yes. The Prime Minister's in there, and you're in there, too. Then that question can be asked. Because the order is now: first the Prime Minister, I understand. And then what?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u126	My idea was: then he, and then her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u127	Mr President, I do not agree with that, so I maintain my point of order to suspend briefly now and then get the answer from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u128	If I may briefly make a supporting argument? The OMT states that preventive use of those protective devices...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u129	But that question has been asked. It is a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u130	Yeah, I'll respond to that. I think it's something about the Prime Minister. The OMT says that this is one of the things to get on that so-called 0.9. So it also affects the strategy we choose to control the virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u131	That's what Van Ark's gonna say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u132	Good. It's actually about the order. We can also...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u133	Mr President, I would like to propose that we simply hear the reply of the Minister for Medical Care. If we still have questions to the Prime Minister, we'll just get the Prime Minister back to the cathedral before we move on to the second term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u134	Is everyone okay with that? Mr. Dijkhoff? Mr. Heerma? Fine. Mr. Klaver, too. Oh, no. Excuse me. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u135	I come to the mouth caps, and not to the care, because I have already said that Mrs Van Ark is going into this more closely. So the broader question about the mouth caps. You can see that there is a need for more clarity in the Chamber and yet also in society. You will notice that there is also broad agreement in the Chamber that we need to take a step in that direction. I also believe that everyone has said that this is not the very large measure that brings us back to 0.9. No one's expecting that. I didn't hear anyone say that either. But it can contribute, has been said. Moreover, it is also important to draw as much as possible together. Mr. Chairman. That is why I would like to propose, also given the wish of the Chamber, that a clear and urgent advice on mouth masks should be given to the whole of the Netherlands. That'll work out for the Cabinet. So it's about wearing those non-medical mouth-nose masks in shops and other public spaces. There are a lot of questions behind that, I'm telling you honestly. You need to talk to public transport companies very precisely about what that means for the stations. On the trains it's an obligation. Then at a station it's probably a... Anyway, we're gonna find out exactly what's going on. Of course, we didn't have that chance. This advice applies from now on: wear a mouth and nose mask in public space, such a non-medical mouth and nose mask. But we cannot answer all kinds of questions that will then come. We really need time for that. We think we worked out all these questions by 6:00 a.m. on Friday, et cetera. You could also say that it will enter into force. You can make it work now. There's a few questions that come up. Let me get them all. The first is, of course, what that means for the implementation. Firstly, we do not want to make shop owners responsible for enforcement at all. We just want to say that I think that this also has support here, give the shop owner the opportunity to say: I want you to set up one of these things and if you don't, you won't come in. It's not that you let the shop owner maintain, but the shop owner has the choice to do it or not. So that is one aspect that I would like to see supported. Perhaps later this could be even more formal, in the form of a motion, or in the debate here. We'll see. That's one question that arises. My point of view would be: if you do, make sure that the shop owner can refuse someone if he does not want to follow the advice, while the shop owner does. Or the cafe owner, or another operator of a facility. Then it is a very wide application. That's actually inevitable. It's about almost everywhere you don't see the sky, although it won't go on. It would be shops, museums, town halls, stations, airports, parking garages, gas stations, restaurants, cafés, theatres, concert halls, unless you sit down. That is a second aspect. I think I got that right. So if you're sitting down, you can take it off. I think this makes sense, too. When I listen to it that way, this means that it also applies to the contact professions, both to the service provider and to the customer. I would argue that this should not apply in secondary schools, i.e. in secondary education. There already applies that the teacher must keep a distance of 1.5 meters from the students. I myself stand in my own pocket on Thursday morning, neatly at a distance of 1.5 meters from the students. The students are allowed to come within 1.5 meters of each other. That's how the deal's made. However, Arie Slob, the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media, is in constant contact with education. Of course, new insights can always be created within education, which means that people want to do things differently. I've been thinking about whether you could ask for an OMT opinion on it, but the OMT will already see us coming if we go there and ask for a new OMT opinion now, while we had already asked for an opinion. I don't think you should. That was the third aspect. So the first one is the shopkeeper, I say that for a moment at home, but it also applies to other operators who can say that he wants it and that you don't come in if you don't. Two: it also applies to the contact professions and so on. The third aspect is secondary schools, secondary schools, of which you say: not there for the time being. Then there is one last, big point: is it an obligation or not? There were very different views about that. I can imagine that for the time being we will leave this to an urgent opinion, and also look at how things are going in practice: how is this going? In the meantime, the covid law will also run. I believe Asscher and others have already said that there is a hook in that law. It can be done by means of an amendment and also by means of a regulation under one of the articles. I believe this last one is the Asscher Route. I'm told by lawyers that an amendment is probably just as firmer, but we'll see about that. My thought would be that we would agree for the time being that it is an urgent opinion and that we would see how things are going. That covid law is being dealt with at some point. That may be a moment to see if there is a need for further action. Then the conclusion could be summarised: the urgent advice is to wear a non-medical nose mask in all those rooms. If the Netherlands is looking now, it is now going to do so. We're not organizing a separate press conference. This is being broadcast on television. Everybody's watching, of course. So that's true. Then there will be a lot of questions to find out. Our reaction will be to understand that. We're going to answer a lot of questions that still come up at 6:00 p.m. on Friday, but I've already tried to outline a direction. Inside there is the point of the schools, as I just said, the point of enforceability, as I just said, and the point of the contact professions, as I just said. Shopkeepers or other owners of a public facility can choose and say: if you don't, you won't come in. I think this should also be part of the agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u136	I'll see if the Prime Minister has answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u137	Yeah, about the non-medical nose masks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u138	Thank you to the cabinet for this progressive insight. One rural line simply helps clear communication on how to deal with non-medical mouth caps in those indoor areas in the coming time. Two questions in response to the Prime Minister's commitment, first of all about the shopkeepers. The Prime Minister says that a shopkeeper can refuse someone if he refuses to put on a mask. Does the opposite apply, therefore, that the shopkeeper does not necessarily have to stand at the entrance as an agent and allow people to enter?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u139	Yes. The point is: it is an urgent opinion. But if a shopkeeper wants you to always wear a mouth and nose mask in his shop, he can refuse you if you don't. That's part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u140	I think it is very good to make that explicit, so that the shopkeeper knows that he is free to make a choice in it. That national advice is, of course, mainly aimed at all those customers, so that they can adapt their own behavior. A mouth cap in those hallways, on those stairs and in those lifts could help greatly to increase the number of contact hours in education. Can the Prime Minister imagine that wearing masks in school buildings, until you are in the classroom or in the lecture hall, could be sensible, as this would allow for more contact education?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u141	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u142	Then there is the second question, which is about education. I very much agree with the Prime Minister that once you sit on your chair, you do not have to wear a mask. Then you don't have the risk of getting closer than five feet together. But we now see that a lot of educational institutions can give relatively little physical education because the bottleneck in the corridors, at the stairs and at the elevator determines how much of your educational building can be used for teaching.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u143	I wonder if what Mr Jetten is saying here is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u144	I have checked that at many educational institutions today, and this is what they are running into now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u145	I think it's true that young people in high school, even when they're over 18, don't have to stick to the 1.5 meter in the school building, not in the hallway and not in the classroom. So that doesn't affect the school's capacity either. The teacher has his shielded box in the classroom; so you can no longer intervene along the more classic road, but that is also good. This means that all the distance between teacher and student is now arranged. I believe that Mr Asscher has also referred to it once before, that there is still the risk of colliding in the corridor. Now they're such fleeting contacts that I don't know if that's where the infections come from either. The Minister for secondary education also told me: do not commit to this, I am talking to these schools. Of course, you could also agree that we are going to do all of this now and that, as far as the schools are concerned, we should see how the talks that Minister Slob has with them are going to see what the weighted average of views is. Otherwise we are suddenly going to impose this on them on a Wednesday afternoon, which I do not think is wise either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u146	This reasoning for secondary education, I think, can largely be followed. Of course, it is always good to keep updating the field of education in terms of the directives we have agreed on, but specifically for MBO, higher education and universities, I actually get the signal from almost all educational institutions: we could give much more contact education because our lecture halls are large enough to maintain the 1.5 metres. As an example, I would like to mention the Vrije Universiteit in Amsterdam. There are quite high buildings there, so there is a lot of use of stairs and lifts. Because you can only get in the elevator alone or with two men, there is indeed a limit in the number of contact hours one can give. There could be a mouth cap there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u147	Be careful, because then we're gonna do something that I don't think is wise. We now have two places in the Netherlands that we recognise are not always successful, namely public transport and Schiphol. Then a mouth cap is handy. But what I wouldn't be in favour of is saying on a Wednesday afternoon, "we're going in all places where we can't add this now," because then we suddenly added the whole of higher education. I think it is very good that we are going to do this, and we must also join forces with the wishes of society. That's what we've done before with the schools keeping them open where they didn't have to. We thought this didn't have to be on this scale. A large majority would like it. No problem at all. It is also a question of giving each other good form and support. But here we go a step further. Then you really ignore all the advice that says: where they can maintain 1.5 meters slightly, that is much better than not to do so. You'd actually say that in higher education you don't have to hold that five feet. I'd really think that's a step too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u148	Finally. I think that in the lecture halls and in the canteens in those educational institutions, insofar as they may be open at all, you have to maintain 1.5 metres. No doubt about that. But I would argue that, in addressing this corona crisis, we should not only look at the virus purely but also at the impact of all measures on our broad well-being, educational disadvantages and so on. You do not have to say in this debate that we are going to do so now. In view of the fact that the whole Chamber is now saying 'let's look at masks differently', I ask the cabinet to talk to the higher education field again to see if at least in the corridors, on the stairs and in the lifts could help a mouth cap to allow more contact education, so that in the lecture hall the 1.5 meters remain the most important measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u149	But also in that hallway and in the elevator they have to maintain that 1.5 meters. I don't have a lift in AZ, because that's so small, but if I go to VWS on Monday to have the coalition meeting with Hugo de Jonge, then we also have a lift in which you can sometimes go alone and sometimes alone. Of course, that's the same thing. That's no different than in a university building. You don't want to say that because someone's wearing a mouth cap, you can have three or four in that elevator anyway, because that's a real risk. So I really wouldn't be in favour of that. We'll keep talking to everyone and everything. I say that in a very general sense, always and with everyone in conversation, but not with the aim of coming here now with an extension. I find that risky.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u150	You may clarify.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u151	Really last but not least, Mr. Chairman. Here, in the end, there is a fundamental problem in the corona approach. If we continue to look only at inhibition of the virus, then we will close our eyes to the long-term social damage caused by these measures. I would like to ask the cabinet once again in the coming months to take better account of the impact of this approach on the feelings of loneliness, on educational disadvantages and mention it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u152	Let me at least say what has been done so far. We recognise in two places in society that it is not always possible: in public transport and in Schiphol. That's where we made the non-medical nose mask mandatory. Expanding places where it doesn't do well and forcing the mouth-nose mask, which we know adds so little extra to the protection, is a very fundamental step. Let's not push it too fast. I agree with Jetten in general: we must continue to look at the enormous social damage and impact. But let's not take that step now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u153	Mr Van der Staaij, then Mr Wilders and Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u154	Thank you for the Prime Minister's response to that point of the mouth caps, which live wide. Shouldn't you be showing more movement there? He indicates that there are quite a few questions: how exactly do you do that, where and where not? I assume we will be informed of this further by letter. Will the Prime Minister also address the issue of advice or duty? What are the considerations in this regard? We can imagine something with advice, but with duty you get a huge Juridization. All that needs to be done exactly. Is it all worth it, should you want it, also in the light of how we have come a long way with regulations like not giving hands, handwashing and other behavior regulations?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u155	My position here would be: it is an urgent opinion, point. For those who want to regulate it legally, I say: we are not going to do that now. But you're gonna have to see how it goes in practice for the next week. I'm not getting ahead of myself right now. Now the position is: urgent advice, point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u156	I think that's important. It was said for a moment: if you want to, come up with an amendment...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u157	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u158	That should not do justice, it should not be easy to ride. We have to understand each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u159	Let's peel it off. First perhaps again to the OMT, because they have said: in places where it is not possible to do public transport and Schiphol Airport you have to do it, because there it adds something. Later they said: in areas where things are moving very quickly, it may also be wise to do so. That is why we said on Monday: do it specifically for retail. for retail trade. The Chamber says: do it wider, also because a few regions are already doing it more extensively, not only in shops but also in public buildings. This leads to a lack of clarity. There have been many other considerations in the political groups to say: do it wider. A few groups speculated on the possibility of making more binding. Then you get the question: how do you do it best? You can do it through the Public Health Act, in anticipation of the fact that you are going to regulate it in the covid law. But it's legally pretty fragile. It's quite a big procedure and it's a question of whether it holds. Then Asscher said: do it through an arrangement under the covid law. Officials said: if you want to force it, it might be even better to do so by means of an amendment. With that, I'd like to outline how, if you want to settle it, it's best to do it legally. I am not in favour of that. Our position is urgent advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u160	The Prime Minister gives a clear answer, but of course the Chamber is more than Mr Asscher. And that's a good thing, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u161	You've been working so well together lately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u162	With all due respect to Mr Asscher and good cooperation, the Chamber is fortunately more than Mr Asscher. My group is firmly and firmly opposed to this corona law that is about to come. We shall have that debate with each other. It should not be that because one or two groups, including Mr Asscher's, say here 'well, it is now a national opinion, but actually until the law comes and then we amend it for a while'... That's not how we got married. It's an advice, it's not a duty. I understand, Mr President-in-Office, that you also have no intention of making this a duty, and I do not think that the majority of the House wants to make it a duty at the moment, and that there will not be a duty at the moment? It should not be something like 'we do it now and soon there will be a duty'. No, we're doing it now because that's what the Chamber wants, and I think that's very sensible. No duty, period. And not later by the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u163	Not if it's up to me, but you're with us about that law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u164	Not if it's the government's fault.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u165	No, we are not preparing an amendment or a letter of amendment. But, of course, we're co-legislators.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u166	I think it's wise to do this. I also understand that there are still some issues of elaboration. I hope the Netherlands can think: this is just one of the basic rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u167	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u168	Now we have instructions and tips for handwashing. There are also songs from K3 that you can't get out of your head to help you hold out for half a minute. But I do hope that we will not end up in a situation where we have to look at each building whether or not we should. It shouldn't be the case that people think, "You don't have to do it here," so I'm gonna take it off right away. I don't have to do it outside either, but if you walk outside and you always have it with you, you can also consider putting it on when it gets crowded. I would like to emphasise, however, and I hope that the cabinet will agree that it is in no way possible to do less to one of the other basic rules by wearing a mouth cap. I don't know if that's gonna happen, but I'm afraid that might happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u169	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u170	That's gotta be pretty clear. That will not be possible with the advice. The basic rules we had, they stay. That's where the mask comes in, but it doesn't give you points that you can pick up somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u171	That's crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u172	You can't say to someone at the station on an escalator: I have a mouth cap on, so it's okay if I'm too close. Being too close is always wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u173	Can I underline that very, very, very much? That's crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u174	We already had three basic rules and there's actually a fourth. I think that's what we're gonna do here. We're going from three to four basic rules. The question I have is about its mandatory nature. Let us say that there is broad support to advise it throughout the Netherlands. But from the different regions you can hear the need of mayors who say: we want to be able to move forward if necessary. That's what the Public Health Act is for. Is the government also looking at those critical regions to give a clue, so that the directors there have more in their hands to maintain this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u175	No. That is the debate we must have. I think it is a good idea to give it an urgent opinion. Would a majority in the Chamber say it should be an obligation... I've killed the flag anyway and then we'll kill it even further. But I wouldn't be for that. I think it's good to make it an urgent advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u176	On this point, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u177	What I like to say is that it is how the Chamber has come together from left to right and that we are taking a step forward here today. People are looking at this debate and thinking: hey, they're not just falling over each other, they're agreeing and they're taking a step forward. What I am asking is not a total ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u178	I got that. You said: in the regions where it runs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u179	We have also said that the basic rules we have, for example those 1.5 metres, must be enforceable. There's a clue to that too. I ask whether the cabinet is prepared to give this indication, if regions ask for it. That is something other than a total obligation for the whole of the Netherlands. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u180	It's gonna be a fine. There is no support for that in the Chamber now. I wouldn't be for that. I would be in favour of making it an urgent recommendation and seeing how things are going over the next few weeks. At some point, the covid law will be dealt with here. Then everyone can make another decision about it. But I wouldn't be in favour of that with Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u181	This microphone, Mr. Asscher, the middle one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u182	Fortunately, the Chamber is not just Mr Wilders. I think that should be remembered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u183	That is not what Mr Wilders is hearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u184	He thinks he is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u185	Geert! Geert! He's talking about you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u186	Mr. Wilders, let's wake up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u187	I said, fortunately, the Chamber does not only consist of Mr Wilders, but he thinks it does, because he keeps talking to himself. I understand very well that the cabinet and part of the Chamber do not want to impose this now. I guess there's nothing wrong with making a rule like that and taking it seriously, you also say there's a legal basis for it. I get that. I hear the Prime Minister say: if society wants us to, we will. We've heard from the cabinet for six months that it's not working and that's why we're not doing it. If we want to make this a serious behavior rule that people adhere to, we also need another story. Then the Prime Minister must take the people with him. Why are we doing this? We're doing it to protect each other. Why is it important? You have it with you and I have it with me. Good things. But I'm counting on it. I think that this crisis is too serious for the attitude "you ask, we turn." I'd like to make that request here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u188	If that is the impression, it is good that Mr Asscher came forward for a moment, because that is certainly not the case. I think that as a cabinet in such a serious crisis, in which you try to find broad support in society and in the Lower House that does not always succeed, but often you have to look at wishes that are very much alive. Earlier this year there was an example with education. The experts said it didn't have to be closed, but parents, teachers and a large part of the Chamber said, "Do it now." Then you should see if you say with your fist on the table that it should stay open or that you move along. With the masks it is even easier because we have said before that there is some effect of those things in public transport and at Schiphol Airport, where you cannot keep those 1.5 meters. The OMT has also said that they can have added value in situations where the number of infections is rapidly increasing. That is one of the reasons why we said: let's do it in the three regions that are now turning red. I agree with Lodewijk Asscher: if you agree with each other now, we'll all go for that, too. Then we're gonna do that seriously, and then we're gonna be full of it. He can absolutely count on that. No, we're not half pregnant. This is what we're gonna do. I promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u189	I'd like to know how far you're going with answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u190	Can I ask Mr Segers to stress, in the context of the environment, that you also have three-layered textile masks that you can reuse and wash, for the people with a smaller scholarship? I think that's better than putting them in the food bank packages. The marriage is exempted from a maximum company size of four. That would also be very complicated, because then you can only bring one more witness. Funerals and ecclesiastical marriages are exempted in the context of the practice of religion, both from the size of the group and from the size of the group. How's that going in practice? Marriage doesn't fall under the maximum of four, but the party after that, you just don't have to do it. The advice is really not to do that. If you do, it'll be a very small dinner with the four of us. A lot has been said about curfew. I don't think I need to go into that now. It's a conceivable option in the OMT recommendation. Of course, there are a lot of hooks and eyes to this, including legal and social issues. I get that, but we don't have the luxury of getting things done forever. Mr. Chairman. I would like to turn to a few other questions about COOVID-19 before I come to the economic aspects. One of those questions was about October 6th. I think it's very good to let that go on. No way to cancel, right this time of year. You just have to do it again, abstracted from where you stand in a possible revival. There are many people who are having a hard time, many entrepreneurs who are having a hard time and many people who are having a hard time, including young people. I think it's really good to think about that. It's a period. It starts on October 6th, but doesn't end on that day. We agreed that what we're discussing in the Catshuis session stays in rooms. Of course, the participants can talk about that. It has brought me a great deal to talk to people intrusively about loss, about loneliness. There were also people who, for example, were able to become active again by the church in a very different way. So there were also very positive stories. Considering what a huge impact this has, both medically and socially. So thank you again for the suggestion. We'll repeat that with people with vulnerable health soon. That will probably be better now via Zoom, but we're going to try to organize that. Turning it around, keeping older people away and others away: I say again that I wouldn't be in favour of that. Young people are not invulnerable to the virus. They too end up in the hospital. The key factor here is that we do not want to make divisions in society. So I guess we shouldn't. Flights to and from areas with orange or red travel advice have already been discussed in the Chamber. I thought that was with the Minister of Infrastructure and the Environment. The fact is that flights also take place here to facilitate vital transport of goods and necessary travel of passengers. It really lies with the travelers themselves whether they travel or not. The travel advice is completely clear. If you continue to limit that, there is a risk that necessary journeys will be put at risk as well. However, the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment has also said the necessary about this. Maybe we don't have to do that about this. Mr. Chairman. One more question on this point. It's about the schools, too. That was a question from Mr Asscher. In fact, I think that we have already discussed them mostly in the context of the mouth caps. I don't know if anything else stayed down. I'll take a look at his question. The masks were in there, too. I think we've answered that question about the schools now. Let me take a look at Mr Asscher. He's not gonna get mad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u191	Don't invite him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u192	Then I'm not gonna go any further and I'm gonna move on to the economic side.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u193	Before you go any further: Mr Van der Staaij and then Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u194	I mentioned the weddings as an example of predictability. There is nothing there at all when it comes to festivity. Previously, there were possibilities with 30 or 100 people depending on space. This also applies in regions such as Zeeland, where it is not really so much on the agenda. Does the Prime Minister understand that? This affects not only the people, but also the entrepreneurs. Is there enough thought about skipping all those intermediate steps we did before? Four actually doesn't mean anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u195	Yeah, but okay. What we modified yesterday is that the marriage is of course the 30 itself and not the 4. For funerals we have already extended it compared to spring, because then there were also strong restrictions for funerals. There is neither the 4 or the 30 rule. I understand how hard that is, but we've been having a whole discussion about whether we're doing enough. I would really argue in favour of agreeing on this, however difficult it may be. At the wedding itself people can congratulate at a safe distance on the spot, but do the party later when it's safe again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u196	Again, this is in the broader context of predictability. People didn't see this coming this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u197	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u198	Well, there'd be restrictions. But it is also about radicality now and the intermediate steps, the reduction of numbers. We're not going back to June 15th, but actually even further back. My question is whether this can be explicitly taken into account in the weighting of the effects of this measure, including on the economic side.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u199	I wouldn't want to change this no matter how hard it is. I'd rather say to everyone, "Come together with a few thousand people in a big party room." Of course, that's the best part, but I can't do that right now. I get this, huh, but take for example theaters who heard Tuesday night they had to go back to 30 people for three weeks. Predictability was not there in many respects. I understand this immediately and I do not think that we should distinguish between Zeeland and Limburg on the one hand and the rest on the other. We've decided to do it nationally because it's like this. We don't have to differentiate that again. I think we should be just as tough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u200	Finally. Again, I can understand all the measures very well. Those restrictions are motivated by the possibility of reducing the spread of the virus. But perhaps the combination can still be made with what is requested in the Jetten motion. In a glance, you'll remember what the perspective looks like. Is it all or nothing in a manner of speaking, or can there be something in between?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u201	This is, of course, for the next three weeks. It's not meant forever that we have a normal wedding again. Definitely not. There are now quite a lot of weddings and parties in the Netherlands and we know that there is a risk of contamination in those places. Those are all extra places. In any case, it is good to say once: apart from the fact that our behavior is important, the sum of the number of movements and activities also contributes to the risk of further spread of the virus. For example, sport. The weekend for last weekend there was too much noise made in stadiums, but it is not so that we decided to go and bully the stadiums. Not at all, because you saw last weekend that everyone was doing a huge amount of work to do that much more decently. But the sum total of the sport as a whole, both among amateurs and professional, was so large that we made the choice to let the sport go on, but not to do everything around it anymore. This leads to a huge reduction in the number of travel movements with risks that you subconsciously bump into each other or run alongside each other and spread the virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u202	Mrs Van Esch and then Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u203	Two questions, but I'll deal with the flight ban first. During the first corona wave, we had imposed flight bans for a number of areas, including Italy, Spain and Austria. I don't see why the second wave is suddenly different. Unfortunately, I say, but we see areas in which it colors red. Now you can also see areas of red color in the Netherlands, so Dutch people can go to other countries and cause infections there. I don't know why we can't do that now if we did before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u204	Strictly speaking, it's possible. Only, take for example the flights to China that were not desirable for some time. It was important, however, that flights continued to take place, if only to clean up our supplies of medical equipment. In addition, of course, there may be urgent family conditions; humanitarian reasons, people in care who may need to travel. There are so many reasons why you shouldn't completely shut down the flights. At the same time, the Foreign Affairs Committee strongly advises where it is best not to go. There isn't much left where you can go outside the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u205	But that still doesn't answer my question: what makes this second wave different from the first wave, in which we turned on flight bans, because we risked...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u206	A few, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u207	Three countries, I know: at least Italy, Spain and Austria. I wouldn't know what the difference is, so we won't do it now, if you see red-colored countries now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u208	At that time too, it was very short, for a few countries, at the height of the crisis in mid-March. Again, it has enormous effects on repatriation, humanitarian, family and so on. I don't think you should do it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u209	Absolutely. But with the measures we are taking now, we are doing so now, in a lot of cases? We are doing it now, for example, with catering entrepreneurs who have to close earlier? So I still find it strange that we are taking very tough measures in this, which we say we think makes sense and that we are doing that with each other now, while we are still saying to aviation: no, boys, that is also very important, but we are just going to continue flying. It stays, as far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u210	Oh, well, nobody's flying now anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u211	Well... That's a nice quote on my second question. I just checked it out on lunch break. There are still plenty of offers made by travel agencies to fly during the autumn holidays. That's still happening. You can still go on fun trips, and it's still offered to go to red areas and it's still advertised for that. Several motions have already been tabled on this subject. It can't be that this is still happening, and that we're still not taking very hard action on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u212	This has been a whole debate with the Minister of IenW.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u213	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u214	I do not have the latest state of that debate here. I would really like to refer to that. I think that's all drilled out here with Cora van Nieuwenhuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u215	That's right. This was discussed in detail last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u216	That can be true; only, it just keeps going on. We could have talked about it last week. We also had a corona debate last week, and we are not saying today that we can no longer talk about what we discussed last week. It's not like that, unfortunately. We can still see that's how it goes. There are still travel organizations that do that. Autumn vacation's at the door, and it's still happening. So I want an answer to that. What are we gonna do about that? Those planes are gonna be full again, we don't have a foot and a half in planes, and we're just gonna fly to red areas. We cannot just refer to last week's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u217	I shall come back to that in the second term. Then I'm going to ask Cora van Nieuwenhuizen what she said about it in the debate last week, and I'm going to repeat it here. I just don't have that ready, but I'm gonna go ask her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u218	I would like to say one more time: to repeat is not going to be enough as far as I am concerned. I give you the opportunity to return to it in the second term, but I can already tell you that I do not think that repetition is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u219	But that debate took hours! I've been tracking it from a distance. I don't suddenly have a new insight since last Thursday, I guess. But I'm gonna look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u220	You will come back to the question, and you will answer the question seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u221	I'll come back and I'll even try to look at it creatively.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u222	Yes. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u223	I'm gonna talk to you about the masks. I would nevertheless advise the Prime Minister to repeat clearly here whether to send a letter to the Chamber, or to take a camera out of here right away, because it is simply not taken over by the media. If you look now at what is on the ANP, on the website of the Volkskrant or on the website of De Telegraaf, you will see that all of them have advice to wear mouth caps in public space. Nowhere says public indoor space. That doesn't matter! People need to know clearly: where should they, or no, where do you advise them because it is not a duty to wear it? Please explain this correctly, because if the ANP and the biggest media websites in the Netherlands already write it wrong, something has gone wrong in the communication. I would hate for people to think right away that they should do it differently than they are actually asked to do it. Again, an opinion... Yes, you can look at those journalists, but you also have a role to play.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u224	No, to the camera. I'm on live TV right now, and I'm gonna answer your question. If the NOS can turn me on that camera, I'll do it live.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u225	You're doing a wiggle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u226	This is the case from now on, ladies and gentlemen in the Netherlands, that perhaps not the whole Chamber, but a large part of the Chamber is urgently advised to use a mouth-nosed mask in public interiors. There will be a lot of questions for you about that. We will try to get them all together in the next few days as well as possible. That won't be perfect. There will still be questions after that. But the main rule is: put on a mouth and nose mask inside. So that's in the café, in the restaurant and in the shop, and it's when you enter a government building, or a parking garage or the station. Set up a non-medical mouth-nose mask in public indoor spaces. If you sit down, you can turn it off.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u227	That used to be P.O. Box 51.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u228	I'll check the camera. I don't know if it's on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u229	Compliment for this text. But if you don't mind me adding something else, I don't have to go outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u230	No, so it is indeed in the public inner space. Two things could lead to a misunderstanding. The first is that you should put it outside as far as we are concerned. That's not advice. The second misunderstanding could be that it is legally enforced. No, it's urgent advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u231	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u232	It's nice how we do it, isn't it? Then we get the economic side of the crisis. Let me take a look at some of the questions that have been asked. The support package that was dealt with last week is breathing. I'd like to sketch it briefly. Think of the NOW, for example. In the event of more turnover losses, a company also receives more aid to bear the wage costs, as the level of turnover loss is included in the calculation of the subsidy amount. The NOW 3 also allows the wage bill to fall slightly, without leading to a reduction in the subsidy. The aid to compensate for the fixed costs is also breathing. The TVL provides more aid as the fall in turnover appears to be greater and has also been increased. There was a problem with the Tozo. The power test would be introduced there from 1 October. In consultation with VNG, Divosa and municipalities, it was decided to introduce the limited power test on 1 April instead of 1 October. There is also a great deal of money available, almost 0.5 billion, for the cultural sector. And there is a great deal of accompanying policy, the most important of which is perhaps the 1.4 billion for guidance in finding new work by UWV and municipalities, further training, additional support for vulnerable people and additional support for people at high risk of poverty. Moreover, the policy of postponing tax payments has been extended this week. Entrepreneurs will have 36 months to repay their accumulated debt as of 1 July 2021. The whole package runs for nine months, so we keep course, even at a second wave. But, of course, in the next few days, we will have a very precise discussion with, for example, Mr President, I also said this on Monday at the press conference: the social partners, the employers' and workers' organizations. That's in a broad sense. But, of course, we will also be looking very closely at what additional problems might arise in sectors. We will monitor this very closely and, if necessary, consider whether additional measures should be taken. But this package in itself is breathing along. That is also an answer to Mr Wilders' question. He said, "Take the food service to the table." That is one of those sectors that we are watching very carefully. But in itself it is of course covered by the TVL, the NOW and sometimes even under the Tozo, but certainly under the first two. They're breathing. But if we need to, we're definitely gonna have a conversation with that, too. So we're monitoring that very precisely. This is particularly true of Mr Wilders' question about the catering industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u233	Do you have any further questions at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u234	Then I think I've answered everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u235	You've answered everything. Short question on that last point, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u236	Just about the catering industry, Madam President. This sector is being taken disproportionately hard. But especially because of the nature of the measures, this sector, in which 500 000 people work, is hard hit. I am referring to the closing of the tent after the event. What is it now? 10:00 p.m. Before, it was a little later. In part, the sector is helped by easing some measures from 1 January and the last quarter of the NOW. But that's not enough. The catering industry prefers to sit at the table with the cabinet to see if there is specifically for that sector... I swear to you, if we keep this up, we won't have any catering left in this country next year. That can't be true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u237	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u238	It is the sector that is the most affected and very keen to work with it. Most people and businesses in the hospitality industry also cooperate. I told you last week that it was just a few clusters. They are there now, I believe, a little more... and that the number of infections is very limited. I think it's 160, 5.9% of the total in the last week. Are you prepared to sit down with the catering industry at the table to see what you can do specifically for that sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u239	I can say that a conversation took place literally on September 24th and that we continue that conversation. That's exactly what we're going to do. Then we'll see how the existing arrangements work. That's where we have to leave.I'm talking about the NOW, the TVL and the Tozo. We are also going to see whether these measures pose problems. Yeah, they're gonna be trouble anyway. I can see that. Of course, they have enormous effects. But they are not adequately covered by the regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u240	Maybe there's something I'm going to hear about that, but I'm gonna need some extras for the catering industry. I would ask the Prime Minister, if he has had those talks, to inform the Chamber. My second and final question, which I may also be able to put to Minister De Jonge, is the following. Minister De Jonge promised me last week that he would have the GGDs call about where those clusters are. I see him nodding, so we'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u241	Yeah, he'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u242	Then I would just like to ask the Prime Minister whether he would like to keep us informed of the progress of discussions with the catering industry and of any results.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u243	I'm probably not gonna do all those conversations myself. Probably the trade ministers will have those talks. Then you talk about Mona Keijzer, the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, the Minister for Economic Affairs and possibly also the Minister for Social Affairs. Of course, it is also about contact with social partners. Let's take a look. I get the question. We're gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u244	Short question. Mr Asscher, then Mr Klaver and then Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u245	The Prime Minister says that the package as we have it breathes with us. But these measures will come to an end. This is about the catering industry, which I very much agree with, but it is also about the cultural sector, for example. In a church you can get more than 30 together, but you need an exemption from the mayor if it's for culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u246	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u247	I therefore believe that it is necessary to consider what additional support is needed. The cabinet would do well to return to the Chamber in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u248	At least we are looking at what is needed in addition to the packages in all sectors. I'm just not gonna make a commitment right now. We really need to look at that very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u249	Yes. Mr Klaver and then Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u250	I had the same question as Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u251	Oh, you don't have to. I don't know you like that... Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u252	Don't push me!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u253	I specifically asked if we could leave the austerity at this point. We go to the NOW from 90% fee to 80% and the plan was even then 70%, 60%. That 10% could be like the headbeat for a lot of organizations. Because we are now taking additional measures, it is a question for the sectors that it affects whether we should not retain the 90% they have just had until 1 October.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u254	I think it is true that on 1 October, for NOW 3, the wage bill can be slightly reduced without this leading to a reduction in the subsidy, so that this adjustment can also be made to the economic situation. I therefore believe that the NOW is also sufficiently supportive, but we continue to monitor it very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u255	Good. Thank you. Then I would like to take this opportunity to suspend for five minutes. After that, the Minister for Medical Care will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u256	I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u257	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks to the Prime Minister for his first term, which, after a single interruption, turned out to be the Minister of All Affairs instead of just General Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u258	Did I do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u259	No, on the contrary. I think I can keep my first block fairly short. This was about the strategy, the approach, etc. I see you staring at that. Then I would like to answer a single question about testing and tracing. In the block of varia I actually have only one question at the moment and it is about the ventilation in the nursing homes. First of all, the questions that remain remain or a single answer to a question that has been asked about the approach and strategy. That is Mrs Marijnissen's question in conjunction with Mrs Van Brenk's question, namely what the cabinet is actually sending to, also in relation to how Germany does it. What we have developed is a regional approach...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u260	It's a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u261	As an old schoolmaster, I always wait for a moment to talk when it's somewhere in the corner of the class making noises. And it works. It always works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u262	Yeah, it's working. Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u263	We have developed a regional approach because we felt it was necessary to take account of regional differences. Then we looked at how you should take the step from the first level of risk to the second level of risk. To this end, we have looked at the thresholds applied in Germany with a slanted eye and chosen the signal value of 7 infections per 100,000. These infections per 100,000 you add up for a week and then you get 50 infections per 100,000: 7 per day, 50 per week. To go from the second to the third level of risk, we agreed to use the same threshold three times. That's how we get to 150 infections per 100,000. We have, of course, continued on what that would mean when you choose the ratio between the number of infectious people and the number of hospital admissions, which you can expect from them. That relationship is somewhat changing, by the way. We estimate that this corresponds approximately to the thresholds we had already set on ICU admissions and hospital admissions: 10 ICU admissions, 40 hospital admissions per day over the last three days on average. In fact, we have set those thresholds, also in relation to each other. From these thresholds, therefore, a region is scaled to a certain level of risk and from that point on, you expect action to be taken. Before the summer, we had a very serious debate about how it should be as customised as possible. That whole lockdown in the spring was a very unfocused set of measures. We had to, because we didn't have much visibility back then. We now have a lot of insight and can do much more justice to regional differences, so you will now have to use a much more precise package of measures. Customization, that was a bit of the motto. But in the meantime, I notice that with you and I feel it myself as well, you actually need more predictability: what if something is in a particular region? If you look at Germany, you can see that the value of 50 per 100 000 was used there until yesterday. Yesterday, 35 per 100,000................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Ireland's doing a little bit different. That doesn't really have a standard package of measures for local authority, but much more a package that is already clear to people: if you're assigned to a certain level of risk, that means for your marriage and that means doing it for shopping. That's basically on life events. I think that we actually have to take these two lessons to heart. That's why I want to do it like this. I'm going back to last week's Jetten motion. That means we're going to do a little bit longer on the implementation of that Jetten motion. It means, one, a toolbox intended for those who have come to those measures. These are indeed the GGD and the security region in a particular region. In doing so, I would like to look at measures that should at least be taken from the level of risk two. That 'at least' is important, because it gives clarity to the public, but also clarifies the expectations of a region and gives us the opportunity to learn from the past few weeks. That package of measures at level two must be serious enough. It has to be firm enough to do what it has to do, namely that R back below 1, the number of infections again below 50 per 100,000 in the last week and also the number of positive test results below 5%. That's actually kind of the goal you're aiming for. If everyone does that and it still works, then all regions are at risk 1. That's what you need to pursue. That's how it's supposed to be. This means, in terms of measures in the toolbox, that you are going to apply what you expect in any case and what measures you have to take. On top of that, tailor-made work will always be required, as cluster analysis can show that there is something different in one region than in the other. You can do that. This also has to do with the population composition, with the dense population density, for example. There are really regional differences between them which give rise to other measures. So I want to keep the possibility of tailor-made, but at least I want to take measures from that second level of risk. Then the public side. I think that first example is a very good example. That has been mentioned by several of you. I also got it out last week, I don't know how many corners and holes have been e-mailed and apphed; that Irish example is a really very good example. That's what we're looking at. This is not so much intended for mayors or presidents of the security region, but much more for the public. That'll give you something of predictability back. When we are done with that, I think we have found a good balance in the necessary customization on the one hand and the necessary predictability on the other, because people know where they stand. I do attach great importance to it, however, as the Prime Minister said, as well as to the fact that we always have the possibility of administrative weighting. By the way, that's what you see in other countries. There's always that possibility. Both as possible forward guidance is offered, to put it in good Dutch, but there is always a possibility of administrative weighting. Then the perspective. On October 13th, I would like to come again with a letter in the direction of your Chamber. In that we will indeed have to say how things are going from that moment on, but to be clear about that now and to outline the expectations clearly: we will really have to look at what is possible at that moment, because of course we cannot fully predict how things are going from now on. Imagine yesterday's message sounding so clearly, that was the message from the day before yesterday, from Monday, that it immediately has its effect in people's behaviour. Then it should be possible to actually reduce the number of people infected in the next week. At the same time, we know that the people who will be in hospital in the next few weeks are already infected. They've been infected in the last few weeks. So the number of hospitalizations will increase anyway. We are always dealing with a reproduction factor from two weeks ago. How this reproductive factor has developed over the past two weeks is not something we can see very well at the moment. This will have to be demonstrated by the figures we see coming out of the test streets and recordings in hospitals and ic's over the next few days. Only then can you say something about the reproductive factor that has developed in the past week. This will determine the extent to which the figures are evolving over the next few weeks. In short, we keep our finger on the pulse and make the decision that is necessary. You could say that, if things turn out to be very wrong, you can only maintain at least these measures or perhaps take another step on the way to something similar to a lockdown this spring. If it goes in the right direction, you may be able to go back to the regional approach for a single region, but that will really have to prove to be true. The expectation we can live up to is that we will make another decision in two weeks' time. Only, what decision will that be will depend very much on how things are going to be, how the figures are going to develop over the next week. Our goal remains to prevent care from becoming overburdened, which has been so throughout the approach, and to protect our vulnerable people as well as possible. We simply have to take the measures necessary for this. Mr Van der Staaij asks whether the testing and the BCO should not just be in order before we can think again about a more fine-meshed approach. In terms of the quality of what we're meant to mean by that risk classification, we have suggested that risk level 1, through tests and source and contact research, keeps excellent visibility and control of the virus. If you can fully perform that with a great speed in testing and the source and contact research in all its completeness, the prediction that has been passed on is that you should be able to lower the R by 0.4 compared to if you don't. This is, of course, still a very important approach. That is why the aim is to get all these regions at risk level 1. Because then you hold good grip through tests and source and contact research. If the numbers increase and you get to risk level 2, you can actually see that the vision is decreasing. It's not gone, but it's decreasing, through tests and source and contact research. That is of course what we have seen in the past few weeks: the testing took too long and the BCO could no longer be carried out in its completeness. That took the grip off, but you still have a grip on it. At that third level of risk, where Amsterdam, Rotterdam and The Hague are actually sitting on, the numbers are now so large that tests and source and contact research can no longer do what it might do at the time the contamination rate is lower. That's the point. That is why we must return to a lower level of risk. That is also the ongoing plea of the GGDs in our direction: of course, it is true that we need to scale up in terms of testing and in terms of source and contact research, but with only tests and source and contact research you are not going to control the virus. So that contamination doesn't take place on the test street, but rather. Then tests and source and contact research can indeed help, provided the level of contamination remains manageable. That is what we must do. Are psychologists and behavioral experts also involved in communication and enforcement strategy? Yeah, a lot of times. At the RIVM an entire behavior unit has been set up, which focuses specifically on behavior and how to communicate about it. Behavioral experts are involved in the public communication that is part of our crisis approach. So we involve them at different times. Mr Segers' question about the independence of the RIVM and the OMT. The Prime Minister has already said something about this, and he already predicted that I was not going to say so much about it. That's right. However, I would like to emphasise that we attach great importance to the independence of the Outbreak Management Team. Given how this is occasionally discussed, can the Outbreak Management Team still be sufficiently independent and can RIVM still be sufficiently independent? I think that we should all take this to heart in the way we divide the roles and tasks. But I certainly also think that the cabinet should be more focused on this, and will also be more focused on it. With regard to the various members of the OMT who spoke, what the Director of the Centre for the Control of Infectious Diseases said yesterday is true: the OMT will really have to talk to itself about how to proceed. Moreover, the good role and division of labour and the remaining in the right place naturally apply to this crisis approach at all. This also applies, for example, to professional directives. I would like to say this anyway, because, for example, looking back at how we had debates earlier on the BCO directive................................................................................................................................................................................... I am saying that this is a medical and professional directive. I therefore attach great importance to the political debate, which should cover everything. But I also attach great importance to staying in the right chair and keeping in mind the way in which professionals think their work can best be done. With this, I think I've had the questions in the first block. Then I'll go to the test capacity. I shall begin with Mrs Marijnissen's question, which consists of several parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u264	Yes, but I see Mr Segers and I think he has a question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u265	I have a question on two points: the source and contact research and testing and the role of rapid tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u266	Right on that block, I'm gonna start now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u267	Fine. I'll leave that for a while. Then I have a question about the broad consultation. We discussed this in spring: the OMT is very valuable, but it is medical advice from mainly white coats. Don't you also need other places to cut knots with a wider view, in width, in a good way? The planning agencies came by, a group of the ESC came by. But don't you also need behavioral experts and pedagogues and others? With me, it's hard to see how that's secured. Actually, all we see is the OMT and all we hear is the OMT. Another broader advice remains in the luwte after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u268	I think, frankly, that's not so bad. The OMT simply has the legal duty, under the Public Health Act, to advise us in an infectious disease crisis. Then it's about the question: what then? What do you have to do from the point of view of epidemiology? What is needed in a particular context, with an explanation of the figures? What does it take to do that? That's the OMT's job. The idea that there are only virologists in it is not entirely correct. That is sometimes said; not by you, but it is sometimes said. In fact, all medical disciplines are represented. So it's from epidemiology, focused on what you should be doing. But in how and in how to make the balance as good as possible, many other parties are involved, also advising. One of the things that we have done in connection with the discussion, which you contributed to this spring, is that we have asked the planning agencies to come up with a balancing framework. They did. The shortest summary is: try to hit the virus hard, but society and the economy as little as possible. That is also the balance that has naturally been on the table in recent weeks. We have done very well, I repeat: very well, keep an eye on the figures on the contagion. And we have always considered: must you intervene at this time, knowing that too late intervention is harmful, but also that an intervention that comes too early can also cause a lot of collateral damage. So you always have to weigh well: what is the right time for what package of measures, given the circumstances of that moment? In short: the OMT tells us to do something from the epidemiology, the balancing framework of the SCP and the CPB helps us in the weighting and the question "how do you tell the story about what you're going to decide" is again involving numerous behavioral experts and communication advisors. So let us advise on several sides. I don't understand why one thing still goes wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u269	Yet the OMT is a great eye-catcher. And yet they are withdrawn from the political and social debate in a way that sometimes undermines their authority. Potentially, that's possible. The opinions will be discussed. Why? Because they're so controlling and so leading. They're very weighty indeed. But if there are a number of other advices next to it, it will end up on the side of politics. Here the interests must be weighed, by the Cabinet and by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u270	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u271	The more explicit the other opinions are on the table and the clearer that is, the more we are assigned to our core task, namely the weighing of interests and the cutting of knots, and the less we entrust the OMT with a political and social debate that does them no justice either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u272	I very much share that. That has a number of components. The component you mention: if you have to make a political assessment that does not really require epidemiological or medical consideration, then we have to do our own work. We shouldn't, because we find it complicated, give the decision out of our hands, to the OMT. That requires discipline on the part of politics. I think there's something else that requires discipline on the political side. That's that you need to leave medical scientists, or even scientists, space for moving insight. That is precisely what scientists live on. That's actually the essence of medical science: that you discover new things, that you learn new things, and that given the facts and circumstances of a given moment, you come to a conclusion for that moment, but also that a week later you might come to a different view. This is very difficult to handle in the political context, because we are inclined to justify, for example, the issue of consistency. It was precisely the science that had to be free to have moving insight. That is why it is right to separate the political-administrative domain, of which we are, and the medical-scientific domain, of which they are. Don't sit on each other's seats, it's great. Then test it, Mr. Chairman. I mentioned Mrs Marijnissen, but several Members have asked the question when the test capacity is in order. And then they asked about the role of quick tests. I tasted the impatience in that, which I do recognize. But first, the PCR tests, because with that offer, we have to do it right now. Last week, 40,000 covid tests were taken at GGDs and hospitals together, a day. From next Friday we can take 49,500 covid tests, at GGD's and hospitals together. And as of next Monday, there should be 56,500. So yeah, it's growing, yeah, it's rising. That is a good thing, because we also see that the waiting times have risen considerably and we have to get rid of them, because the testing has to work quickly, at least within the two 24 hours we have talked to the Chamber about before, so within 24 hours after making a test session and again 24 hours until the result. If you look closely at the figures of this moment, we are on average almost double, so it should at least return very quickly to those two times 24 hours. That's the first win we have to make. To this end, everything we discussed last week has been done very extensively with regard to the expansion of laboratory capacity and supplies for the materials currently in the laboratories. In addition, we have concluded contracts with a number of German labs. There is also a Belgian lab with a great opportunity to test a lot more. That's how I hope we're at 70,000 tests by the end of October, where we're at the beginning of October, so early next week, at 56,500 tests. It should be possible, but keep me in good shape, if we scale up at this rate, if we manage to keep this pace and if we do not have any other setbacks along the way, you will hear me make all the comments that could be done anyway to sit over the 100,000 tests in November/December. That is actually the capacity we would not have given until February the scaling-up line we saw before. We're trying to get that done a lot sooner. On the PCR tests, I say. To be honest, what I have put much more hope on in the end is the rapid tests. We're gonna have to do it with the PCR tests for now. That will only always be an actual process, and always have to do with serious lead times. Eventually you want even faster lead times, even faster than those two times 24 hours. What could help us with that? Those are the rapid tests, which are now under development. I'd like to give you an outline of some of the promising things that are going on right now. At the same time, I would like to make a commitment that, in the next progress letter, not next week but next week, I will give a more detailed outline of what is currently going on in the field of rapid tests. If I hadn't had a chamber debate, I'd open a pilot today with the LAMP test. We commissioned TNO and a number of other partners in February. That's a highly simplified PCR test that can be taken much faster, with 45 minutes until you get the results. That's a huge acceleration. Coming weeks will be tested and validated to ensure that it is as reliable and useful as the regular PCR test. That could be a great help. For example, you could provide the rapid test streets that are now being developed at the GGDs. If we are a few weeks away, I hope to be able to say something about its reliability. Then we're going to scale it up and roll it out as soon as possible. We asked TNO to make a plan to do so as soon as possible. That's one. The second is the breath test. It'll be validated in the next few weeks. I have already given orders to buy everything that could be bought, because it is reasonably viable, especially in the area of negative results. This is, of course, very likely to accelerate the testing process in the test street further. If you could pick out all the negatives before they hit the test street and only the positives would then have a PCR test done, it would save a lot of capacity. With that, you can greatly increase the capacity. So that's very likely. There are a number of other quick tests, but I'm gonna leave them for a while. Those were the innovative test methods, which come to a result much faster. In addition, we are currently doing antigen tests. Five are currently in a pilot. Everything for sale, we've already bought or we're buying. In part, it is not for sale yet and then we have bought an option. Those five are also validated in livesettings, in addition to PCR, to see what reliability is compared to PCR. At the same time, parallel scenarios are currently being developed for whom and in which setting they can be of added value, as they cannot replace the PCR test; the reliability is not that high. But you can certainly use them in a number of settings, where the reliability may be a little less important. That's a very logistical process. I hope that at the end of October I have made up my mind about the use of these rapid tests and antigen tests. From the beginning of November, we could use it gradually. The fastest one, if it goes well in validation, is the LAMP test. There's a lot of energy in it to make sure we pull it out of the ground as soon as possible. In short, everything is happening, but for the time being we will have to do it with the PCR tests in the next few weeks. Fortunately, there we see a considerable increase in capacity. I think I've done all the tests in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u273	This section on rapid testing is actually about last week's debate, with among others Mr Klaver, about that test society. A sketch is given that a lot is happening to get there. The Minister says that the LAMP test is the fastest, but I think it means the fastest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u274	The fastest use, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u275	Because waiting 45 minutes is certainly not the fastest time when you're talking about presorting in those test streets. Is the Minister prepared to comment in the letter not only on the state of procurement and the like, but also on a look-through in the coming months? How can this type of test be used towards that test society?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u276	Yeah, I'd really like to do that. Don't get me wrong, that LAMP test could be the fastest to deploy. It is indeed not the fastest, but it is the fastest to use. These antigen tests often give the results very quickly, but they are not all easily usable and scalable. Often you have to have knowledge of things to read the test properly. It's messing with reagents and so on. It is fast, but not always easy to scale up, so we could use it on a very large scale. Again we see a bit more probability in that LAMP test that is being developed at the moment. We take advantage of everything, we use everything that is useful, but each time it is about the question of what is the right setting. Mr Heerma's question to clarify in the letter what the possible application might be from what point, I would like to answer in a week or two in the progress letter. The test block also contained a question from Mr Azarkan about the corona app. How's it going? Well, he's been done for a while and waiting for treatment in the First Chamber. That'll be next week. Soon after the end of this debate, we will make known at what time the national introduction will take place. Mr Azarkan asked how that app would contribute to the fight against the virus. That app is an addition to the source and contact research, as it brings in a faster and better picture of who you've been in contact with. So it's just helping. Then I have really had the questions about testing and I come to Mrs Van Brenk's question about ventilation systems in nursing homes. RIVM has given and strengthened ventilation advice just before the summer, including with regard to international developments, to clarify what is important in ventilation. Just after the summer, in one of the debates, there have been a lot of discussions about how nursing homes should deal with this. That was just after that situation in Maassluis, where the idea was that ventilation might have played a major role in that. RIVM made it clear once again that ventilation is very important, but that was always the point of view, but that ventilation with swivel fans has been blown, because they could extend the drop-by-drop spread, because air currents are simply triggered. This also applies to recirculation in one room. That's what happens when a ventilation system starts pumping around. This strengthened and clarified opinion of the RIVM has prompted ActiZ not only to inform its members, but also to consider how they could better support its members. At the end of August, they asked all real estate managers of the various healthcare institutions affiliated to ActiZ to find out what adjustments they have made, which experts they consult and whether they need a general hand-out on ventilation. They have also offered to propose care locations for further research. Based on the feedback, ActiZ then created a checklist for the members with the steps to be taken and additional information. ActiZ stresses in that checklist that care settings should check their ventilation system and make sure this is in order for the winter. Those healthcare institutions know RIVM's advice well, as well as the advice of TNO's expert panel on ventilation. That also confirms the inspection in her message this week. A sample by telephone from the inspection shows that nursing homes are well familiar with the guidelines for ventilation systems. Many nursing homes have had the ventilation systems checked by an internal or external expert. At the moment that goes well and ActiZ is on top of it. Members and members have been supported in implementing the opinions that are currently being issued. I'm gonna say I'm gonna keep the finger on the wrist. I continue to say in the direction of ActiZ: if more help and support are needed, let me know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u277	Were you almost done?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u278	I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u279	Yeah, really. Mrs. Van Brenn, Mrs. Van Esch and Mr. Wilders. Short questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u280	A very brief question: at least I know of a number of nursing homes where that did not happen. They say nothing happened here. The question is: can the Minister push a little so that all nursing homes are looked at for ventilation? I do hear other sounds, of the week even on the radio.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u281	Maybe you should come outside the broadcast with names and numbers. I had the conversation with the industry association and made the appointment to be on top of this. The industry organisation has done so very actively towards its members. They are really on top of those ventilation systems, work intensively with external experts and look closely at the checklist that ActiZ has developed. I've asked the inspection to check her image of the ventilation. The complete picture of ventilation is that one does the good things and that one does things right. That's my general view of the ventilation. If you have examples where that is not the case, I'd like to hear them outside the broadcast.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u282	Mrs Van Esch and then Mr Wilders and Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u283	I have not had any answers to the questions about the slaughterhouses. I assumed you'd answer it, and I didn't assume we'd skip those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u284	No, you scared the shit out of me. Perhaps it was also a bit because you had asked the question before and I think I have answered it before. I'm afraid the answer won't be as different as it was the first time. Should the measures for slaughterhouses be tightened up? The answer to that question is that, where a slaughterhouse is an outbreak cluster, no rules apply to slaughterhouses other than to all other organisations where that is the case. Then the G.D.D.'s gonna get to work. If the chairman of the security region believes that the tent should be closed, the tent will be closed. That has also happened a few times. But in general you cannot say: because the coronavirus is in the Netherlands, no slaughterhouse can open anymore. You can't say that, and you don't have to say that if these employers are just employers, they're just employers, but they're just making sure that their employees can comply with the rules. Mrs Van Esch sometimes had reservations about this, and I think that is justified. Mrs Ouwehand also had those reservations and I think they are justified. But where a chairman of the security region considers it necessary, he acts. My impression is that that works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u285	Those weren't exactly my questions this time anyway. You can see this is a repeat of moves, but I didn't ask. I said I'd like to know if you're getting any signals on how it's going with slaughterhouses. There are three motions for resolutions that have been adopted. One motion calls for national direction on the approach to slaughterhouses. There is also a motion requiring that fireplaces be prevented. The way in which testing is carried out in slaughterhouses would be considered. First it was said that preventive testing was carried out, then there were only samples. I feel like we have no idea what's going on now. If you do, I'd like to hear it. A second question, which I have indeed asked, but which I have still not received an answer to, was about the speed of slaughter which is being raised again. This means that employees need to work closer together and not be able to keep a distance of 1.5 metres. I think that's the basic rule. It is now stated that they will not be respected in slaughterhouses if you increase the speed of slaughter. I want an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u286	You ask a number of questions, so I also have some answers. Mrs Ouwehand also asked written questions yesterday about the production being re-created. We will look into this in more detail in the answer to those written questions. On the subject of the national direction, I explained earlier that together with the GGDs, the security regions and the Hague departments, we have set up the 'fire chamber'. I'm sorry for that word. We did this because a number of supervisory bodies occasionally have a task to perform alongside each other, for example with an employer as a slaughterhouse. But that doesn't only apply to a slaughterhouse. This may also be the case with another employer. These are employers in particular who work a lot with flex work, particularly in Eastern Europe. You will need a number of supervisors at the same time to do what is needed there. That needs to be coordinated, and we will do so when necessary. For the rest, the slaughterhouses must, of course, comply with all the rules. If there is a large cluster or a fireplace there is, of course, intervention. That's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u287	Finally, Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u288	I would like to make two more worrying points. You say all the time: if there is a fireplace, there will be intervention. But then we're too late. Because that fireplace is already here. The idea is to avoid a fireplace in the slaughterhouses. The motions adopted were also designed to prevent another fire from happening. Here too, it seems as if we are chasing the facts. We absolutely want to avoid that. Another motion that has been adopted and which is not being carried out means that the rate of slaughter should not be raised again, but should be reduced. You say now: you have asked questions about this and I am going to answer them. Great, but that can't be the only answer. There's just an approved motion. It states that the rate of slaughter must be reduced in order to maintain the corona measures. Now you have to say: okay, we're going to make that motion and so the slaughter rate can't go up again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u289	I hope you will agree that we should return to that point in writing. That really is Mr Schouten's portfolio. With regard to the fireplaces: where you see that things are going wrong, you can actually and rightly say that it has gone wrong, that you have to close up, or that you have to put some things in order, etc. In addition, there are always inspections by the NVWA, the Labour Inspectorate and the ISZW, to prevent things from going wrong. So there are a number of inspections to make sure that you check your rules when it hasn't gone wrong, just to prevent things from going wrong. The GGD's deployment is really focused on fireplaces. I also think that's the work of the G.D.D. Otherwise, the G.D.D.'s gonna make up his time on what inspection work should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u290	Good. Mrs Van Esch, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u291	Yeah, finally. Keep referring to the fact that this is covered by another ministry and that it can be returned in writing, but I continue to think that this is a weakness. I am now making an urgent request, so I would like a response to this in the second term. I really think we should be able to talk about this today, even if it were to come under the Ministry of LNV. We see in other countries that fires continue to occur in slaughterhouses. This is the urgent call to prevent these fires from re-emerging in the Netherlands. The Party for Animals really thinks that we now have too little insight into it and keep it. I think that's a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u292	You have made your point, Mrs Van Esch. Then I'll go to Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u293	Before I come to my question, I would first like to get an answer to the hospitality question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u294	That action's on. I would like to see what type of hospitality that takes place in. I have indicated to you that this is not classified in the registration. So that requires a manual action. That means calling. That's happening right now. I hope to inform you of this in the next progress letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u295	Thank you. Then there's my actual question. We make costs for entrepreneurial Netherlands. Again, we do this not only to help companies, but also to maintain employment. We have the NOW arrangements, the Tozo and the TVL. These are all very important and good arrangements. It is quite right that we should charge them with public debt. I took a look at the budget you submitted to Princess's Day a few weeks ago. For this year, the additional costs you spend on corona as Minister of Health are estimated at 4.8 billion and for next year at 1.89 billion. Together, this amounts to roughly EUR 6 to 7 billion. What I do not understand is that these costs are borne by the budget. Why didn't you hit the cabinet with your fist on the table? "Friends, this is a crisis, we are dealing with the corona, it is right that we should help companies and the jobs with NOW regulations and do so at the expense of public debt." I do not think that we should bear these costs in the budget. They are all one-off costs: test capacity, health bonus, support staff GGD. These are almost all incidental costs. Why didn't they go to the state's debt? That would be much more honest, wouldn't it? It is now up to the budget to be reduced and we must start cutting back at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u296	These are one-off additional costs to be borne by the budget. There is no need to cut back in order to bear these burdens; it is added to the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u297	Why don't they go to the state's debt, just like the pot with the companies, the NOW scheme? There's probably a lot more to it. We hope not, of course, but if things go wrong, there will be a lot more costs. I don't understand the reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u298	But it's also charged with the state debt. It is a budget that accumulates once and for all. The same budget does not cover it, so it is an accumulation of the budget. There is no cover for other budgets either, and so you broaden the financial framework. So it will be charged to the public debt, that is inevitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u299	So you assure us that in future there will be no need to cut the budget of the healthcare sector. For next year it's going to be 2 billion, this year it's going to be 4, and I can imagine that 2 will go to 4 or 5 and maybe even more. In the future, therefore, money comes from public debt and not from the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u300	Yes, because we have consciously said that the one-off costs for dealing with the corona crisis should not be borne by the VWS budget. You're gonna have to increase the VWS budget for that. In fact, where all the labour-conditional items are normally translated into the premium, the bonus is one-off at the top of the budget. That's the fastest way, and we want it. I think that is an appropriate translation. To reassure Mr Wilders: in the past, I have had strong discussions with Mr Hoekstra about additional resources and expenditure on health care. Of course, this should be the case between the VWS Minister and the Finance Minister. But since the outbreak of the corona crisis, I've never had a complicated conversation about the additional costs we have to face. Each edition is a well-spent edition when it comes to vaccination, testing, and there, in the end, sourness is always expensive. That is where every issue is ultimately accounted for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u301	There seem to have even been several talks with the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u302	I have also read this in a single column, but unfortunately I cannot give any further information about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u303	You shouldn't believe everything you read, should you? Let's talk about quick tests. The Minister says we need validation, and it's gonna take a while. Why do we not use validation from other countries that have the same standards as us?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u304	It's a little different. We will check whether there is more speed in the validation. At this point, it's going really fast. But in practice, you need to be able to compare the rapid tests with the PCR. PCR is kind of standard in nature, and you should be able to compare it with the PCR results. The lab test that starts today in Amsterdam is conducted in parallel with the PCR. In order to be able to compare all the results with the results, you need to have enough results to compare these two values with each other in order to draw a conclusion on reliability and specificity. After that, you can only say something about what setting it could be useful in. That really has to happen. That has nothing to do with the RIVM, but it has to do with a real life setting. Until recently, it's always been lab settings. You really need to be able to test it on the same type of patients with the same type of infection, with the same type of complaint after infection et cetera to determine what the PCR test does and what this test does compared to the PCR.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u305	I think that's a very sensible comparison. But if it's already been made elsewhere, why can't we use it? For example, the rapid test is also applied in the United States with a very good score. At least I'm reading that, but nowadays, pretty much everyone's a virologist. But that score is there, and if we involve it, it helps and saves a lot of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u306	Agreed. I'm just gonna say something about what you read. What if the sender has the manufacturer of the company, you must always want to appreciate a little when reading. You should not assume linea recta that what is in the leaflet is also what is true. That's one. Two is: international cooperation is indeed there. For example, Marc Bonten's research group at UMC Utrecht is testing one of those rapid tests in practice there. Of course, we also look internationally at what has already been investigated and check whether what we do in the Netherlands is really a supplement. The international peer review must therefore take place anyway. Of course it is. You're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u307	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u308	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u309	We wait for a moment until the chair is cleaned. I now give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u310	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to discuss a number of issues with the Chamber: personal protective equipment, regular care and ic capacity, and staff in care and reward and appreciation for them. Let me start with the personal protective equipment. A number of questions have also been asked to the Prime Minister. Last week I was unable to attend the debate myself, but of course I followed it. So all the necessary changes have been made. The questions from the Chamber were about the OMT opinion on the preventive use of nose masks and the role of VWS in this. I noticed that the term 'blockade' was used several times by political groups. That's why I think it's good to consider how that playing field works and what the role of VWS is and what the professionals' role is. The professionals have a very strong voice in how they ultimately translate the OMT guidelines and in how the advice that came from the OMT is translated into practice. Last week's debate also discussed the fact that VWS as a policy department has no influence on the state of science. It is ultimately up to the profession and the sector to see how they deal with that state of science. For example, the OMT opinion pointed to the preventive use of foot-nose masks in nursing homes. Then, as usual, the field, in this case the occupational group of specialists in the care of the elderly, Verenso, started to draw up guidelines for further details. They did. They made a treatment recommendation on 8 September last. They also explained this yesterday in response to the latest OMT opinion. I have now learned that they will also include this explanation in the next version of their treatment advice. This opinion is based on the following: the Prime Minister already outlined it. In regions where the situation is serious according to the classification, the adage "yes, use, unless' applies. That "unless" is a professional, independent consideration. One example is that you have to deal with a client who, for example, would be alarmed by a caregiver because of dementia, and that the treatment provider estimates that it is not necessary. But that is where the principle of "yes, unless" applies. In regions where the situation is worrying, as stated by Verenso, serious consideration should be given to the possibility of using personal protective equipment as a preventive measure. That "serious consideration" is also what V&VN advises for the use of mouth masks in a worrying area. In any region where "vigilant" still applies, the professional understanding of people can be exploited. So even if it is not explicitly discussed because of the fact that the situation is serious or worrying, then any professional can make that assessment. The situation "yes, unless" for the serious regions was new and is therefore explicitly included in the letter. Now that I have just heard the discussion, I think we should have included the whole story in the letter, because now it seems as if only one case has been highlighted. I take that to heart for another letter. But that is the legitimacy of the fact that only that situation is included in it. By the way, the sector now estimates that about 50% of houses currently have preventive use of personal protective equipment. I think we will see that this number will rise in the near future. Mr. Chairman. Then about the role of VWS. Above all, I think it is very important to stress here that the availability of personal protective equipment is a very important priority. I have discussed with the Chamber several times what we have at the LCH in the main sheds: is that enough? The LCH indicates that we have stock for about ten weeks, looking at the peak consumption in March. Is that sufficient on the basis of the changing insights that have been taken into account in the directives? In any case, at the request of the Chamber, I indicated that we would like to examine this very carefully. We asked Accenture to do that. I expect the results by the end of the week. I also think it is really important to discuss this with those involved. I'd like to discuss it with the profession, the domes and the healthcare providers. I just want to know that all the questions they have about that stock have also been answered. That is why I would like to inform the Chamber next week of the commitment made earlier and referred to yesterday in Mr Jetten's and Mrs Marijnissen's motion. Mr. Chairman. Let me give you an example. If you look through the hairs of the eye again, next week we will go on to the website of the LCH, you will see on the basis of the items on it, on the basis of the available stock, which is still in order. Let me give you an example. As far as surgical masks are concerned, based on the current weekly demand, we have 369 weeks of supplies. That's a hell of a number. But again, I want that checked on the basis of what we are going to put in the directives on more preventive use. For example, there are about nineteen weeks of supplies for gloves. This is related to the fact that gloves are problematic in terms of delivery worldwide. That means that we have asked for extra effort on this. However, we have also called on Mrs Van den Berg to look into whether we can do it in the Netherlands and whether we can see with the profession and the professionals in what situation which type of gloves could be used. Mr. Chairman. I hope that I am referring to the medical science, the profession, which gives the professional interpretation, and the role of VWS, in particular as regards the availability of what is considered medically and professionally desirable, to show what this playing field looks like. That is what personal protective equipment is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u311	I have Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Klaver, Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u312	As far as I am concerned, we are once again seeing the great shift of responsibilities by the cabinet. The question has been asked so many times not only by us, but also by healthcare professionals: are there sufficient personal protective equipment for our caregivers to wear preventively? Once again, a whole smokescreen is being erected. It is said that all this and all this is in stock in the big warehouse, but we are also still calculating. On Saturday, the minister said that in the paper. Yesterday Minister De Jonge said it in the letter: we won't know until next week. But at the same time, when we were talking about scarcity, we were shouting extremely loudly from Box K: no, no, no, the scarcity is not an argument. But it can't be both true, can it? If the scarcity is no longer an argument, what is the problem of saying: yes, there are sufficient personal protective materials and all caregivers in the nursing homes can count on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u313	The short answer to that is yes, but I am going to clarify it. If we say in this Chamber that it is important that the professionals are in the lead with regard to the application of their knowledge, I myself have had a number of debates on this. I think it is important that we do not say from VWS how to use personal protective equipment. What I do find my job is to do if this changes, and it has changed recently, because we have fallen into a number of regions of colour, so more preventive use is needed to do an extra check on the stocks, so as to see if we still have enough in the long term, even if we go through that second wave. Now we have such supplies that some personal protective equipment will allow us to advance tens of weeks. I want to be able to keep saying that to people in care, because every conversation I have with people in care, like Mrs Marijnissen, is about personal protective equipment. So the answer is yes. The reason I'm doing that stock survey is because I want to be able to guarantee people that they work safely. If it were to come out of the investigation that there might be a shortage for some personal protective equipment next February or March, if we go to a peak tax in the longer term, on the basis of the current directives, then I think it is a task of VWS to ensure that that stock is replenished. That's how clip-and-ready I want it to be here. I'll tell the room about that next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u314	I think it's kind of cheeky. Last week we had a whole debate here, which was about the profession that the minister is now hiding behind if she says she doesn't want to do anything outside the profession and the caregivers. It was only outside the care providers, which we had such a long and strong debate about just last week. Healthcare providers have been asking for the RIVM Directive, which is far too conservative, to be amended for six months, which has led to unnecessary risks for healthcare professionals. The RIVM came back to that; Van Dissel said in the briefing that it was wrong. The RIVM Directive has been amended. But I really do not think it is a good idea for the cabinet to hide behind: yes, we do want to leave the profession to the floor and we do want to settle it well with the profession. I would have said: if we had listened better to the profession six months ago, we would have avoided a whole lot of misery. Mr. Chairman. Then the availability. Of course, it is important that there are sufficient materials in the future. But the next question remains. If the argument of scarcity doesn't matter now, at the moment, what exactly is the problem of telling the caregivers who are now holding their hearts because they are already full in that second wave and all know how it went wrong in the first wave in the nursing homes: yes, of course, if you want protective materials, can you just get them, also preventative? Because not only do we get the messages, Mrs van Ark will undoubtedly reach all those messages from healthcare professionals who now say: I want to, but I just don't like it; I don't like it from the employer because it doesn't comply with the directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u315	I've been asked several questions. Let me say it the way I feel it. I started on July 9th. One of the first questions from the Lower House that was on my desk was a question from the SP about personal protective equipment. These questions had been discussed in the debate the week before, questions about scarcity and the applicability for professionals. Those questions touched me. I was involved in safe working from Social Affairs and Employment before that. I've had too many conversations with people who've gotten into their health because of their work. So those questions touched me. I thought it was rightful questions, too. What's the deal, exactly? That's what I've been digging into myself. So I'm not trying to hide behind a smokescreen here. I am trying to bridge the gap, because I think that the questions that the Chamber had last week, the questions that you had, the questions that the Chamber had from left to right wide about the protection of employees, the questions that people themselves had, are just legitimate questions. I think they deserve a clasp-and-ready answer, too. I would like to say, in my view, that this was also changed last week, so I hope that I am not saying anything new, that it is very relevant what the profession thinks. There were not the type of directive as it was in hospitals in long-term care and in outpatient care. The profession therefore asked RIVM at the time to do something about the directives. That's what we've got now. We discussed history last week, and we learned from it. But what's on the table now is that the professional group, as usual with guidelines, gives a manual to the professionals who apply them. I think that's right. I think it is right for people to say: this is my job, this is my professionalism, this is how we should do it. For example, they work with V&VN when it comes to how you deal with visitors. That's where you meet on the work floor. So I really want to make it very clear here that I want to make that bridge, because we need to show people together that their safety is very valuable to us. And if there's no problem, can't we tell people now? From the outset, both trade unions and the profession have been fighting for their own professional consideration of people, so you can say at some point that it is not necessary in that directive, but I think it is necessary. Then there is always the inspection that acts as a lock on the door when people say they feel unsafe at work. We've seen reports of that, too. But scarcity is, looking at the weekly supplies that we have, not the problem and scarcity isn't a normative statement, it shouldn't be the problem either. So the check on the stock we're doing is to avoid any longer-term scarcity. Because people need to know that they are safe, for themselves and, as Mrs Marijnissen rightly says, also for their clients.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u316	Then I'll go to Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u317	I think it is good to see the Minister so firmly about this and that she also wants to be clear about those stocks. That's important. 'Cause if there's no supply, there's no supply, and you better be clear about that. It's the Ministry's job to make sure there is. My concern is at another point. We are now saying: in those regions you have to use it anyway and in the other regions it is possible. Actually, I'd like to turn it around. I would like to say that we can use it preventively everywhere, in all regions, so yes, you use it unless a health care provider himself says: I do not, because there are good reasons for that; for example, you should not want to do so with certain target groups. Why is that so important to me? Because by doing so, we are actually giving those caregivers themselves much more of the direction that I hear the Minister talking about. Now they have to fight a management that might make a different assessment, and I really think it's up to those individual caregivers. Is the Minister willing to turn that around?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u318	VWS doesn't make the guidelines. I think everyone from the sector and the profession is looking at this now. Verenso, the association of medical specialists in this field, can change this tomorrow. What they are saying at the moment as regards a serious region is 'yes, unless'. I can see, especially in the words that are used in the care, that when one says 'consider it seriously' in such a region, it is actually a 'yes, unless'. So if you have to seriously consider something, you really have to have arguments not to do it. I would like to make sure that they will see it transmitted as well, but I would be careful to say, as a VWS or as a ministry, that we are going to work on this directive. Because I really think it is important that the sector and the profession themselves make that assessment, in terms of control, in terms of the state of science and in terms of how they deal with it themselves, but I think they are also having this discussion. By the way, they also say that more than half of the situations are currently being used.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u319	You can always see that the glass is half full, but that means it doesn't happen in the other half. I find that rather worrying at the moment. The interesting thing is that, among all the caregivers I am talking to, those are also people from the organisations you have just mentioned. I do not actually see anyone who is very satisfied with the situation now, with how personal protective equipment is doing. And I really think it's a responsibility of VWS to be very honest. This is not only about how the profession does its job, but also about controlling the virus. Therefore, the OMT also included it as one of the measures that could contribute to further containment of the virus. That is why I think it is indeed a responsibility of VWS to say in line with the scheme: everywhere you have to use it, unless. I would actually like that commitment from the Minister today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u320	I'm also trying to be a little roll-resistant. In the beginning of the covid crisis we as VWS actually took the role of real estate agent on us to put groups around the table that might not always be able to find each other. We have a lot of contact in the different sectors with all the representatives. I have spoken to the profession myself a number of times, with the trade unions, about this, and I will continue to do so. I can imagine that we'd facilitate a conversation, but I just don't think it's intrinsically okay to start nibbling on guidelines from the Ministry. Because we want the sector to say: that is how we feel it should be. I think that we should certainly be able to facilitate a conversation when there are signals coming from the Chamber that things are not going well in places, but I do want to stay in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u321	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u322	Finally. I appreciate the Minister's tone, but we are in a huge crisis. I don't think it's enough to facilitate a conversation. This has been going on for seven months. The problems were huge in the nursing homes. By the way, we also talked about home care just now. Those problems have become a little less but still very big. If then this minister's solution is to facilitate a conversation, I would have thought that was a wonderful idea four months ago, but now far too little. What we're asking isn't that big. What we are asking is: just say, state that this is available everywhere. I think that this is what increases the freedom of the care workers, that we change the default. I would really like a commitment on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u323	Especially with what we now know about the stocks: it is available. In every possible way it has been said: if it were already so that someone says you shouldn't do it, you always have your professional consideration. I want to say everywhere that it's available, but as a ministry saying "you'll use it," I think it's part of the individual consideration that people sometimes want to make from their professionalism.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u324	This really is a repeat of the question and the answer. At some point we need to make some progress, because this is... Finally, on this point and very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u325	Finally, really. This is where we talk past each other. That's why I'm going to come back to this. I am talking about strengthening the position of that individual professional. Now those nurses or caregivers have to fight a management or board that makes other choices. By turning it around and saying that everyone is entitled to it, you really leave the choice with the individual professional. Now it lies too much with the domes, the boards or the management. I want to change that, just to strengthen the professional's position.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u326	In substance, I think we are very much in agreement. I have just said that I am testing a 'yes, unless', but I also think it is my administrative responsibility to leave such a directive where it should be, and that is the sector in this case. By the way, I am still guilty of the Chamber o, I already see Mrs Van Brenk's answer to Mrs Van Brenk's question on home care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u327	Then I'd do it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u328	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u329	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u330	Mrs. Van Brenk asked about the community care, the people in home care. That's a fair question. At the beginning of next week, I expect the OMT opinion on this specific issue for this group, but of course it also applies to them whether you can do or postpone the care at another time. But if that is not possible, they too will have to be able to use personal protective equipment. As from 1 May, they will also have the room as healthcare professionals to depart from this and use personal protective equipment, if there were any other directive or starting point. This is also on the website of the RIVM, on the website of the government, in the hands of V&VN and in the hands of the unions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u331	Good. I shall go first to Mr Van der Staaij, who was there earlier. Mrs Van Brenk will soon have the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u332	The Minister also refers to the Verenso guidelines and says: I do not want to go into them; I hear from the Chamber the desire to broaden it, and I understand that. Yet, Verenso's response to their website yesterday says correctly: the Minister states in the letter of the Chamber that, when an area is serious, mouth masks should be used, but as a Verenso we would like to advise the use of preventive mouth masks earlier on in an increased prevalence. Then it seems that the interpretation of Verenso is: the Minister actually sets stricter conditions than the conditions we would like to impose ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u333	I have to admit that I had the same question as Mr Van der Staaij, so we have made contact with Verenso from the Ministry. They used this as communication to their own members. They also intend to adapt the treatment directive accordingly. They can do that, of course. So it's mostly communication to their members. At least that's how I understood it, because I had it checked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u334	If they say the same thing, then I do not see any light between what Verenso says and what the clear OMT advice is, namely: as a national measure, simply make preventively available everywhere. Well, then that could be the norm, couldn't it? Well, then there's no need to have all kinds of discussions about that, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u335	No, and that is also a valid point. Only, I felt like I was being asked to order that from VWS. I am simply reluctant to do so, however much I agree with the content of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u336	I still need to understand it very well. If the OMT comes up with the advice to introduce a national mouth cap, so with the advice to wear those surgical mouth masks, the Minister says: I leave that to the sectors. Let me get this straight. So no matter what the OMT says, they can decide for themselves. So the OMT is not so leading that we follow that advice one-on-one?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u337	The OMT relates it to a situation of increasing environmental prevalence. Then they say: prevent the introduction of COOVID-19 into nursing homes by using personal protective equipment preventively. This has been developed by Verenso in a treatment advice focused on the regions. But the serious regions are, in fact, affected by it: use it. Verenso has made an impact on the basis of what the OMT has said. The OMT opinion of 28 September states: we tighten up the advice, use a mouth and nose mask preventively. This means that Verenso has explained her treatment advice and says: do it preventively, even if an area is considered worrying. So I think that's just one-on-one and radiates it from all sides: use it in very small print, unless you make an individual, professional assessment, considering the knowledge you have of your client, not to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u338	Good. Finally, Mrs Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u339	Finally, I would urge the Minister to at least ask the OMT to allow all the professionals, all those in care who are in contact with clients within 1.5 metres, to make use of it. In addition to community care, disability care, youth care and so on were also mentioned. There are a lot of professions where you get very close to people, but they are not mentioned. I share Mr Klaver's view that sometimes it is a discussion with your supervisor or with a board in the vein of: can I use it? This, while the reverse would be a lot easier for those professions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u340	Good. I think that point has been exchanged enough. I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u341	The answer to that is yes. We've asked for broad advice, and I expect it Monday or Tuesday. Then, of course, we will show it to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. In this context, Mr Segers asked when the information on the World Health Organization's opinion would be sent to the Chamber. Following the previous debate, we asked the RIVM how they involved the changes to the WHO directives in the LCI directive. We would like to discuss this in the next progress report on COVID-19 to the House of Representatives. My expectation is that it will succeed. Then I discussed with you the questions relating to personal protective equipment. There are also some questions about regular care and ic-capacity. In the contribution of the Members of Parliament, I noted that this was of great importance. I'll share that. Unlike in March, when we really had to stop everything, I think that a very important objective of tackling the covid crisis at the moment is that we can allow regular care to continue as much as possible without harm or irreparable suffering. Unfortunately, that has happened in the past period. We have experienced very poignant situations. In this context, Mr Krol asks: can you not work better on a concentration of people with corona, so that you can allow care to continue in other places? What we did with the ic's upholstery plan is that we also asked the field: how do you think you can do it best? At first the idea was to center it, but in the first phase the choice was made to spread patients over the hospitals and, if necessary, to achieve such a concentration in a subsequent phase, if there is this scaling up of the flexible beds. I attach great importance to what the field itself indicates and to what it says it can handle. That is why we chose at this stage to facilitate them to spread it across all hospitals. Mr Van Haga made a comparison with 2015 and the number of ic-beds at the time. The number he mentions can indeed be found on the RIVM website. I think it is important to say that the number is correct, but the number he mentioned was not only about ic-beds but also about beds in a number of related departments, such as the medium care, the first heart aid and a number of departments with abbreviations, of which I can only say the whole words because of their medical nature but better not because they are too long. If you turn that off against the current situation, I'm really looking at the operational beds in the intensive care facility, it's about 1,200 comparable beds every year in the period 2013 to 2018. Mr Wilders, as well as Mr Segers and others, said that they were getting very worrying signals about the ic staff, the people working on the ic. They asked, "Can they handle that second wave?" I recognize that from the conversations I have with people. They say they're still recovering. I talked to a hospital director who said we sent everyone on vacation in September because we were hoping it would come later. This is a very important fact for us. We now also see that, for example, the absence of people can also ensure that care is spread out. It's definitely a matter of concern. On the one hand, we are supporting the measures that we have that are comprehensive; perhaps, given the time, I can better include them in the next progress letter.... as many nurses and people working in the care sector as possible. On the other hand, that is the legitimacy to say that we must all stick to the measures outlined in the first term by the US Secretary of State and the Prime Minister. For me, the fact that I have heard stories about how they experienced the first period and how they look up against that second period is, at least, a very important legitimacy for taking the measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u342	Have you answered all the questions about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u343	I have another question from Mr Jetten. He said, "What if it doesn't work?" That is, of course, a scenario that we do not want to think about. But we have discussed with the regions acute concern about how we can scale further, actually beyond what we all want. Also in the first wave we have run scenarios with each other about how that can be done. We also have agreements with the countries around us. We do things. You can see that the distribution of patients as it is taking place is actually already part of letting regular care continue as much as possible. So we are preparing to at least have a plan B and maybe even a plan C. But everything is first focused on plan A: repressing the curve.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u344	I would ask the Minister to respond to the suggestions I made in my first term. The big problem of the employees in the care, in the hospitals and on the ICUs is that they have too few colleagues, that they have to do too much. I've made a few suggestions. One, something I know you don't want to do: pay them better, give them an incentive to stay. Two. A lot of people in care work part-time. Maybe they could work a little bit more. But then they must also be able to improve financially. That is often not possible, because they lose a lot of money by combining their partner's income, with a care allowance or with a rent allowance. In a time of crisis, when we need them badly, we should not be able to do that. So put that aside. Make sure they get the money. Thirdly, I have suggested that the overhead, the management, the people who have gone into management from the workplace, should return in the short term while retaining their salary. Let them come back to the workplace instead of letting them sit in that management function. If you do these three things, you can get tens of thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands, of extra hands on the bed. I would ask you to deal with these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u345	I certainly understand the points made by Mr Wilders. When it comes to payment, we find each other in the interest of valuation, certainly the financial valuation, but Mr Wilders goes a step further, recently with the motions he has tabled. The cabinet does take a number of steps. This year, too, we were able to make the OVA space available again, fortunately, despite the poor figures of the economy. From what we can do, at least we have been able to achieve a reward in the form of a bonus. But we have also said that a number of bottlenecks in non-financial valuation deserve to be looked at more closely. That is why we have asked the ESC to look into this with employers and employees, but also with the profession. Some of the things in that appreciation are also about things that are very close, for example the availability of childcare or more flexible rostering and, as Mr Wilders also points out, making it easy for people to work more. The Chamber has adopted a motion of 150 to 0 to get rid of the surcharges. It just hasn't happened tomorrow. That means I can't do anything about a number of problems right now. But we can see what we can do. We are talking about what we can practically do tomorrow, and in committee about what we can do in the longer term. Then management: a lot of people we are as experts also work in the workplace of the hospital. They're both doing it. I think you need a good management, especially a management that understands people and that she can also help fill in the framework conditions that allow them to do their job properly. So I think it's always a match.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u346	Thank you for the answers. I'm gonna go in one at a time. Unfortunately, we do not agree on the salary, because I think they deserve it and need it, but they do not get it from you, at least structurally, and they still haven't received the bonus. Then the second point, of the surcharges. Madam Secretary, we are in a crisis right now. We can't wait for a commission to arrive. My question is whether, in view of the crisis situation, you want to look at the rules for people who want to work more full-time from a part-time situation, for re-enterers, for retired people who are returning to work or for side-enterers from another sector. But most of all, I'm concerned with the people with part-time jobs. The pain they get when they earn a euro more and get less care allowance or rent allowance should be lost. See if you can put that aside temporarily. We have a problem now, not in six months when a committee has given birth. Finally, on management. There's a lot of people in there. The overhead is bigger in nursing care than in hospitals, but also in hospitals a lot of people still work in a management function that comes from the workplace. You should ask them to at least temporarily return to the workplace. Maintaining pay, because the last thing we need right now is bureaucracy. You'd get extra hands on the bed. If you cannot answer that now, do so in a letter for next week, but I would be pleased if I could get a serious and comprehensive answer on those points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u347	I always want that last one. I only know that sometimes there are very practical objections between what we want and what is practically possible. I can't just move the supplement system aside for a second. However, I can try to get some kind of understanding in the spirit of what Mr Wilders is trying to do: what can be done? For example, nurses point out that practical roasting is very important for them, or that there is flexible childcare close by, or that they can work more at all. I would prefer to solve the problem of supplementing, but the cabinet has already looked very widely at whether you can eliminate the problem of supplementing. Until now, that wasn't possible. Then there's the suggestion about management. I've heard quite a few people talk about working as a kind of cooperative foreman or forewoman at this time of crisis. I would like to dive into that, because at the moment I know just too little about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u348	So you'll come back to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u349	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u350	My first question was whether we are ready for a second wave that really went crazy, was not only about the regular care, but also about the playbook triage. Maybe the minister's gonna come up with that. Otherwise, I have a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u351	That's a fair point. I know that the Chamber has asked me to send a response this week about triage when you get to the ICU. Mrs Agema did that at the procedural meeting. The Chamber has agreed to that. I'll send that letter, too. It is a heavy subject; I have mentioned it before. I understand the need of the Chamber to look at this quickly. At the same time, there is also a consultation. Just give me a minute to shape that letter. He's coming this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u352	It is a good thing Mrs Agema has already asked this and it is a good thing the Minister sends that letter quickly. It is indeed a very heavy subject. I don't want us to have to discuss triage until we're back in a black scenario. We have to do that at a time when that can still be relatively quiet and therefore careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u353	Sure. I'm just more motivated to avoid that scenario, but I'm in a good, broad company, I guess. Mr. Chairman. I have a number of other questions, some of which I have already answered in interruptions. Given the time, I'm gonna go through it real quick. Mr Wilders asked about the state officials who received a homework allowance in accordance with the collective agreement concluded. This is not so much a bonus as the outcome of a collective bargaining process, a regular negotiation process between employers and employees in the Empire sector. An agreement has been made on a one-off reimbursement of the costs incurred by homeworkers. It's really not a bonus, it's a fee. The Nibud made calculations for that. I think it is right to say here that there are also a lot of officials who have worked very hard in recent months. If I can express my appreciation for this, I would like to convey it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u354	I don't see why you should get an extra $363 if you're working at home. I think you've only got less costs. For example, you don't have to transport yourself, but leave that for what it is. My point was this. Suppose you're a nurse and you've been working in those hospitals or nursing homes with all the risks it's had in the past few months. And then you've been promised twice a bonus from the cabinet, one this year, another next year, but you've both not had it yet. And you're thinking, "Oh, for God's sake, where the hell is that? One time the minister says he's trying to pay out the money before Christmas, the next time you hear it doesn't work out." Then there's that flight to the front of: next year another half bonus. But he's not coming. And then the people in the newspaper read that not those who go to work every day, who take a risk every day, who help patients every day with danger for their own lives.............................................................................................................................................................................. The minister says that's a collective agreement. But this agreement about the bonus was made here in the Lower House. There is no higher body of state law than the House of Representatives. Those people see that they haven't gotten it yet, while the officials will get the money. It just can't be. People don't understand that. And I understand the people who don't get it. Make sure they get that bonus before those civil servants get that coffee money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u355	In any case, the point of contact will open on 1 October for the application of the healthcare bonus. We hope that employers will do so quickly, so that we can pay as many people as possible as quickly as possible and show our appreciation in euros as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u356	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the government's first term. I'll take a look at the room. We have a second time limit of 1 minute 40 seconds. Maybe it's good to finish it first and then suspend it for dinner break. Then the MP and ministers can comment on any motions and answer questions from the second term. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u357	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have three motions, so I'll move on. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that caregivers have barely recovered from the heavy work during the first wave and we are now in a second wave;]] [[calls on the government to arrange as soon as possible a better structural appreciation for caregivers who are at risk of fighting the corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the OMT recommends that preventive use of foot-nose masks in nursing care should be undertaken at national level;]] [[Whereas, according to the OMT, this measure is part of the reduction of the reproductive factor to a level of 0,9;]] [[calls on the Government to implement this measure from the OMT opinion and to allow all nursing homes in our country to use mouth and nose masks preventively,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in order to combat the covid pandemic, a nationally uniform and clear strategy and decisive action to contain the virus is indispensable;]] [[Whereas the Chamber in the Jetten motion (25295, No. 555) called for a clear roadmap which provides insight into measures per alert phase;]] [[calls on the Government to convert the requested roadmap into a useful scheme that will make clear to all the Dutch what measures are being taken at what stage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-589]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-590]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver, Mr Jetten and Mr Segers.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-591]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u358	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the new corona measures have seriously affected people in the hospitality, arts and culture, tourism, events, sport and other sectors;]] [[calls on the Government to develop new and targeted support measures for affected sectors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that it is of the utmost importance that children and young people should be able to go to school;]] [[Whereas there are increasing concerns about the infectiousness of children and their role in the spread of COVID-19 and there are no help and no guidelines for schools, thereby compromising the safety of teachers;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up, before the start of the autumn holidays, a plan of action for safe schools, which in any case consists of updated guidelines on the prevention of infections, the use of mouth caps and how to deal with possible infections and aid for proper ventilation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-592]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-593]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u359	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has come up with a package of measures which we consider to be too late and which are not sure is sufficient. On the other hand, I very much hope that it will be enough, and I also hope that the twist we have now seen on wearing mouth caps will help to reduce infections quickly and to prevent further damage to health and the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u360	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u361	Thank you, Mr President. The motion I have is actually about ourselves. We are doing our best to fill Parliament here, and you are also doing very much to make this possible in accordance with the corona rules. But there are always a lot of MPs here, because you never know exactly when there will be a vote. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, in connection with the management of the coronavirus and the impact of the crisis on the parliamentary process, a temporary working method of the House of Representatives is in place;]] [[noting that requesting a roll-call vote is an individual right of Members of Parliament enshrined in the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure;]] [[having noted that the working arrangements as agreed on 26 August 2020 state that there will be a vote by political group every Tuesday and roll-call votes in principle after the regular votes;]] [[Considering that most political groups keep their members at home in many debates, late in the night and three days a week, because Members of Parliament can always make a request for a roll-call vote or table a motion of censure;]] [[Whereas this approach is at odds with the current standard of "work at home unless" and, in addition, has a very heavy impact on MPs and employees involved in the primary process;]] [[calls on the Presidium to ensure that the following text is added immediately to the existing Corona working arrangements of that date. 26 August 2020:]] [["If a Member of Parliament makes use of the individual's right to request a roll-call vote during a debate, and if he/she considers that it is not possible to wait until the next Tuesday, this will be voted on the next Chamber's day. This also applies to motions of censure, unless the person in question (before the debate) has already indicated that he wants clarity immediately after the debate. If it is a debate with a deadline, for example a debate prior to a European summit, then this agreement may be waived by mutual agreement and may be voted on at the time of its adoption.']] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Jetten, Mr Klaver, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher, Mr Segers, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Van Brenn, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Azarkan, Mr Baudet, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Krol.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-594]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u362	I think that's the whole room, excluding the PVV. But apart from that, I would like to ask Mr Dijkhoff of the VVD whether it is not simply our job as MPs to be here when we meet. We deserve what is it? €6,000 net per month in salary. Isn't that just part of the risk that we have to vote? Don't you agree with me? Suppose this sitting ended at 10 p.m. and we would still vote because one Member asked, then the sitting would take 15 minutes longer. On roll-call votes in three groups, we do 15 minutes per motion. So there is no extra burden on the employees. Instead of 10:00 p.m., they can go at 10:15 p.m. The only extra tax is for the MPs, but they get paid €6,000. So what's the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u363	This isn't about money or doing your job at all. It is not a question of MEPs having to vote less. Maybe the next day they should come to The Hague for an extra day, while they had other appointments with people, mostly digital nowadays, to do their job. There's more work than just here in plenary. The President of the German Bundestag has sometimes said that you recognize an inactive parliament when all Members of Parliament are watching each other in the benches during each debate, because then they obviously have no way of having influence and impact somewhere else. I think it is wise not to have too many people in this building at the same time if that is not necessary and to make good arrangements with each other when you are making travel movements and when you are not and when you can count on a vote or not. I do not think it is too much to ask, if anyone wants a roll-call vote, to do that the next day in the morning and to sleep on it. I don't think that's gonna cause a problem for our work either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u364	No, but we meet in plenary three days a week in this country. Many members go to the country on Fridays and Mondays and go to work. All great and fine, but there are three days a week we have to meet. The Constitution then provides that a person may request a roll-call vote. I didn't make that up; the Constitutionalist made that up. It does not matter for the staff, because the members of the political groups do not have to stay if the members remain. The staff of the Chamber should stay 15 minutes longer. I think it's a bit of an inappropriate argument, because the employees don't have to stay. For staff working for the Chamber and for the primary trial, the meeting is not at 10:00, but at 10:15. So the only reason is that you seem to think that you should think that those MPs do not need to be there. Those MPs will indeed not have to run away to the parking garage if there is a vote. You made sure, with the whole Chamber together, that a vote was taken a day later. But this is where we work, right? This is what we're working for 17,5 million people for, isn't it? This is what we're paid for, isn't it? It's about staying 15 minutes longer or staying all day, at least three days a week. I'm not gonna use big words, but that's what we're here for, isn't it? Maybe you're right that voting a day later in terms of technique doesn't make any difference from day and night, but I find it so weird. This is our job. We have to be here three days a week. Employees don't have to stay when we're here at night. In fact, you are effectively destroying the right to roll-call votes. You're not doing it formally, because I'm still allowed to file that motion. But in substance you say: we will vote on it later, even if it is a motion of censure. That actually removes that constitutional right. And why? So you can go home with your members on time and don't have to sneak out anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u365	A few things. Mr Wilders really is making something of the Constitution that is not there. The Constitution gives no one the right to have a roll-call vote carried out immediately. It just doesn't say that. A motion of censure is certainly not a constitutional article. That was once created out of courtesy to the cabinet so that it does not have to wait when it wonders what its position is in relation to the Chamber. It has never been a right of a parliamentarians to force an immediate vote on a motion of censure. That was a courtesy to cabinet members. That has indeed become something else in recent years. There have been many motions of censure that have not been voted on immediately on the same day. That's the first thing. Second. The fact that Members of Parliament left in a vote was not to vote on it, but because people were not all present and to ensure that it would be voted on at a time when all Members of Parliament had the opportunity to vote on it. For example, the result would be a good representation of the results of the elections and the distribution of Chamber seats as it would be here. That's what happened then. We don't want to do that again. That's what we're trying to prevent. No one here is harmed by constitutional law. I think that in many places MPs do very good work in many ways without being in this building and without sitting in these benches waiting for a vote. It may happen that people who work elsewhere one day still have to make a travel movement to The Hague, an area that is now being said: do not travel there if you don't have to. Then there is no need for people to sit at work when they don't have to and the advice is to work at home as much as possible. For example, we have a way of setting an example as much as possible to respect the corona rules and regulations and to ensure that all the constitutional rights of each individual parliamentarians are guaranteed and respected and that all Members of Parliament are able to vote on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u366	Finally. Habitary law is also applicable law. It doesn't matter if it's because we want to be nice to the cabinet in motion of censure. It's customary law. It may not have happened for once, but it is customary state law to vote on a motion of censure immediately. The right to do so is certainly being destroyed. I think what you say about the Members is even more important. Again, it doesn't apply to employees. Members of the political groups do not have to be here at night when there is a debate. The employees of the primary process of the Chamber, whose well-being I also care about, should stay 15 minutes longer if you vote immediately. That's not gonna turn the place upside down. In my opinion, MPs should be here during the day. If you say that these MPs stay at home all day, but I don't think that's the case. They're here anyway, for committee meetings or for other activities. Most of them are here anyway. So Mr Dijkhoff is concerned that Members of Parliament can just go home at 6 p.m. That's what it's about. They don't have to stay. Besides, they rarely sit in the benches. They're either sitting in their room or in a committee room, or they're receiving someone. The point is that they can just go home at 6:00, that they can go to their husband, wife, girlfriend or whatever and that they can get home in time for dinner. I think you should just be here on the three Room days a week, stay here and be here at night. We get paid well for that. Again, it's not even material that we vote a day later, but the reasoning that that would be unfair and that we put the process aside is wrong. $6,000 a month makes 150 people here. I believe that you will then be allowed to stay for three days until the end of the sitting, even if a Member exercises his constitutional right, or normal law in the event of a motion of censure, or asks for a roll-call vote. I just don't think it's fair that you motivate it that way. You're gonna make it with that motion. According to reading, 130 people will make that motion. I just don't think it's fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u367	In my turn, I do not think it is fair to use the motives of Members of Parliament who do want to do so and who support it as if they do not want to do their job and want to be home on time. This is intended to make a full contribution to how we work on the corona rules. Nor does "work at home" say "work at home below a certain salary level." Corona doesn't take your income into account in the way it spreads or doesn't. There will also be MPs who will one day only come to The Hague because there is a risk of a vote and who would otherwise have done their work in another place. Habitat changes. It's evolving. It has not only happened once that there has not been a direct vote on a motion of censure. In that we also see changes in habits. Once again, no constitutional right of a Member of Parliament is violated in this way. The parliamentary process is only made clearer. It's not contained in any way. We also adhere to the corona rules as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u368	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u369	Mr President, a number of motions for resolutions. The most important thing today, apart from the mouth caps, is I think that it is likely to go wrong with the regular care. That would be unacceptable. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to put crisis care in order in the event of a pandemic in order not to have to scale down regular care for patients with, for example, cancer, heart failure, kidney failure or pain,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-595]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u370	Then there is the motion that I shall table every debate until it is realized. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Cabinet to ensure a substantial structural increase in the salaries of the care staff;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-596]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u371	Then the staff, the care workers in hospital care and nursing care. We're short of that. I am further informed, but I would like the Chamber to give a ruling on this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Cabinet to urgently increase the number of care staff, e.g. by seducing people with a higher salary, by making part-time work more attractive, by allowing managers to join in the workplace and by putting students into training,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-597]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u372	Finally, thank you to the Prime Minister for informing me, or at least some of his ministers, about the discussions with the catering industry. That's a sector that gets caught hard. I think we should reverse the austerity from the support packages. Otherwise, we won't have any business left, so we won't have any more jobs. Hence my fourth and final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to reverse austerities in the third aid package for the next two quarters and to come forward with a financial package for affected sectors in order to prevent bankruptcies and protect jobs and incomes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-598]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u373	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u374	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u375	Mr. Chairman. We've had a lot of corona debates together. Some will stay with you and this debate will certainly be one. I feel that this is an important step with a change from what we did earlier when it comes to the mouth caps. I thought it was a good debate. I like the way in which the Chamber has in the end brought about a change: this is what we want together, right through political colours. At that point, I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of corona infections in the Netherlands is increasing rapidly;]] [[Whereas several European countries require the use of mouth caps within the public area;]] [[Considers that the top priority is to contain the covid virus;]] [[calls on the Government to include the wearing of masks in the interiors of commercial and public buildings in the corona basic rules,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Klaver, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Jetten, Mr Asscher, Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Segers, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Brenn and Mr Marijnissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-599]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u376	It has been limited on the support package, but that also makes sense in this debate. I'm sure we're gonna get to talk about this a lot, but I'm really worried about all thosezzp'ers. And especially thosezzp'ers who do have a partner, but whose partner doesn't have a huge income that puts their family at risk at the moment. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in view of the additional measures needed to limit the spread of the coronavirus, it is reasonable to continue to support the self-employed generously;]] [[noting that for this reason it was jointly decided not to enter the power test in the Tozo;]] [[Whereas the partner test may also pose major financial problems for the self-employed;]] [[calls on the Government to also terminate the partner test in the Tozo,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-600]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u377	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am tabling two motions despite the fact that I hope to get the answer from the Prime Minister in the second term, but my chance is now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the autumn holidays are at hand;]] [[noting that during the press conference the Cabinet strongly advised people to limit their travel movements as much as possible, but did not consider air travel;]] [[Whereas travel organisations and airlines offer plenty of autumn holidays to risk areas such as France, Spain, Egypt and Turkey, often without reporting negative travel and quarantine advice;]] [[calls on the government to communicate clearly before the start of the autumn holidays that flight holidays to risk areas are undesirable, for example at the next coronaper conference,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Esch, Mr Van Raan and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-601]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u378	In March, the OMT advised at the height of the crisis to remove flights from risk areas. That's why my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, during the first wave, flight bans were imposed on fireplaces such as China, Italy, Spain and Austria on the basis of OMT advice;]] [[Whereas we are in the middle of the second wave and everything must be done to close holes in our dike monitoring;]] [[noting that almost 40,000 people travel weekly to risky areas and that the autumn holiday is on the doorstep;]] [[noting that the Minister of VWS may impose a flight ban on the basis of the Public Health Act;]] [[calls on the Government to request an OMT opinion on the risk of the introduction of the virus through returning passengers from at-risk areas, and on the introduction of flight bans to and from at-risk areas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Esch and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-602]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u379	Then, in my last ten seconds, I have the request that the three motions adopted by the Chamber this summer should be carried out absolutely in the case of slaughterhouses. That is not the case now, so once again this call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u380	You have one more second. Thank you. Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u381	Mr. Chairman. In my first term I was talking about the person I spoke to this weekend, who said: I know I have to change my behavior, but I really prefer to postpone it for as long as possible. Today, during this debate, I saw the messages coming from all kinds of organisations already in the process of announcing the mask directive. I also get signals from both Amsterdam and Rotterdam that in supermarkets people are already walking around with mouth caps. When you see that, I hope we can see that a lot of Dutch people realise that the second wave is serious and that we need to change our behaviour. I welcome some of the answers given by the Cabinet and the look-through on a number of very relevant issues. First of all, I'm talking about testing society. Minister De Jonge tells us how much is happening now with regard to the rapid tests, so that in two weeks we can have a look at how we can speed up the process towards next year. But I also refer to the answers given by the Prime Minister on both the German and the Irish models, which we can learn to do better in the implementation of the Jetten motion. This can also help to kick out fires that rise regionally before we are back on national measures. I hope that in two weeks' time we will see in the letter we will receive with the developments in both cases that the number of infections is no longer increasing but decreasing. If we don't, I'm afraid we'll be back here sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u382	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u383	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Minister Van Ark for the commitment that we will receive a letter containing the opinion on the use of personal protective equipment by all healthcare workers who cannot keep the 1.5 meter distance. So that's good. I would like to ask Minister De Jonge, but perhaps he is already doing it if he wants to involve the Red Team in the implementation of the Jetten motion. I'd like to hear if that's possible. Mr. Chairman. Because I'm worried about companies getting hit again, I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the aid and recovery package must be appropriate to economic activity restrictive measures;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain the current emergency package of jobs and the economy for the duration of the additional restrictive measures introduced on 29 September last;]] [[calls on the Government to take appropriate measures in respect of sectors which are now hard hit by new restrictions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-603]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u384	Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the ordinary normal, in which I do indeed again at least that hug and that kiss... I look forward to that with warmth, as you understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u385	That sounds very exciting. Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga. It's happening really fast!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u386	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a new rule has been introduced that a maximum of 30 persons will apply to indoor spaces at 6 p.m. on 29 September 2020;]] [[Whereas it disproportionately penalises larger indoor spaces;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether this hard limit of 30 persons for each interior space can be replaced by a limit of a number of persons per square metre,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-604]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u387	Then there is a motion that I have tabled before, but which was not adopted by mistake. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is unrest in society regarding the reliability of the PCR test;]] [[Whereas the PCR test provides the basis for the corona measures;]] [[invites the Government to forward the validation report (Real Life Practice-Based Validation) on the PCR test to the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-605]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u388	Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Cabinet for the answers, especially when it comes to the escalator ladder and the mouth caps. Then I have another question, a motion and a final remark. The question is about mouth caps. I do not know if Minister Van Ark has gone into that, but there are people who, for example, have difficulties, problems because of a ggz background. Is that being handled smoothly? Can we expect some flexibility in this respect? As far as the mouth caps are concerned, I have asked a question about making mouth caps available to people with a narrow scholarship. At that point, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in more and more places there is a duty or advice to wear a mask;]] [[Whereas people with narrow stock exchange mouth caps should also be available to participate in society;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with municipalities and Food Banks, to consider how mouth caps can be made available to people who are already calling on them for help, and to inform the Court in the next progress letter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver, Mr Van Brenn, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-606]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u389	Finally, Madam President. I just got a book from my colleague Asscher from the poet Willem Elsschot. I have no idea why, but of course I went into it for a while. I stumbled upon the beautiful poem of my mother. It ends like this: We haven't embraced each other in so long. I sometimes got a little too big or too bright, You too dull and too old? Is our love impoverished? Mother, are we estranged from each other? We just saw the romance between colleague Van Brenn and the Prime Minister. I'm thinking about my mom now. For example, we all have someone in our minds who we would very much like to close in our arms again. Mr Asscher, thank you for the beautiful book by Willem Elsschot. I'm gonna read it all. From now on, I will have every background in every poem completely sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u390	Thank you, Mr Segers. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u391	Mr. Chairman. Mr Wilders spoke of customary law. If it becomes the habit of getting a beautiful poetry collection from Mr. Asscher when you quote a poem, that is a nice incentive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u392	Yeah, a new habit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u393	I would like to thank the rulers very much for their reply and come back to one point. First of all, I come to the issue of education. I get regular reports that people are worried if we don't test there now. To what extent do you run the risk of developing under the radar into an infection shark? Perhaps the rulers would like to deal with that concern. Well, then, about the masks. I supported Mr Klaver's motion. I have already said that it is important for my group that this is an urgent opinion rather than a legal measure. But that is a discussion that may follow later in the Chamber. Questions may arise as to exactly what the opinion means. Maybe it's okay if the Prime Minister responds to the age it applies to. I myself assumed that the same thing that is also common in public transport is going to be about 13 years and older. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. There is no doubt that we will have a follow-up debate on whether these measures will indeed be sufficient, which is now hidden in the future, in order to bring closer to the objective we are hoping for together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u394	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u395	Thank you, Mr President. A clear roadmap, clear communication and clear language: we have established that this helps to ensure predictable corona policy and support. I welcome the response of the cabinet, which says that this roadmap will be further developed in the next two weeks and will be strengthened for the second alert phase. Then, hopefully, for the coming months, we will have much more clarity as to when what measures will come into effect and when they will be made more flexible. As far as D66 is concerned, this is all possible in the context of smart freedoms and not so much in the context of increasing restrictions, towards smart lockdown. Mr. Chairman. I have also drawn attention to the broader perspective, not just public health, but also to the question of what the measures mean for loneliness and for social impacts such as increasing learning disadvantages. That is why the Asscher/Jetten motion just now calls for schools to provide us with updated guidelines and as many pupils as possible to take lessons. I would also like to draw attention to the Van Meenen motion, which has been adopted before, because it has just become clear that every day 1,000 children in the Netherlands cannot go to child care because childcare workers still cannot be given priority in testing. I have discussed this extensively with Minister De Jonge before. Once again, I would like to draw his attention to this major problem, which prevents many children from receiving the necessary care, which also affects parents who cannot go to work as a result. Mr. Chairman. Finally. It happened last week in the debate with a faint remark by Mr Asscher about the Minister's holiday. Mr Krol also just did it, with a faint remark about a minister who packs the bags and goes to the sun. In this House, we may have a very strong debate on the Corona approach, but please let us not make these comments in the direction of ministers who really work their legs off to combat the corona crisis as effectively as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u396	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u397	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The approach to the coronavirus is not a sprint, is not a few sprints, but is a long, tough marathon. I thank the rulers for their answer, but also for the fact that they take precedence. If I occasionally have a bit of verbal scratching, biting or kicking, that is of course out of pure affection. Mr. Chairman. I've got three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many people claim to support the corona rules, but do not seem to follow them themselves;]] [[Whereas human behaviour is an important aspect in reducing infection transmission;]] [[calls on the Government to recognise that behavioural changes and studies of behaviour in relation to the follow-up of COVID-19 specific measures should be better integrated into the current approach to the corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people with complaints should be able to test according to current corona policy;]] [[Whereas, due to low test capacity in red areas in the Netherlands, people must travel outside the city limits for a corona test, which does not recommend travelling with them or in company;]] [[calls on the Government to facilitate home testing on COVID-19 for physically weak and elderly, and others belonging to the corona risk group with the highest mortality rates,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government has imposed that people should wear face-covering clothing in public transport;]] [[noting that the government advises to wear facial clothing on public occasions;]] [[noting that the Law partially prohibits facial covering clothing in this light causes confusion;]] [[calls on the Government to temporarily terminate the Law on the partial prohibition of facial covering clothing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-607]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-608]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-609]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u398	Thank you. And thank you for presiding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u399	Thank you. That's the second time you've done that. Last time, too. I like that very much. You're the only one doing it, by the way. I now give the floor to Mr Krol. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u400	Madam President. I am glad that it has been thought to look with the field at a concentration of corona treatments to relieve the burden of regular care. I would like to encourage the Minister to give more direction to that himself. Hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands is now inundated by a second wave of corona contamination;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the possibilities for more concentration of corona care in certain regional hospitals, so that regular care can proceed as far as possible, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-610]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u401	And finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas significant behavioural changes are necessary to control the corona pandemic;]] [[calls on the government to improve communication as soon as possible by introducing a well-thought-out strategy of colour alerts linked to alert levels and linking clear behaviours, similar to the alert card from Ireland,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-611]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u402	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor. In the meantime, the Asscher motion in part No. 592 amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u403	The motion-Asscher c.s. (, No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the new corona measures have seriously affected people in the hospitality, arts and culture, tourism, events, sport and other sectors;]] [[calls on the Government to remain in dialogue with the affected sectors and to consider the need for new and targeted support measures and to inform the Court within a few weeks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 592 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u404	Mr President, thank you. The motion in part No. 592 of the Labour Party, therefore, has changed into: calls on the government to remain in talks with the affected sectors and to consider whether new and targeted aid measures are needed and the Chamber... Then the verdict is Chamber with this change. The motion in part No. So 592 has changed, hasn't it? The amended motion in part No. 592: Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 593: Judgment Room. There are already comprehensive, clear guidelines for schools in the form of a service document made by OCW and their elaboration in the protocols of the PO Council and the VO Council both for taking action and for tackling infections. The latest version dates from the end of August. These can be updated. From the field, here and by, they mean from the sector, from the schools. Moreover, we have not received any signals from the field so far that more clarity is needed. The OMT has so far been clear about the infectious effects of children. Additional measures do not appear to be necessary there. The safety of teachers is not at stake here either. There are infections, but they are relatively limited so far. For the mouth caps the line is clear and consistent: there is no medical reason to do so. Schools can decide for themselves if they involve the participation council well. The Minister is in constant contact with education and will take this into account. The report on ventilation and the follow-up approach will follow tomorrow. Having said all of this: Judge Chamber on motion in part No. 593. On the motion in part No. 594 We do not judge. The motion in part No. 598: dissuade. The package's breathing. The motion in part No. 599: Judgment Room. It is now in progress, but it is a good thing that we are updating the administration here by means of this motion. But this is, of course, quite good in itself. The motion in part No. 600 asks the partner test to be disabled. Applying the partner income test reduces the difference with regular assistance. Then the treatment of people in the Tozo is better in line with the treatment of people who, due to the corona crisis, have to rely on the ordinary Participation Act. Even after the introduction of the partner test, self-employed persons are insured with a household income at the social minimum. Since its introduction on 1 June, the test has contributed to the responsibility of the entrepreneur himself to adapt to the new economic reality. So I want the motion in part no. 600 dissuaded. Before I get to the motion in part No. 601 come to Mrs Van Esch on this point; I will come to the motion in a moment. Her question was why holidays are not banned to orange travel areas. The Cabinet considers it important that people adhere to the travel advice as much as possible. We cannot impose an obligation on carriers, just as we cannot keep motorists all at the border. I had promised to check it out, and my colleague from Infrastructure and Water State is therefore talking to the travel and flight industry, as well as to the bus and train carriers, to inform passengers even more actively where possible about the travel advice, not to promote travel to at-risk areas, and not to work at stunt prices at all. At the request of your Chamber, we will consider what is legally possible to prevent this. At the request of the Chamber, the cabinet will also look into how people can be even more aware of the fact that orange areas are not meant for holidays and of the risks and consequences of this: the extent to which you are insured, quarantine upon return, etc., all these consequences. The legal reality will also be reviewed in this context. It is and will continue to be the responsibility of the traveller to take due account of the travel advice. In view of the high number of infections in the Netherlands, we have called on people to limit their travel movements. Against that background, the motion is given in part No. 601 Judgment Room. We will. The motion in part No. 603 is about the ongoing emergency package. The package breathes in steps of three months. That is also necessary to make it work with the economy. So the motion in part No. 603: dissuade. The motion in part No. 604 asks for the personal limit to be reduced. I'm afraid I'm also dissuaded. We really need to stop the spread. This would be unwise. So the motion in part No. 604 by Van Haga: dissuade. Then the motion to part No. 606 by Mr Segers and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group): Judgement Room. Sympathetic. We see, for example, that the municipality of Rotterdam already manages to put this into practice and makes five dust- washable mouth caps available to minimum levels. We are going to discuss it with municipalities, for example through the VNG, to see how they can give hands and feet to this. It is ultimately up to the food banks themselves to decide on this within the budgetary framework. As far as the environment is concerned, it is of course better if they are washable, but that applies in general, not only to people who have a small grant. The motion in part No. 609 on the decommissioning of the ban on facial clothing, I must advise against. That won't be necessary. The law allows face-covering clothing, insofar as this is necessary for safety and public health. So that exception is in the law. Mr. Chairman. Those were the motions I wanted to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u405	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u406	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, the motion in part No. 591 in conjunction with the motion in part No. 611. The motion in part No. 591 is SP c.s. and the motion in part No. 611 belongs to Krol. Both call on the Cabinet to convert the roadmap into a useful schedule for public communication, in its own words.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is actually what I promised, so you could say: support policy, unnecessary. But we're not gonna do that, because it's a beautiful day, so: Judge Room. The motion in part No. 602 asks the OMT for advice on incoming travel plus flight ban. Where the OMT is concerned about incoming travel, they already advise us on that. But a flight ban is an extremely rigorous instrument. We shouldn't take that lightly, so I'm going to discourage this motion. The motion in part No. 605 asks for the PCR test validation report, "confirming that there is unrest in society regarding the reliability of the PCR test'. I also sometimes come to a single place in society where they talk about other things than the PCR test. Anyway, I just saw some pictures coming by. Maybe we'll get into other corners of society as well; that could happen. However, the request to the government to send "the validation report on the PCR test to the Chamber as soon as possible" is good, because let us be as transparent as possible about all reviews, outcomes and so on. But perhaps then you would like to promise that that report under the arm will resume the conversation with Lange Frans. Then the motion to part No. 607 of DENK/Azarkan, who asks to "recognize that behavioural change needs to be better integrated." Yeah, we're actually doing it. So the motion supports policy, but I'm still giving her judgment Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 608 about facilitating home testing. We are already doing that, but we do think that we need more. If you want to test with high volume, there is of course a limit to the fineness, one-on-one, home at home. But especially in the case of really vulnerable people, it has to be done at home, and that is already happening, among other things through general practitioners. GGDs are also looking for ways to do it even more finely. So if I may take the motion as an encouragement in that direction, I should like to leave it to the House to decide. Those were the motions. A number of questions have also been asked. Mr Van der Staaij asks to what extent you keep an eye on the development of complaints if you have fewer tests at schools, for example. I assume that he means that children up to 12 years old may but no longer have to comply with the new directive. The OMT has advised that testing children under 12 years of age is not of very great added value and can sometimes get in the way of schooling children. So it has been advised that you do not have to. In fact, however, there is also the spring directive: if more than three children have complaints in a classroom, schools are supposed to report that to the GGD, so that the GGD can decide to carry out an additional study there. In this way people try to keep an eye on that age group from 0 to 12. The Animal Party has asked about the state of affairs surrounding a number of motions. I think it concerns three motions by Mrs Ouwehand. The Minister of LNV will inform the Chamber for the Budgetary Treatment of LNV in detail about the state of play on these three motions. I think that does the most justice to its content. Mr. Chairman. That's it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u407	Thank you. Oh, Mrs. Van Brenk has a question, Minister. Mrs Van Brenk has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u408	I had asked if the Red Team would be involved in the Jetten motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u409	Well, yeah... We do not have very much time to do the work that goes with it, because there is a lot of work to be done, especially if you want to go through the content of the regulations in a good way with the security regions. All experts can, of course, co-think, ask and unsolicited. That's what's happening. The same goes for the Red Team. The cabinet advisor is really the OMT and that's still the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u410	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u411	Thank you, Mr President. I have one more question and a few motions. In Mr Segers' question about people in the ggz, in order to deal smoothly with wearing mouth caps, I did not get in the easiest way whether it was the medical mouth masks used in the treatment of people in the ggz, or whether it was people dealing with ggz-related issues and looking at the advice on wearing... So the last one? Okay. In this case, we already have an exception for people with disabilities. For shops it is of course an advice. So there is room for relaxation. But you might think: why do you still have to take that exception into account? For example, if you have a disability or are dealing with a behavioral disorder, you are excluded from it. So I think I can definitely promise that we will apply that flexibility. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the motions. The motion in part No. 589, by Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver, is about better structural appreciation for care. With reference to the previous debates we have had on this issue, I would advise against this motion. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 590, by Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver, I give my opinion to the Chamber, also in response to the debate we had on this subject, to the additional measures recommended by the OMT on 28 September, including the preventive use of nose masks, the treatment advice of Verenso, which is taken as a starting point, and the own space that nursing homes have. Indeed, for all nursing homes which proceed to preventive use of mouth and nose masks, they should also be sufficiently available. I told you about the analysis we're getting done. I'll get back to the Chamber on that as well. This motion I give judgment Chamber. I shall now come to Mr Wilders' motion on item No. 595. I heard him right when it comes to scaling down regular care. I myself said in my speech that it is not even an objective we are working on in terms of regular care. He asks the government to put crisis care in order, for this purpose too. I would like to leave the opinion on this motion to the House, but I do have a number of things to clarify. Of course, the government does not itself control the organisation of care. We facilitate, and we try to do it as best we can. For example, it is the medical specialists who are now looking at what care you can scale without endangering people. They're organizing that, too. Of course, it is always difficult to give guarantees, but I understood Mr Wilders in the debate that he also considers this to be a very important objective. That's why I'm giving this motion judgment Chamber. Mr Wilders' motion for a resolution (Doc. 596, on the structural increase of the salary in care, I advise, with reference to previous debates. Mr Wilders' motion for a resolution (Doc. 597 is about providing more care staff as a matter of urgency. We are now doing a lot to reduce the deficit, especially with the Work in Care programme, including the additional resources. But it's not about extra pay. It's about more hours of work. So I advise against this motion. I shall now turn to Mr Krol's motion for a resolution. 610 on the study of the concentration of hospitals where corona care can take place. I disagree with him on that. We have clearly heard from the field how it is important that corona care can be delivered in all places, especially in the first phase of scaling up of ic-beds. The distribution of patients also takes place in regular situations, especially in order to keep regular care possible. So I'm not suggesting this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u412	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-8.u413	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Prime Minister, as well as the Minister of Medical Care and the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
