ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u1	Before I give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, I propose to allow four questions in the government's term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u2	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've been out of the running for a while, but it still feels familiar to talk here about the Intelligence and Security Services Act. I am very happy to see you all again in good health. It was, indeed, just recalled by many speakers, more than two years ago that there was an advisory referendum on this law and that a majority of the people who were then going to vote could not agree with what was then. I am actually rather proud that the cabinet took that signal very seriously at the time and was actually quite quickly able to come up with concrete proposals and measures to address these concerns, and immediately turned it into policy rules, so that it was dealt with immediately. At that time, I also promised that the cabinet would do the same, because that also applies to the other service, of course, that we would include it in the law. That is what is going on here: to speed up the drafting of these weighting notes for international cooperation and to impose the requirement of focus on the use of powers. There is more in the proposal and you have all asked questions about it, but I think that is a fundamental point. This requirement obliges the services to use their resources as specifically as possible and to justify this in the application. As far as we are concerned, that demand is now laid down in the law. It's been working on it for two years. The crux is of course that you want to use your resources as focused as possible. That can also be done and at the same time the services are there to discover hidden threats. That requires very careful action. Evil state actors use the digital space there is also to attack us in a secretive way. So I hope that this balance is well explained in the texts too. We have therefore gone a step further than the Chamber did at the time in the Recourt motion, because this bill states that not only the special but all acquiring powers should be used as precisely as possible. I believe that this reflects the concerns expressed by society, but also, for example, those expressed by the CTIVD. So that search for the balance between security and privacy actually evokes a bit of a false contradiction that actually isn't there. Firstly, it is not just privacy, it is all fundamental rights. It is therefore more than just privacy, including, for example, freedom of expression and free news garage, which are also very important fundamental rights. The aim is to have a law that provides effective safeguards for the protection of people's privacy while at the same time ensuring effective performance of the important tasks that the services have to protect all Dutch people. The services are working very hard on that. Thanks to the CTIVD, also much celebrated here today, your Chamber itself knows how the implementation of the law goes and how the safeguards in the law are actually already part of the daily practice of the services. In my introduction, I would also like to point out that there is now an independent evaluation committee. That committee will enable you and the cabinet to make further improvements. That is the next step in this long and careful process. We've also advanced that evaluation. Listening to everything that's passed here today, I think this is good, too. Apart from what we now regulate in this law, there are other questions that the evaluation committee can take with it. For example, technology independence at the time was one of the main reasons for adapting the Wiv. It is very good that the committee is going to look into whether it has succeeded to a sufficient extent, precisely because this technique is developing so quickly. I informed the Chamber about the composition of the committee. The President is Ms Jones-Bos and the Members are experts in various areas, such as law evaluation, operational knowledge, data processing and human rights. So that committee is quite wide-ranging. The members of the committee have now been screened and are equipped with supporting human resources. Besides, they have housing that is coronaproof. So it's nice that the committee started working. Many of the speakers have praised the work of the services and especially the people who work there. I was glad to hear that, because they also do very important work. Maybe you didn't know, but the AIVD just celebrated her 75th birthday. We've been thinking about that together. The AIVD has been working for 75 years in the interests of the democratic rule of law and in the interests of the freedom of all Dutch people. I thought I'd remind you of that here. Mr. Chairman. I've been trying to sort out the answers to the questions. First of all, something general. This concerns the provision of unevaluated data and then on informants and bulk data, targeting and evaluation. Finally, I have a set of other questions. So if you're thinking "I'm not going to be dealt with," then you're in the other set. I will, of course, also respond to the three amendments that have been tabled. Mr. Chairman. I have already said a few words about justice for the outcome of the referendum. The cabinet therefore considers that it has done so. We had an extensive debate on this two years ago. I have mentioned a number of issues that we now deal with by law, but which have been in force for two years through the policy rules and through the implementation practice. That's actually what we've been trying to do. We have tried to have a law that had a long run-up period and which has been discussed very extensively, including with the previous cabinet, and which then became subject to an advisory referendum... In fact, Mr Verhoeven has just outlined this. In doing so, we have shown that we are listening to the results, indicating the results and tightening up the law, precisely in order to respond to the concerns voiced by the result. So what we are dealing with now is another step in that direction. But it's not a final moment, either. That is why the evaluation and, not to mention, the supervisory reports are very important, I think. Of course, we must and always want to act accordingly. Some questions have been asked about the provision of the unevaluated data. Maybe I can explain in advance why unevaluated data is actually being provided. That is because we ourselves are not always able to interpret all the data correctly. But if we work with others, we can. The exchange of data can therefore very much help to determine whether or not there are certain threats that we can derive from them. It is then extremely important that you realize that that must be done very carefully. So that can't just happen. That is guaranteed. That's what's gonna happen. It is often in the context of long-term operational cooperation that the services have with other services, i.e. with a limited number of foreign services. A weighting note shall be drawn up. That weighting note must also show that it is permissible, so that those unevaluated data may be provided. Of course, we do not want to violate fundamental rights or to violate them as little as possible. So that's what we're really constantly paying attention to. There is therefore a trade-off between the services themselves. They're wondering the following. Is this really necessary in the context of a good task? Is it in accordance with the legal requirements of care and fairness? We're looking at the weighting note. We're making a risk assessment: what could happen? And then permission is requested from the person in charge, i.e. me or the Secretary of Defense. In addition, a provision to the CTIVD is reported. In short, I think it's well embedded in a structure, so it can't happen unthinkingly, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u4	The people have said: we do not want our unevaluated data, of which the AIVD does not know what it is, to be shared with abroad. The Minister said earlier: we do so, for example, when there is a direct threat of an attack. I asked the Minister to explain that. But now the Minister says that it has a very different reason: we have a very large amount of information, and the AIVD and the STUDY are not able to analyse it enough. Then other countries are going to help us analyze that huge bulk of information. Is that what the minister here means?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u5	Well, they're actually two different examples. I gave one example in my introduction. That example is indeed that through cooperation you can gather more information about possible threats to our national security. Another example, which Mr Van Raak mentioned in his first term, is: if there is an imminent threat, which is therefore very acute, then that is another situation, but that may indeed be a reason to share information. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u6	The people have made a very fundamental statement: we understand that our own AIVD and STUDY need to know things about us if that is necessary for our safety. The people were willing to be convinced of that. But we do not want our data, of which our secret services do not even know what it is, to be given to other secret services.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u7	No, but that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u8	Let me ask the questions first, or I won't be able to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u9	Oh, sorry. I thought you were done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u10	We do not want our data to be given to other secret services. That's the lower limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u11	Now the Minister says: there is actually a technical reason why we do that. There is a basic statement by the people 'we really do not want to', but then the Minister says: we are doing it anyway, because technically our services are not ready to analyse all this. That's a completely different level, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u12	That's not exactly what I said. I have said that the analysis of bulk data often improves in cooperation with other services. I didn't say the services couldn't do it. I've said that sometimes they just aren't able to analyze those bulk data sufficiently in relation to the threats that exist. This is why there is cooperation with other services. Mr Van Raak says that people do not want their data to be shared with other services. I understand that very well. Because I don't want to. And I also think it is good and important to stress here today that it is not, of course, just about data from all of us here in the Netherlands at all. Because when we see a problem in the Netherlands, if there is a threat in the Netherlands, we are often very well able within the services to collect that information very focused, sometimes on the person. That doesn't go through bulk data at all. Of course, that is something else when it comes to sometimes distant foreign nationals. You are much less able to collect that information as a service to be very specific and very focused on the person. That's where it comes from more bulk data. So the image that the services would collect massive data about all of us is an incorrect picture. This does not do justice to the work done by the services. And with that we are not at all running the risk of Mr Van Raak sketching here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u13	The minister's making it all wide. I'm trying to get through to the core. Data from Dutch people are shared with foreign countries, data of which we do not know what it says. It has an analytical reason, a technical reason, that secret services, like the NSA or something, should help us, with that huge capacity they have, to analyze our bulk data. That is a technical problem. Isn't that technically fixable? Can't the minister just make sure that the AIVD and the STUDY have enough good stuff to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u14	No, that's not the problem. I said that cooperation is sometimes necessary. Let's assume that most of the threats we're talking about are also threats across the border. These are international threats that can pose a risk in the Netherlands. It is very logical to work with other services from similar countries with a similar form of democratic rule of law and supervision, because they are faced with the same threats. More information comes from cooperation. If you were to conclude that cooperation, you would by definition have less information and thus be less able to deal with those threats, threats to our national security. So that cooperation is crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u15	Finally, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u16	I'll bet the joker! No, we have always been told: we may have to share this information from our citizens, who we do not know, with abroad to prevent attacks, to prevent major immediate disasters. Well, what does it turn out to be, the Minister says? There's a technical reason for that. The Minister says that we need to share our citizens' bulk data with other secret services, the NSA or something, or the English secret service, which have a great analytical capacity, in order to be able to analyse them. Here in the Chamber, there is broad criticism of practices such as those of the NSA, which we are all very angry about and which we say we do not want to do in the Netherlands. In doing so, the Minister must recognise that, isn't it exactly what all those people who didn't want to say no in March 2018?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u17	The answer to that is "no." Because I have just said that it is important that people in the Netherlands know that the services are not at all engaged in the mass collection of data about them. On the contrary, if information is to be collected in the Netherlands, it is really very focused. A second point is, in my opinion, very much understanding in this House, too, that international cooperation is, of course, crucial for the work of the services. Without international cooperation, they will not be able to fulfil their core task of protecting the Netherlands. In doing so, data may be exchanged, if necessary, including unevaluated data. We do that because it can help us identify or supplement the information, to get a better idea of any threats that might be there. But that must be done carefully and with many guarantees. That is why I have just spoken about the weighting notes and care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u18	It does happen as focused as possible, but there are still a lot more data collected than just for people who are suspects. We do not know a lot of things which, in the end, pose a danger; that is what the Minister said. So a lot of data is collected that are not all used. This may include data leading to a journalistic source or to human rights defenders. My question to the Minister, who I also put in my first term, is: how can we ensure that this cannot lead to the insecurity of those people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u19	I think that is a very important point. I will come back to that later. By the way, it is a very long way to end up with this unevaluated data. But I'll get back to you in a minute. Mr. Chairman. Then I guess I did deal with the questions surrounding unevaluated data. Perhaps I should add that when providing data to foreign services, the so-called third party rule is always invoked, I say in the direction of Mr Van Raak, who also spoke about it. This means that the providing service may not transmit the data to another party. It will not reassure Mr Van Raak, but I think it is important to mention that. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to the informants and the bulk data. Mrs Buitenweg, Mrs Van Esch and others have asked questions about this. An amendment has also been tabled on this subject, so I shall come to the debate on the amendments. The situation may arise, and I have had this debate with Mrs Buitenweg before, that someone is providing data to the services, or that the services are asking someone for data. In that case, it's called an informant. So informants are natural persons who, because of the position they hold or otherwise may have or obtain information that may be of interest to the services for a good task. These are people who carry out their activities on a voluntary basis. So an informant decides whether or not he wants to cooperate with the service. Therefore, the services cannot exert any pressure to enforce that cooperation. The only thing that can be done is to provide a financial compensation, in the context of expenses or travel expenses etc., nothing more. In addition, the requirements for the acquisition and further processing of data apply. That is to say, at least, that is what is proposed in this legislative proposal, which also applies to the acquisition of this power. In addition to the acquisition of bulk datasets, policies have been developed on how to handle them. This is therefore about policies that restrict access to and use of these bulk datasets. I believe that all these measures ensure that the services handle this data carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u20	Have you answered the questions relating to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u21	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u22	Okay. Then I'll go to Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u23	These answers were not satisfactory, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u24	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u25	First of all, the idea that everyone does this on a voluntary basis, that when the AIVD approaches you, you can say yes or no on a completely voluntary basis, is not entirely right to the fact that people can also experience pressure. That is one point that I have indeed exchanged with the Minister before. I think that's important. Then about the point of the information that can be provided. The potential for this could be a lot of information. Then it can be said that the AIVD should apply it as purposefully as possible. But the information that can be provided by volunteers can be potentially enormous. For example, I mention all the location and traffic data that will be provided to the CBS on the basis of the cabinet proposal. I would like the Minister to take this example. All these dates can therefore be delivered to the AIVD without the Minister being asked for permission. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u26	I would like to comment on this example, because I have, of course, thought about it. I have also looked at the proposal made by the cabinet. The CBS will soon be able to provide this data to the RIVM. This is very much aimed at the purpose of public health, for which the RIVM is going to use this data. I think it is highly unlikely that the services will be able to request it. On what grounds would the services say that they should have access to this information? How would this relate to the requirement of proportionality and subsidiarity? I don't see it. You should never rule anything out, but in this case, I really can't imagine any of it. I have also said before: the AIVD has already established a super-statutory policy with additional safeguards in relation to bulk data. The Minister must therefore give his consent and the CTIVD must have knowledge of it. I do not see the risk that Mrs Buitenweg sees at all. When it comes to how we deal with bulk data obtained in this way, I understand the question and also Mrs Buitenweg's amendment. I have argued before that I do not think it is necessary to organise it in this way, but I also said that it is a good thing that we have already set up an evaluation committee, which is going to look at the whole and look at bulk data. This question can, of course, be taken into account by the evaluation committee. When the evaluation committee comes up with recommendations, I want, of course, to take them very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u27	I had hoped that the Minister would not only take the committee seriously, but also me. Otherwise, we can pack up here. In every proposal we make, it is said: let us have that looked at by the evaluation committee that I have just set up and which has a coronaproof building. We are also here to see what can possibly be improved in the proposals that are now being put forward here. The Minister says: I do not really see that there are good reasons for using that telecom information by the AIVD. Very well, but then I would like the Minister to check it and that is not the case now. It is now possible that those data from the CBS will be transferred by an informant to the AIVD. The Minister recognizes that, too. I'm not saying it happens, but it can. Then there is no need for any ministerial consent to use that data as well. That's what's bothering me. I want to deal with that today and not after another evaluation has been carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u28	It's two different points. Mrs Buienweg's question is: can I not use this law to regulate a little more than what the cabinet has provided for in it? My starting point is the letter we wrote about it two years ago. It said, "We're legal about this now." A number of other points are also very relevant, but it might be wise to await an evaluation. Hence my suggestion to Mrs Buitenweg, whom I take very seriously, to bring this point to the attention of the evaluation committee, to the extent that it is necessary to bring it to their attention at all. Then I'll get to the CBS data. The services have a legal power to collect information in certain ways and also to collect bulk data. One possibility is to do so via an informant, but it must of course be relevant information for the services. The information that Mrs Buitenweg is talking about is not relevant to the services. And so they won't collect that information either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u29	That information may indeed be relevant, because at the moment you can combine it with multiple sets it is also possible to derive from it where everyone is at what time. Because then you can trace everyone's location. That is not possible with just that one dataset, but it is possible if you combine four datasets, for example. Then it may indeed contain relevant information. What I find complicated is this. It is said that whatever we do here, I will refer it to the evaluation committee in a moment. My point is that there is a legal defect. There's no surveillance on anything. There's no need for the Minister's permission. So what's going to be evaluated? The question if that's a good idea? I mean, that permission is not there, and so that cannot be evaluated. I'd like to add that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u30	The task of the evaluation committee is to look beyond what competence the minister has or does not have and what competence should or should not be added. It is also about the functioning of the law in general and its complexity in terms of technology and independence. So it's also about this kind of thing. In this respect, the Committee has a broad mandate and also wide scope for looking at improvements, but also for shortcomings in the law. So there is nothing that stands in the way of the evaluation committee taking this point too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u31	Does the Minister not find it surprising in principle that it is possible that a lot of data can be collected about a lot of Dutch people and that this does not require prior authorisation from the Minister, even though this is true of the power of towing? I can't reconcile that and I don't think the Minister can do that either, if you just look at the possible impact on the privacy of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u32	Mrs Buitenweg assumes that the services are very interested in all the bulk data that could be offered to them by an informant in the Netherlands, for example someone who has that CBS information. But I'm reasoning the other way around. The services are only interested in certain information. Bulk data about movements of Dutch people, location data such as would be provided to RIVM shortly, are not relevant to the services at all. As I said earlier, services in the Netherlands can generally be very targeted. That does not have to be done through a very cumbersome detour of this kind of data. If Mrs Buitenweg says that there is one hallway in the law, it is indeed secured in all kinds of ways, just not that route via the informant, then I think that in practice there is no problem at all. But I would say to Mrs Buitenweg that if she wanted to be absolutely sure, I would have no objection to that. In fact, I would like to give it to the evaluation committee to make an assessment of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u33	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u34	Mr. Chairman. Then I can switch to judgment. Not many questions were asked about this, but Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen did have a question about it. She believed that things would be organized differently in the US, and if I understood her correctly, perhaps even better. In any case, everything is very different from security services in the US, and the laws are already completely incomparable. I dare say that we have done very well in the Netherlands, including with regard to supervision. And precisely with regard to that focus, we set that legal limit. With this law, with the proposal before us, we get a better law. Care always comes first. As Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen also knows, we have said that we will not do the cable until everything is in order. So I don't know exactly what she was referring to in the comparison with the US, but at least I don't think it's up for this issue. Then I will be on the other points relating to the evaluation. Then I'll deal with all the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u35	The comparison I made is that people in the United States also come back from the fact that gathering bulk information is such a good action to come to the detection of terrorists. There's $100 million in that Surveillance Act and it really didn't come out at all. So perhaps we should stop doing so in advance and simply protect our citizens from the bulk information that is not being evaluated. It was just a suggestion!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u36	I have heard the suggestion, but in fact my whole speech has just been aimed at making sure that we are already changing it with guarantees and care in the law and by prior, during and after supervision. Once again, I would have to look at exactly what has changed in the US in recent times, but I would say that we have done better here. Then the evaluation. I have already said a few things about this in response to Mrs Buitenweg's questions. It might be good to add that the evaluation committee thinks it can do so in six months. They asked for something of a margin, because they also started a little later, because of the corona measures. But I expect that the committee will have that report available by the end of the year and that it will be made public immediately so that we can talk about it. As a result, the question of how workable the law is. Mr Bosman and others asked. This is, of course, also a subject that will be able to come back to the evaluation in the near future. The services will also share the bottlenecks they experience with the evaluation committee. We have already informed you about this from the cabinet in the letter of 12 November. This includes topics such as data reduction for bulk data and automated data analysis. These are topics on which much consultation is still ongoing with the CTIVD and with the TIB. But again, I refer to the letters that have been sent about them. The aim is, of course, always to have a law that works for the services too. That that is quite complex and that there has also had to be a whole transition from the old law to the new one, that the services have had to set up, that is all true. But I expect that we will be able to improve that where necessary after the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u37	Yes, but I think we are looking for how our services can fully serve the safety of the Netherlands. Of course there must be supervision and that must be properly secured in a law. But if the law limits the use of our services to ensure that security, then we have a problem. Then we have a fine law, just... That's where the tension is with me, and that's what I'm looking for. Is that a field of tension with regard to limiting the use of services? Or is the space of the services still such that we can say with confidence: they are still fully at the service of the safety of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u38	The latter is, of course, the case, because that is what the services are for and they should be able to do. So the law, as I see it, is not a restriction on national security, but a measure of what we consider acceptable in our democratic rule of law. So the services work within the framework of this law. They can do that, too. If they are unable to perform their duties as protectors of national security properly, I would inform you. That is not the case, so that can be very good. It may be, and therefore I refer to the evaluation, that there is a degree of complexity in it. I just mentioned the data reduction we're talking about and the deployment of the cable interception we're talking about. That's not all to hang by the law. This may also have to do with technology or with the transition from one system to another. It is not always easy, but I am afraid to answer the question as to whether the services can do their job properly. The answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u39	Ultimately, it is a political responsibility. It is our responsibility, in which we say: this is what we expect from the services and that is what they have to deliver. But if we impose a political restriction and a problem arises from it, then we cannot, pointing to the services, say: yes, but they should have taken it up. So I also look at our responsibility as a political body, as a chamber, but also as a government: to what extent do we allow the services to do so? Or can they also indicate: boy, if you limit this, do you limit our possibilities, or in investigating matters here in the Netherlands, or in contact with foreign services?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u40	Again, the services can do their job well. We have had a lot of debates here about the usefulness and necessity of this change of law, as we now have about this change of law. Of course, this legislative amendment is, to a large extent, actually the legal regulation of something that has worked well in practice for two years. I think that the fact that our security services have a certain degree of limitation on the basis of a law is also what we want to do with each other. We must always be aware of workability, and we must always be aware of changes, changes in threats, changes in technology. The fact that there is a certain degree of progressive work with a law and also amendment of a law, seems to me to be good and logical.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u41	Okay, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u42	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Then the whole set of other questions and answers. I shall begin with Mr Van der Molen. He asked: does the Minister agree with CDA that after her last report for the summer, the CTIVD should continue the interim reports for another year? The CTIVD concludes that series with a fourth progress report. Of course, I look forward to it with interest but also with confidence. Even after this progress report, the CTIVD continues to monitor the work of the services, of course. That's also in the Wiv 2017. She will continue to report on this in regular reports, as is happening now. In the end, I think that the CTIVD should set its own agenda and this seems to me to be a good way to do so. Mr Van der Molen also asked about the digital capabilities of the STUDY where he said that the CTIVD was critical about this, including the impossibility of destroying unnecessary data, I quote Mr Van der Molen. What steps does the Minister take to improve the situation? A responsible implementation of the law naturally requires an up-to-date ICT landscape. This means that work processes need to be adapted and staff trained. That takes time, and that also calls for investment. So it wasn't realized overnight. However, I would like to say this on behalf of Mr Bijleveld, Minister of Defence, to put ICT in order at the STUDY is a high priority for the Minister of Defence. Defence therefore invests a lot in ICT at the STUDY in the coming years. This amounts to EUR 20 million a year in structural terms. Mrs Buitenweg asked: how can it be that work processes and certain policies were not in order after the entry into force of the law? Was that known to the Secretary of State? We have always said that this law was necessary for the services at this time and with this state of the art in order to be able to do their job properly. Otherwise, they couldn't keep up with the technical developments. In the technical implementation of the law, of course, the services also encountered things that they had not fully anticipated in advance. I don't think that's so weird, given the complexity of the law. It's a major legislative change. However, since the entry into force, the services have taken very large steps to meet the requirements of the Wiv 2017. This has also been noted by the supervisors. We have also always highlighted, also in response to the supervisory report, that it was quite a job and that it was not immediately in order, but that things are getting better and better. Mrs Van Esch asked if there were any risks of unlawful acts. That actually ties in with this. The services have already taken important steps and reduced the risks of unlawful acts. We have the CTIVD's progress reports, which Mr Van der Molen asked for. Of course, the supervisor has also expressed an understanding of the complexity of the services involved. They have also shown understanding for the fact that changing policies and changing work instructions has taken a little more time, especially when it comes to technical processes. I just said there's a fourth progress report coming from the CTIVD. Of course, I'm gonna be looking at what's in there with interest. But all the experiences have been taken into account. Something's going to be done with that. In any case, they will also be involved in the announced evaluation. Then there is the alleged lack of supervision in international cooperation. Mrs. Van Esch asked for that. We have just debated the importance of international cooperation. Everyone agrees on the importance of good supervision, and we have good supervisors in the Netherlands. The CTIVD has looked at how supervision works internationally. The supervisory authorities are also trying to cooperate a little more with each other, sometimes with the limitations that this entails because of data protection, for example, but the fact is that the CTIVD has found that not every country has a supervisor like us and that not every supervisor should investigate international cooperation from its own national powers. So multilateral surveillance or international agreements on supervision are not obvious. I don't see that happening very soon. However, I did say that I would like to make an effort to ensure that, where possible, this cooperation is sought between the supervisors and that, within the multilateral collaborations that exist, we also pay attention to supervision. The conversation about this with the CTIVD is ongoing. Mrs Van Esch had another question: how can the TIB refuse applications? Well, that's actually pretty clear. If the services wish to use a special competence, they must do so in accordance with the legal requirements. This means that the Minister must give permission, for example on a tap, and that the TIB assesses legality. Of course, she assesses this on the basis of proportionality, subsidiarity and focus. The TIB can request the information it needs. The TIB then comes to a judgment: it is lawful or unlawful. If it is unlawful, then it cannot be implemented. It's that simple, actually. Very occasionally, a kind of clauseed consent can be given. This means that conditions are attached to declaring lawful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u43	I was wondering whether the cooperation between supervisors also plays a role within the European Union. Or are there also European countries with which information is not yet shared because of the fear of leaking out to other actors?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u44	Can I come back to that in the second term? I don't have that information quite ready here, but I'd like to get back to you in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u45	I have two more questions about the TIB. One. On the contrary, we are curious to see what kind of requests are assessed as unlawful. What is the content of that? I wonder what kind of picture the TIB gives of that. In general, I understand what she can do, but I want to know if it has been judged that way because there are innocent mistakes in it or because the AIVD has gone too far in his request. What specifically causes them to be assessed as unlawful?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u46	That's different. I'm referring to the TIB itself. It will soon be issuing an annual report. I think it's better to see how the TIB itself reports on that than that I'm going to do here, but there could be several causes for that. In the beginning, it was more about formal errors. I don't think that's what it's called, but there were some carelessness in the applications. Fortunately, this has improved considerably very quickly. Sometimes the interpretation of the law by the TIB can be just different from how the service and also the minister have judged. It varies. Fortunately it doesn't happen very much, but if it does, there are several causes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u47	I'm going to go back to that clauseed consent we were just talking about. We want to know a little bit more about how that works. Are they additional requirements to a request that already complied with the law, or is this a way of making applications that do not actually comply with the law even a little better? I want to know more about what this means, because it's not in the law, but it does. Where is the legal basis and how do we deal with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u48	This is actually a question to the TIB. Of course, it is not the case that the TIB grants conditional consent to requests that would not comply with the law or that are unlawful. However, it may be that the TIB says: "We actually think that we still need more information" or "you have this and do not mention it in the application, but we assume that this can be met." That would be a clauseed consent, but that would and the TIB couldn't do if it didn't comply with the law. Then she can't authorize it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u49	We ask this because we want to prevent the clause consent from being a form to prevent your application from being rejected. The moment you think, "I don't want to go into a bureaucratic process, I don't want to reject it, and I don't want to do it again," we're gonna argue for that. Then we're gonna get you a claused consent. If we are going to get as much information as possible in this way, then we can avoid that form. Maybe that's a risk assessment that goes too far as far as you're concerned, but I want to make sure that we're making that risk assessment together and that we're not all going to give permission in that way later, just to avoid bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u50	I think I can really reassure Mrs van Esch on that point: that is hardly happening. This happens very occasionally. It would never be my bet. After all, I also have to grant permission. But I thought it would be good to mention that in the context of the evaluation committee, too, to be aware of that. Legally, it's actually very simple: it's illegal or it's legitimate. Of course, I and the services strive to make as many legitimate proposals as possible, which the TIB can simply approve.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u51	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u52	Mrs Buitenweg established a relationship between the lower level of threat and the budget for services and supervisors. There's no such relationship. The threat level, of course, only sees one part of it. That's important, but that's about the CT threat. But the threat level isn't linked to the budget anyway. The budget is sufficient in the eyes of the two responsible directors, of the services and also of the supervisors. If that is not the case, they must, of course, report it; so do the services and the supervisors. Then we would put that back on the table with the cabinet. But right now, we're judging it's enough. Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen asked about the unknown vulnerabilities. The starting point of both services for dealing with unknown vulnerabilities is "report, unless." In the interests of national security, therefore, it is possible to opt not to report vulnerabilities temporarily if the services have to use this unknown vulnerability to investigate a threat. The CTIVD oversees this. Both services have reported in their public annual reports on the increasing threat of digital espionage by state actors. In such cases, this could happen. Several members asked about the JenV Ministry's bill for these collaborations with a view to undermining and drug problems. But this bill, which is called data exchange collaborations, I believe, does not create new tasks for the services, nor does it create new powers for the services. So we have a legal framework: the Wiv 2017, which provides a fairly exhaustive regime for what the services can and cannot do in their task and also for the powers and the provision. Any provision of data by the services must remain within that law. So that's organized and there's no provision for that to change.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u53	The framework law doesn't really give anyone new powers, not even for the AIVD. So that's convenient: that's right. That law does provide a legal framework for the exchange of a lot of data between various authorities, both public authorities and private parties, including the Public Prosecutor, the police, the Tax Administration, energy companies and so on. My question to the Minister is: can the AIVD be a partner in this? Can the AIVD also give information to these partnerships?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u54	Only if that's settled within the Wiv. The Wiv is actually a closed supply system. In the Wiv a number of things are provided. For example, the Wiv does not allow for the detection of criminal offences. The Wiv does provide scope for the AIVD to investigate undermining, if at least the democratic rule of law is at stake. There is therefore no other law that extends the possibilities for the AIVD to provide data or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u55	The data collected in this cooperation is not all about criminal offences. After all, a huge number of databases are being created and profiles are being searched for who is potentially suspicious. Now the Minister says: in the Wiv it says whether the AIVD can also contribute information to that. I think it would be useful if I didn't have to look into it to understand that it is, but that I now get insight through the Minister, based on the Wiv, which she undoubtedly knows much better than I do, in the question of whether it is possible for the AIVD, within the current frameworks, to provide information to these partnerships, to enable those partnerships with a database to know who is potentially suspicious. Is that allowed or not, according to the current Wiv?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u56	Well, that's basically what I just said. This means that this can only be done when it comes to structural undermining, in which the democratic rule of law is at stake. I can't really look at it. Perhaps I should come back to that in the second term, or one of the partners in this new law for the data processing of partnerships can play a role in that. However, the opposite cannot be the case, namely that new information can be provided by the AIVD, which the Wiv believes could not be provided by the law proposed by Mr Grapperhaus. So the services are just kept to the Wiv.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u57	I get that. And I'd say thank God the services are kept to the law. My point is that I also tried to indicate in my first term that it is important to see laws in relation to each other. I just did that with the telecoms, and I want to do that now with the data transmission. At least four partnerships are foreseen. We've got Syri. The state has been beaten by the judge, but now there's a new version of that. The idea is to collect as much data as possible and to look through profiles to see who is potentially suspected of undermining crime, abuse social security of all kinds. Then it is important to know who is allowed to provide information. The rule in the grouping is that the grouping may invite its public authority to participate. That's okay. They may make an invitation to the AIVD. My question is: what does the AIVD say? What's legal? Can they give us that information? Then we have the potential to have a lot of information through hacks, informants, interception and I know a lot about what could end up there. I think it is important to know whether it is possible under the current law for the AIVD to provide information to the partnership.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u58	This is the third time you've asked the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u59	Yeah, and I'm saying that's only possible if it fits within the framework of the Wiv, so it's not the law on the partnerships, it's the Wiv itself. The new law doesn't change that. If, on the basis of the Wiv, there would be reason for the AIVD to provide certain information to their party in that case, for example because it would serve national security in case of undermining of the democratic rule of law... I'm just trying to imagine in which cases it is, but it's extremely, extremely limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u60	Yeah, it's extremely limited. But we are also dealing with a Minister of Justice and Security who is stretching ties and who also wants the AIVD to be involved in drug policy. Then this Minister says: I really don't have much of a appetite for that. But it's my job to agree laws and legal frameworks here. I note that it is legally possible and that it is also legally possible for the AIVD to provide information here. I think that's a long way to go. I'm looking for legal, legal barriers to prevent incredibly much information from being collected about all of us at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u61	Yes. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u62	I totally agree with Mrs Buitenweg. And that's what this law is about, of course. I have just said that the Wiv does not allow for, for example, a role for the services in the detection of criminal offences. You can't do that under the law. Well, that's not gonna happen either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u63	The Minister's reply very often contains the phrase'may'. In principle it is therefore possible, provided that it is within the law. Yeah, I get all that. Could be? A lot of things could happen. As long as it's within the law? Everything has to be within the law. The Minister of Justice is a lot more frank, I'll say. He just says: the AIVD is going to play a role in that. My question is very simple: is the AIVD, in the active sense of "doing," going to play a role in this new cooperation structure?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u64	No other way than that the Wiv would allow the AIVD if there were any undermining of the democratic rule of law. It may then be necessary for the AIVD to cooperate with other parties and also provide information. It happens all the time. But it is not the case that the new law creates a new competence for the AIVD. You can't do that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u65	No, but no one says that. No one's claiming that. That's a straw doll. I have a very simple question: is the AIVD playing a role in this? The Minister for Security and Justice is just being frank and honest about that. I find it strange that we should hear it from that minister, who is not about the services, and that this minister is vague about it and seems to deny it a little. It may well be that the Minister of Justice has spoken out or was a little too enthusiastic, but I would like to hear that from this Minister, who is talking about the AIVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u66	I don't think I can be more clasp-and-ready than I've just been. There are certain powers that are needed to play a role in the detection of offences that the services do not have, and therefore they will not be able to play that role either. On the other hand, they have an important role to play in detecting structural undermining of our democratic rule of law. That will be the role of the services.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u67	However, it remains unclear for our party too, especially in the other direction. These partnerships will soon receive a great deal of information. They're getting a huge database. This law ensures that the AIVD can also have that information at its disposal. We mainly care about this flow, and not necessarily just about the flow from the AIVD towards the partnerships. In my opinion, the effect of this law will be that there could be a flow of information and databases from the partnerships towards the AIVD. I wonder how you look at that effect. What could that mean? This new law could indeed have that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u68	That is indeed the reverse movement. This is the same as what I just said about the CBS's location data. I cannot see why the services have an interest in making available the information that is apparently available in these partnerships, because that is about undermining, drug trafficking and that sort of thing. That is not what the services are doing. So I do not think there is such a risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u69	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u70	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Dan Burum. Mrs Buitenweg asked for that. Does that fall under the Wiv? Is that part of parliamentary supervision? I find that difficult. In fact, I cannot make any statement in this debate about the precise implementation of this international cooperation, also because of the need for confidentiality. The Court will, of course, be informed more about progress, but by the appropriate means. That is what the Minister of Defence and I have already informed the Chamber in response to parliamentary questions. But the Wiv and the guarantees from the Wiv are of course without prejudice to this cooperation. This also applies to the monitoring of the CTIVD. Mr President, I think I have answered Members' questions by now. Then I come to the amendments. I do not think I have them quite in the right order, but in the order of the speakers. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 8. That is Mrs Buitenweg's amendment. This is a subject that we have also talked about a great deal, namely a ministerial consent to obtain large amounts of information from informants. I have just argued in my answer how that works. The voluntary nature on the part of the informants, the provision and the way in which can be very different, but if there is information at the AIVD that in the opinion of the person who is offered it contains relevant information, then it is now so arranged that the AIVD can decide for itself. That is also a very practical way of working. For the service it is also the most workable. However, I have just said that I would not find it strange that the evaluation committee should look again in particular at the broader bulk data theme that can be obtained in different ways, including indeed via an informant. But I am not in favour of amending this law now. However, I am in favour of putting it on the agenda for the evaluation. Then there is the response to Amendment No. 9. That is also an amendment by Mrs Buitenweg. This is seen on a TIB test on the provision of unevaluated data to foreign services. The TIB is charged under the law with a legality test of permissions granted by the Minister if special powers are established. For the provision of data acquired under the special powers, the CTIVD has the legality control, including in the case of unevaluated data. And if unevaluated data are provided, then in all cases the Minister's consent is required. So the bill increases the effectiveness of supervision. Provision shall be made for reporting to the CTIVD in all cases where the provision of unevaluated data is involved. And the granting of a power to the TIB does not really fit in with the task entrusted to the TIB as it currently stands in the law. I am therefore not in favour of such an extension of the TIB's role, as provided for in the amendment, because the CTIVD now has competence. If we create a role for the TIB in that, what should the role of the CTIVD become in that? So in my view, that's well organized. If you want to do it differently, you might actually get conflicting judgements and operational uncertainty. But it is true that the evaluation committee will look at the whole establishment, the function and the place of the TIB in the system, also against the background of the issue of ministerial responsibility. So if the report of the evaluation committee gives rise to that, then we could come back to this. But I advise against this amendment for now. Finally, I come to the last amendment tabled, namely No. 7, by Mr Van Raak. He proposed, through this amendment, that the possibility of providing unevaluated data to foreign services should be completely deleted. I do not think Mr Van Raak will be surprised that I do not think that is a good idea. My first period actually began with an interruption debate on the importance of exchanging data, including unevaluated data, in order to get a picture that is good enough of any unknown threats. Cooperation is then really needed in order to achieve a result. So, Mr President, I would therefore advise against Mr Van Raak's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u71	I have missed the answers to a number of questions. They are mainly about sharing information with abroad. I know that the first block was about that, but I thought: the answers to my questions will probably come back to the 'other' block. But that didn't happen. This was mainly about the difference between data and personal data. Article 89 deals with the exchange of information with foreign services. In Article 3 and in Article 70, it becomes almost too complicated, it is actually very specific that it concerns only personal data whose guarantees have been drawn up. Is it true that nothing is kept when it is not about personal data? I miss that part, and I think it's a relevant part. Because we shouldn't want us to keep nothing on non-personal data, should we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u72	Does Mrs Van Esch agree with me coming back to that in the second term? I also have two questions from Mrs Buitenweg which I will return to in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u73	That's the case. Thank you. We have arrived at the second term of office. Is there a need for a second term among members? I can see that this is not the case for everyone. I call Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u74	Thank you, Madam President. It is above all that a number of questions have not yet been fully answered. I do not have any motions because I have two amendments. However, I would like to make a few points. Firstly, the Minister said that she would come back to the protection of journalists and human rights defenders. They left the table after that. I think that is important, because it is about getting a bit of an idea of the following. It's about unevaluated data going abroad. What happens to that? In any case, I want to understand even better what is being tested to know whether it is a problem or not to transfer these bulk data. The Minister also says that this information is not shared with third parties. Then I wonder how the Minister knows that. How does that work? We're gonna pull that back? But that data is already in analysis again, isn't it? I really want a much clearer answer to this. Then about Burum. I consider the question of whether a treaty should be concluded between the Netherlands and the country in question to be important. Our intelligence base is from the Netherlands. I find that very regrettable, but I think this can also be problematic. In any case, I would like to understand what this treaty is like. So I want to know if there's a treaty for this. Or is there, at some point, something like 'there is a country that wants to remain secret; there it is for us very crucial intelligence station'? Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for all the information and for the fact that the evaluation will look at how there can still be some ministerial monitoring of the bulk data. I can really follow the Minister's lead that the AIVD wouldn't do a lot of business or have no interest in it at the moment. But I think it's important that it's legally closed when we make laws. I want safeguards for that. Hence my amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u75	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u76	I believe that everyone here in the Chamber wants to prevent NSA-like situations in the Netherlands. I was hoping that during this debate I could be reassured by the Minister when it comes to data from Dutch citizens whose secret services do not know what it says, whereas those data are shared with abroad. I thought, "Well, it can only be done on very exceptional occasions to prevent an attack anywhere in the world." But now the Minister says: no, that also happens because foreign intelligence services help us analyse that data. So the NSA is going to help the AIVD analyze the data of Dutch citizens, whose AIVD doesn't know what it says. This seems to me to be extremely dangerous and totally contrary to the Dutch people's no in the referendum on the drag law. It's a bit of a weird debate anyway. It is a debate on the basis of a 'no' of the population. If a population says no, you would think: that is no; then a law is off the table. But the government said we're going through with it. And two years later, we're working on a law. That has to do with the fact that it was an advisory referendum. Fortunately, we can spare ourselves some difficult debates in the future, because there is now, of course, a beautiful legislative proposal for a binding referendum, a corrective referendum, which we hope to discuss soon after the summer recess. Then Mr Verhoeven and I can together triumphantly celebrate our joint victory through this Chamber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u77	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a few short points to make. I thought there was a lot of talk in this debate about 'we'll look at that evaluation'. We find it really bizarre that bulk information can be provided from informants, and that we do not get the same guarantees as we do here with other information. And that we should wait for an evaluation is, as far as we are concerned, really not right. It is good that GroenLinks has tabled an amendment to that effect, because it seems to us very appropriate to restore that point in the law that is now before us. And also something about sharing information. For example, the Minister states that the AIVD would have no interest at all in certain information, such as those partnerships or the collection of the CBR. But it's still possible, and that's it. Maybe they don't have an interest in it right now, but with the idea that it's still possible and we don't agree that that kind of information isn't shared, you're stuck with the fact that that possibility does exist. As far as we're concerned, that's really not where we should be going. Soon, then. We are curious about those weighting notes, and how regularly they are updated. I have already mentioned this in my first term, but I have just heard a little too little about it. Do we update regularly, do we also look at differences in how countries develop, how governments can change, and do we look at those weighting notes again? I have one motion, and that motion is actually more up-to-date, because you just indicated in second term to come back to that specific information from us. But since it is so important, I would like to submit it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the exchange of data with foreign services, intelligence services are required to make a note only in the case of personal data;]] [[noting that this is a lack of insight into which data is shared and with which services;]] [[calls on the Government to always make a note of the exchange of data with foreign services,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Esch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35242-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u79	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u80	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. I now give the floor to Mr Verhoeven, on behalf of D66. You really don't have a motion or an amendment? But you do have something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u81	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. Thank you also to the Minister for the clear answer. And of course I am glad that she is back; that goes without saying, but I had not said so. I just had three conclusions. I'd like to end up with two little observations. The first observation is that today, after more than three years, we complete the legal process of the Intelligence and Security Services Act in this house. I think I would like to summarize it if there is a lot of improvement, but we need to be on a permanent alert. We in the Chamber, together with the supervisors and the test organisations, must continue to pay close attention, in particular, to the follow-up, compliance and implementation by the services of our law, so that this goes well. That always turns out to be difficult, and so we should keep a close eye on this in the regular debates and discussions in the House of Representatives. The second point is that I was not happy with the return to plenary. Everything was brought in, there was all sorts of arguments, caricature frames, and little about the content of the law. And I had actually imagined more of that, because, of course, with such a referendum and all the discussion of people who were very concerned, you have to address in a substantive way what has changed and how, as a parliament, you try to do justice to a ruling by the people. It is precisely the parties that put a great deal of emphasis on this and who shouted most loudly during the referendum and after that that referendum has done the least justice. I hope that we can do better in the future. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u82	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. I'm not surprised you're back here. Then I look at Mr Baudet. Need a second term or not? No? Okay, thank you. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. A brief suspension of about ten minutes? That's fine, then I'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u83	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Apologies, a few questions are indeed, by accident, remain, also Mrs Buitenweg's last question, which she reminded me of. So I'll answer those questions and then I'll respond to one more motion. Mrs Buitenweg and I had just had a little debate by interrupting about this law on cooperation and the relationship with the AIVD. I would like to clarify a little bit more about that. I was actually saying that the Wiv exhaustively regulates the possibilities for data to be provided. If there is a grouping and the AIVD has information relevant to that grouping as a result of its mission, it may be provided. There is no obligation. It doesn't change either. It is entirely regulated through the Wiv, not through the law on the partnerships. In such specific, concrete cases, it might be possible, for example in the form of a post of office, but then it is really about very concrete cases. Once again, there is no change in practice and in the role of the services by the partnerships organised by the other law. Mrs Buitenweg also asked whether we were not working with certain European partners. I didn't want to answer that question just now, because I had to have a little talk about what we can or can't say in public about this. I am glad that I have not answered them, because I cannot publicly comment on specific services with which I cooperate. I wanted to give that to Mrs Buitenweg. But I do underline that it always happens on the basis of a weighting note. So it's always drawn up. It keeps the finger on the wrist, including with regard to developments in those countries. I thought Mrs. Van Esch was also early on to those weighting notes. How often do they get updated? The update of the weighting notes is done regularly, which is once every two years, or if there is reason to do so. So if there is a topicality leading to a review, the weighting note can also be adjusted. Then there is Mrs Buitenweg's question about lawyers, journalists and human rights activists. It is a long answer, but the bottom line is that the guarantees under the law apply if you know in advance that these are journalists and lawyers. Human rights activists are not appointed as such, in the same way as journalists and lawyers, but human rights are, of course, appointed in the weighting notes. The law applies. There must be a reason to provide this. The guarantees are, of course, specific. If it's unevaluated, this means that I can't rule out in advance that somewhere in that unevaluated data could be this kind of information. I can't rule that out in advance. By applying the law, we can provide as much guarantees as possible in advance. Think, for example, of how countries deal with human rights, i.e. in the host country, on the basis of weighting notes. That's very important. Are human rights respected? Is the situation comparable to that in the Netherlands? How has cooperation gone in the past with the country in question? Is a country sticking to the deal? The weighting notes are updated, so they are looked at very carefully. This is also important for the work of the services. The CTIVD also investigated the provision of such data. It also considered that the process could be improved, but that the benefits in kind as such were all necessary, including for national and international security. The recommendations of the CTIVD have, of course, also been taken up on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u85	Mrs Buitenweg, short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u86	I do not know whether the Minister is moving seamlessly towards the provision to third parties, but that is relevant in this case. It is one thing that all these data, with the fragile data that may be present, are handled properly by one party. But how is it guaranteed that the party will not hand it over to another country?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u87	That is what I said in my first term. Then the third party rule applies. The deal is: if it is provided, that other country cannot return it to a third party. That's part of the deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u88	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u89	I would like to emphasise once again the following. I just did it, too. In the first period, following that law on cooperation and other examples, such as telecommunications data, a few have given rise to the suggestion and, of course, there are people who follow this debate that the services collect data from Dutch citizens on a large scale and then deal with it very generously. The opposite is the case. First of all, there is not at all a large-scale examination of Dutch data. Secondly, the provision of data, if it is already collected, will only be done if it is necessary for the protection of national security. So it is by no means obvious to provide massive data. Dan Burum. Mrs Buitenweg came back to it, but I have to refer her to the appropriate channels, as I did in my first term. In fact, Mrs Van Esch's question includes her motion. She knows that there is a legal obligation to keep a record of the provision of personal data. Of course, it is there to ensure that it is verifiable that the services handle privacy carefully. Personal data, of course, do not necessarily relate to the name of a person. Personal data can be much wider than that. It could be about information about someone. When providing data that are not personal data, there is no obligation to keep a record. If they are personal data, there is that obligation. There is an exception for the provision of unevaluated data. They'll keep a record of it anyway, which means it'll just be registered. A request must also be made to the Minister, which is kept up to date. To provide data that are not personal data, it is often not necessary to keep specific notes, because then you should really keep a record of everything, including the annual report or a shared analysis of certain trends or developments on certain themes, such as terrorism. So there really is no violation of privacy and I therefore advise against Mrs Van Esch's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u90	What would be against doing it? It may not be specific about personal data, but it is about other data that we have no idea about right now, because there is no need to make a note of it. So we have no idea what data we share with foreign services. I want to know why we can't do that after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u91	Well, because my thesis is that we have a proper closing system for that, namely keeping those personal data records. So that's wider than just who it's about. Furthermore, we keep a note of the unevaluated data. By means, for example, of what you read in the annual reports and through the themes and publications that are published, there is, for the rest, a good overview of the work of the services.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u92	Finally, Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u93	Then I'll just keep my motion on, because we do think it's important to know what information we share. This concerns all the information we share with foreign services, not only personal data, but also other data we share.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u94	At the request of Mrs Van Esch, I propose her motion (35242, No. 10), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u95	I actually wanted to respond to Mr Verhoeven's call for a substantive debate. So I thought I'd go back to the Minister's arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u96	It worked out, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u97	This is in response to one of the amendments I tabled on the role of the TIB, which the Minister said would involve conflicting supervisory tasks. I think that's also the case in other places in the Wiv. For example, when using special powers, you need permission from the Minister and it is reported to the CTIVD, in which the TIB plays a role. So why is there no problem of conflicting tasks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u98	Well, that depends, of course. Sometimes there is a task that the TIB has in advance and which the CTIVD subsequently supervises. That is not conflicting, as far as I am concerned, but it is a question of whether it is logical to give the TIB a task that the CTIVD already has. Makes less sense to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u99	Unless you apply the same kind of regime as in the other case. Then both supervisors play their own role.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u100	If we had wanted to organise things differently in the law, it would have been a choice at the time. It's always there when you change the law. Only, my point is that it is currently well secured by the role of the CTIVD. So I do not see what Mrs Buitenweg's role for the TIB would add to that. In fact, it might even undermine the role of the CTIVD. So in the logic of the law as it stands, I don't think that's an improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u101	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u102	Will that be included in the evaluation? Because here a different role is given to the CTIVD than the one she has in other places. Of course, that is also a bit crazy, while the TIB who has that particular role does not get that part. One supervisor then has two different ways of playing a role. That can also be confusing. And the other supervisor doesn't have a role in this, which I think is necessary here. So maybe this can be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u103	I think that what Mrs Buitenweg is now suggesting, namely that the evaluation committee could also look at this, is not in itself a crazy idea at all. The evaluation committee is, of course, also following this debate. It's open to the evaluation committee. Moreover, the supervisory authorities themselves will also make their proposals to the evaluation committee, so this will end up with the evaluation committee on the left or right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u104	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the discussion of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u105	We will vote on the bill and the amendments next Tuesday. I thank the Minister. I thank the Members of Parliament.
