ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u1	I note that all speakers on the list of speakers and the Minister are present. I would, of course, like to welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science. The subject to be discussed here is the VAO on the application of the Fair Practice Code. Five speakers have been notified. Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks is the first speaker on the list before me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have had a spicy debate, which also lives enormously in the cultural sector, given all the reactions I have received, and I do not think only I have. We haven't figured it out yet. That is why I will table a motion together with Mr Asscher and my name is also under Mr Kwint's motion. I have one motion of my own, and I shall read it to you now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 30% of the workers in the country are not employed, and that this percentage is 60% in the cultural and creative sectors;]] [[Whereas this high percentage of flex makes the cultural and creative sector different from many other sectors and cannot be changed;]] [[Whereas it is positive that the cabinet is trying to strike a better balance on the labour market between wage-earners and flexicurities;]] [[calls on the Minister of Education and Science, together with the Minister of Education and Science, to take into account the specific nature of the cultural and creative sector and to involve the sector in the formulation of labour market policies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32820-341]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u3	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u4	Thank you very much, Mrs Ellemeet. I call Mr Kwint of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u5	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Ellemeet called it a solid debate, but I found it rather frustrating myself. Something quite unique has happened in the cultural sector recently. The people working there, together with employers and the self-employed, have joined forces to improve the position of creators in the cultural sector. This is urgently needed, because a large proportion of these people earn at or below the level of assistance. A wide code has emerged from that. The Ministry embraces that code, but if a fair contribution has to be made in accordance with the name Fair Practice Code, then the Ministry does not give at home. That could lead to some serious problems. Since we are here to solve problems, I make the following proposal. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a large majority in the sector and the Chamber in favour of strengthening the labour market position of cultural creators;]] [[noting that it is not sufficient to place its implementation on the plate of the sector, arguing that it needs to grow up;]] [[noting that implementation without additional resources will lead to the disappearance of many groups and many hundreds of performances, as calculated by Arts '92;]] [[calls on the Government to present an implementation plan for the Fair Practice Code to the Spring Paper, including a financial underpinning that does more justice to the precarious position of creators and institutions in the cultural sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kwint, Mr Ellemeet and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32820-342]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u6	Thank you, Mr President. We, too, have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Review of the Law and Policy Rule on MBO concluded that self-regulation in MBO institutions appears to have recently started and that, in addition to the care obligation, labour market perspective institutions also have other aspects to consider when determining the training offer;]] [[noting that part of the Fair Practice Code is that volunteer or traineeship placements require a clear job definition to prevent trainees from being employed as full-time workers;]] [[Considers that the use of trainees as full labour force and their structural use is contrary to the spirit of the Fair Practice Code, which calls for a healthy labour market in the cultural and creative sectors;]] [[Calls on the Government to identify the relationship between the placement and labour market opportunities in cultural and creative MBO training and to inform the Court of Justice of this before 1 January 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member El Yassini. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32820-343]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u7	Mr El Yassini takes an interesting point about interns and says: it is not so arranged now that it is in the spirit of the Fair Practice Code. Now Mr Kwint has tabled a motion on my behalf to translate that very spirit of the Fair Practice Code into concrete policy. Can we therefore count on the support of Mr El Yassini?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u8	In any case, I am curious to see how the Minister looks at the motion. I'll take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u9	Thank you. I call Mrs Belhaj of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u10	Mr. Chairman. D66 is very committed to the cultural sector. That is also why this cabinet with this D66 minister, after years of austerity under the previous Rutte Cabinets, has finally invested heavily in the cultural sector: EUR 80 million in structural terms and EUR 350 million once. I can't repeat it often enough. Is that enough? Never. Can you always get a little more? Always. Mr. Chairman. The political phase in which we are sitting merely determines that we are not now going to table motions in favour of the indicated 20 million that would be needed for fair practice. This always happens during preparations in the spring retreat by the cabinet. In the end, we can see at Prinsjesdag whether this discussion has produced something, among other things. That is why I am glad that we had that conversation so that we could discuss what is needed for the sector. D66 will continue to work for this, in this cabinet and in the next cabinet, whether it is in the opposition or in the coalition. I used to learn that if something doesn't work out or possibly doesn't work out, you always have to look for possibilities and try again and again. That is what I will continue to do, because D66 has a very warm heart for the cultural sector. Mr. Chairman. Following the debate, I have a motion entitled "Initiation Bill collective bargaining and monitoring labour market position cultural and creative sectors'. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the labour market agenda of the cultural and creative sectors, as well as the introduction of relevant laws and regulations such as the SAB, should significantly improve the labour market position of workers in the cultural sector;]] [[calls on the Government to present a legislative proposal for collective bargaining in the cultural and creative sectors by 2020 and to report to the Court on developments in labour market positions in this sector, focusing on improving the position of workers in the cultural and creative sectors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Belhaj, Mr Ellemeet and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32820-344]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u11	Mrs Belhaj makes a very important point here. I have tabled a motion with Mr Asscher earlier to get collective bargaining on the agenda. That is what the Minister has taken up with great determination. Now Mrs Belhaj really wants to continue the process announced by the Minister in the debate. I would like it if I were to speak on behalf of both of us, because I see Mr Asscher nodding too, as we have done so ourselves before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u12	That's always negotiable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u13	I think this is the time. I would have been very pleased if we had been informed about this earlier, because Mr Asscher and I really did do so. I think we should now decide whether we can be co-signators of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u14	It's okay. I think it's a nice plea. I haven't seen the motions of GroenLinks or the SP in advance either, so I haven't had the chance... Let's agree we'll do that from now on. But I think it's fine. D66 can only embrace it if there are more people in favour of these collective negotiations. Mrs Ellemeet is right that GroenLinks and the PvdA have been very hard on this in the years before. So I fully understand her request.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u15	In order to avoid any ambiguity, I would like to emphasise that Mr Asscher is from the PvdA and not from the SP. I have another question. Mrs Belhaj says in her fine speech: I have learned that at the moment when something doesn't work right away, you have to try again and try again. I welcome that very much. Does it also say that all the proposals that are now being made to improve something can't count on the support of D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u16	Mr Kwint understood that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u17	Then it is strange that you say during the debate that it is not going to work this time, but that it will be a next time. If it is simply unnegotiable in the coalition, that is what it is and we will have to make peace with it somehow, or not. But even if we are not at peace with it, it does not matter to us very much, because then there is no majority for it. Every time we go back to that fight, doesn't it mean that you're gonna have to deal with it at the moment when decisions are being taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u18	I understand Mr Kwint's question, but two things are mixed up. One is that I think that when it comes to the culture sector and it doesn't work out right away, you should keep fighting, whatever the subject. You have to keep fighting in any way, whether this is in the hall or in the corridors or through written questions. We have infinitely many ways to do that. In our case, that happens within a coalition. That's one. Two is that of course I don't know what comes out of the spring retreat. I understand that many people in the sector need to have that answer now. That is why I said that I can already state that I will not support such motions, to my regret.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u19	Thank you, Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u21	Finally, Mr Asscher of the Labour Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u22	Mr. Chairman. In the cultural sector, a good idea is now in danger of being implemented in such a way that it gets bad results. The proper payment of the creators must not lead to prices rising, people being fired and institutions closing down. That is why this is the time to give direction to the Minister in order to prevent this from happening. I have a motion for that. I would like to invite Mrs Belhaj to sign it, if necessary as the first or only signatory. Because this is exactly the time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that cultural creators should be able to secure a decent reward for their work;]] [[noting that this is not the case at the moment and that makers are very difficult to make ends meet;]] [[calls on the government to work with the sector to examine what is necessary to apply the Fair Practice Code throughout the cultural sector, not to rely on a constant budget from the Empire, and to inform the Chamber about this before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32820-345]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u23	I can tell by her face that Mrs Belhaj's name is not yet underneath it, but I'm sure she'll let you know soon if it's going to be underneath it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u24	We can now move on to the Minister's response. I understand that she is able to do so immediately. I now give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u25	Thank you, Mr President. We had a good and strong debate last week. There are still five motions left. I will make a brief assessment of this. First of all, Mrs Ellemeet's motion on item No. 341. It invites me, together with Mr Koolmees, to take due account of the specific characteristics of the cultural sector in the labour market adjustments. That's a motion I'm giving you, Chamber. I think it is important, Mr Koolmees, and I have included this together so far, that we continue to look together at the consequences for the cultural sector. I also think it would be a good idea to continue talking about this with the platform from the sector itself, because we must continue to work together on this. The motion in part No. 341 gets judgment, then, Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 342 by Mr Kwint. Unfortunately, he can't get the same judgment. I'm gonna dissuade them. Two points on this. You are expecting him, I think, to submit a request to the Spring Note. You know how it works, too. We talk first in the cabinet about the Spring Note, then we send it to the Chamber, and then we have a debate about it. Within the cabinet we first make an integral consideration of that note. I also indicated in the debate that we are simply implementing the Fair Practice Code step by step within the possibilities that exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u26	There is a question from Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u27	Well, a suggestion. If I should not anticipate the outcome of the Spring Note, I could make it: "calls on the government, when preparing the Spring Note, to work on exploring an implementation plan."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u28	Nice try, I'd say, but of course your intention is just the same. You're asking me, please, after that Spring note, make sure you get extra money on the table. Again, whether you ask me in preparation or in those conversations, we'll talk about that in the Cabinet. That is a question of complete consideration. You will see the outcome of this when the Spring Note is presented here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u29	My intentions are generally crystal clear, but ultimately we do not vote on my intentions; we vote on the text of a motion. So unless the Minister has a textual objection to this motion, she cannot dismiss it with: yes, but we know secretly what you mean. That is not so secretly; I have said what I want five times in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u30	Also what we exchanged in the AO and what we exchanged here is part of this. That can't be a surprise for you. You link here an implementation plan for the entire Fair Practice Code to the finances of the Spring Note, while I explained to you that it doesn't work like that around the Spring Note. Finally, we have always indicated that we are going to apply the Fair Practice Code step by step. Indeed, part of it is about the state-subsidised institutions, but part of it is also about the institutions subsidised by municipalities and provinces. That's not up to me. Nor can I present you with an implementation plan for this. And a large part of the cultural sector is not subsidised at all, so I have no control over that at all. So you're asking too much here. You can now try to catch me by words. But I think my judgment is clear. We have also exchanged this in the debate, and I will stick with that. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the motion on part No. 343 by Mr El Yassini. He asks for a map of the cultural and creative courses in the MBO. What are the chances of an internship? What are the chances on the labour market? For the labour market, we have a clear picture of this, also in view of what we are doing in the context of the macro-efficiency operation. I would also like to see how that relates to the internships. So this motion gets judgment, Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 344 by Mrs Belhaj. As Mrs Ellemeet rightly said, this item has been on the agenda before. It has been said more widely in the Chamber that I must ensure that the negotiating position ofzzp'ers in the wider cultural sector is improved. The new guidelines of the ACM offer the possibilities for this, but there are a number of conditions. I am not convinced in advance that it will be enough to improve those positions. I have indicated that I am preparing this legislation. Moreover, I do so in close consultation with SZW's colleague. I do like the fact that I am once again being urged by the Chamber to take care of this. I feel very supportive of that. The motion in part No. 344 gets judgment, Chamber. (NL) Mr President, finally, the motion for a resolution on item No. 345 on the introduction of a Fair Practice Code throughout the cultural sector. I advise against it for a number of reasons. Once again, we have done this neatly for that part of the cultural sector for which I have the national responsibility and which concerns the financial resources of the Empire. Municipalities and provinces do their own research on what this means. That's their responsibility. In addition, most of the sector is not subsidised. There, others bear the responsibility. I'm sticking to the investigation I did. You also ask me not to rely on a constant budget from the Empire. I have to operate here within the frameworks I have now. For that reason, too, I can only advise against this motion. Those were my judgments, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u31	I consider the first argument to be an understandable profit warning. You can't just do this on behalf of others. It's not supposed to be like that. The question is to look with the sector at what is needed for the whole sector. If municipalities and provinces do that themselves, you can put it together. You'll get a broader picture. I'm not just asking. The Minister himself has always referred in previous debates to what municipalities and provinces do at their level. You want that Fair Practice Code all over the sector. As far as I am concerned, the Minister can explain it as an effort to do it with the other gremia. I know a number of municipalities are already doing this, and you'll get that picture. I think that's a more real picture. And then the second. I understand that the Minister cannot make any promises now, but I think the previous interpretation is the opposite. That is to say that there is no room for a penny. That's weird. The request of this motion is to discuss with the sector. Think what it would take to do it as a whole. I would therefore ask the Minister to reconsider her assessment, because I think that might help her in the further discussion. Before the Spring Paper is in place and after the framework has been established, it is exactly the right time to have that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u32	If that's the reasoning... In the research I have done, we have mapped out what this means for the introduction of the state-funded sector. I know, but right now, I have the frameworks I have. If it is subsidised by the province or the municipalities, I do not have to look at the budget of the Empire, because then it is about the budgets of municipalities and provinces. For the non-subsidised sector, it is certainly not about the budgets of the Empire. In fact, you ask: see what you can do in the implementation of the research that lies ahead, because that has a relationship with the budgets of the Empire, and do not assume an equal budget of the Empire. But what you ask me is: do an imaginary timeline for if you had more money. Once again, I do not feel free at the moment to embrace motions that call for my commitment in the budgetary negotiations. Mr Asscher probably knows that you do that first in the cabinet. Everything that makes me say here doesn't help at all. If you ask me if I want more money for culture, of course that's like asking a kid if he wants something else out of the candy closet. But you also know what processes I'm bound by. I explained very clearly in the debate that my intention is to work step by step within the possibilities I have for the fair practice. But talking about the budgetary frameworks in the department of OCW, I do first with the Minister of Finance and then in the cabinet. This spring you will see the result.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u33	I think that comparison is completely inappropriate. This is really the liberal newspeak way: "a child with sweets." No, it's about people who do good work and who have to be paid properly and about institutions that don't have that money. The responsibility of this minister is to resolve that. Not a candy and a child; bullshit. It's just about what's fair in the direction of that sector. The idea of the motion is: you talk to the sector and to the municipalities and the provinces. You make appointments and you figure out how to fix it. That means that the Empire is doing something, that means that the municipalities and the provinces are doing something, and that means that the sector, especially the big institutions, is showing what they can do extra, and you solve it. That's what this is all about. It's not about the candy crap. This is about what people are entitled to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u34	Mr. Asscher, you're really laying something on me... I didn't make any comparison in the sense that if the sector wants a Fair Practice Code, it's like he wants a candy. I said: if you ask the Minister of Culture if he wants more money for culture, then that's a little... I took it out on myself. So don't take my words out of context. Again, as you are now explaining, please ask me to put on the table scenarios based on a larger cultural budget in the Empire. You must also understand that I cannot do that at the moment. We've done an investigation into what this means for the state-funded sector. We have also shown what is possible within the existing frameworks, but you cannot ask me to embrace a motion now asking me to extend my own frameworks. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u35	I don't think that's what's being asked either. What is being asked also indicates the sector itself: the sector needs a comprehensive overview. We now know what part of the cost of fair practice is. It is important that step one is taken that we have as much overview as possible of what these costs mean, both from the Empire as from the provinces and from the municipalities. Of course, I understand the Minister's desire for more money and that she cannot promise it now, but it will help the Minister and the Chamber if we have that overview. We need to see how far we can get this year. If we really want to apply that fair practice, we want to do so, then step one is an overview of the total cost. We've narrowed that down now. That is what this motion is asking for. In my view, therefore, the Minister does not have to worry so much and this is a support to have that overview and, as far as possible, to be able to take the next steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u36	No, again, the motion is definitely about the budgets of the Empire. This means that it is about: what is state subsidy? We have that insight, and I've given it to you. Municipalities and provinces are now looking at the same thing. That, if they want to apply it, then has implications for their budgets for the institutions there, not for the national budget. Then we have a very large part of the cultural sector that is not subsidised at all and where one can do it oneself. Arts '92 has provided insight into that. In my view, therefore, we do not need to do all this again, and all that is being tried here is to establish a link to an understanding of extending the frameworks of the national budget. You know as well as I do that I can't embrace that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u37	Then we have come to the end of the debate. I thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-29.u38	The motions will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
