ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the VAO JHA Council on 12-13 March 2020, part of the policy on asylum and immigration. I welcome the Secretary of State for Justice and Security and I give the floor to Mr Emiel van Dijk on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Turks have opened the borders to the EU. The Greeks are still holding on to keep their borders closed, but at the same time the EU is putting pressure on the Greeks to let asylum seekers and migrants in in particular. Meanwhile, Turkey is threatening to send millions of asylum seekers here if no more ransom is paid. Tomorrow, the Secretary of State will sit at the JHA Council on behalf of the Netherlands to discuss this blackmail of the Turks. The Turks are trying to fund the EU and the Netherlands, because we are the net biggest payer in the EU. The Turks literally say: if more money is not transferred and you do not help us to wage war in Syria, then we will send millions of asylum seekers your way. The VVD Secretary of State and the VVD Group in the House of Representatives want to reward this extortion of the Turks with new talks, with more money and with visa-free travel for 80 million Turks. The PVV wants to prevent hundreds of thousands of migrants from coming to the Netherlands at all costs and therefore proposes that we not depend on the Greeks or the EU, but that we control our national borders again. That is why the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Turkey has millions of migrants, or directs asylum seekers towards Europe;]] [[noting that the European Commission is insisting on opening up borders to the EU and allowing these migrants and asylum seekers to enter Schengen;]] [[calls on the government to introduce national border controls and to stop allowing migrants or asylum seekers to join the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government under no circumstances to agree to the visa-free travel of 80 million Turks to the European Union,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Emiel van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-604]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Emiel van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-605]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Mr. Emiel van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u5	Thank you, Mr President. The general discussion we had yesterday with the Secretary of State was largely about whether the Netherlands would be willing or willing. To take over a proportionate proportion of the most vulnerable refugees who are now arrested, you might say, on the Greek islands. This is an initiative which a number of Member States of the European Union have already said they are prepared to do; not the least countries, such as Germany and France. Of this, a large number of Dutch municipalities have said: if the Netherlands does so, we are prepared to include some of those people in our municipality. But the Secretary of State says: no, I do not; I only do so if all countries in the European Union participate. Well, that's almost the best way to say: I don't have to do anything and I don't want to do anything, and I only do it if there's a structural solution. That's what the Secretary of State says. That structural solution must then, as I said yesterday, appear to be descending from the sky like manna, because the Netherlands is not taking a step towards achieving that structural solution. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a concrete request from the Greek authorities to European countries to resettle single minors, who are particularly vulnerable to exploitation and who live in Greece in sometimes very bad conditions;]] [[noting that several European countries have already agreed to cooperate and that several Dutch municipalities have indicated their willingness to cooperate in the care of children in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to discuss with EU Member States and Dutch municipalities the possibilities for a Dutch contribution to the reception of vulnerable single children from Greece,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Ojik, Kuik, Azarkan and Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-606]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u6	Thank you, Mr President. It is painful and dramatic what is happening at the border between Turkey and Greece. We know, of course, that geopolitical poverty is being squeezed between different countries, Turkey and the EU, and we know that the terrible war in Syria is the source of this refugee crisis, but what we also see is the poignant lack of solidarity of many European countries. What is always left are people, people like us, people of flesh and blood, and especially children who are the worst victims of that geopolitical dirty game. Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands we now have 75 years of peace. We are able to help others, because we have also received help in the past. If the situation were reversed, we'd expect help, too. In the end, what remains is the human measure. We cannot look away while others are dying and particularly vulnerable children suffer a great deal. That is why I wholeheartedly supported Mr Van Ojik's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. I shall now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen. Excuse me, I see he doesn't want to speak. Then I will go to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr. Chairman. When it comes to the distribution of children and the possible inclusion of children from the Greek islands in the Netherlands, the Secretary of State has always said: we are waiting for the European Commission's proposal. That proposal is now on the table. The European Commission would like the Member States to participate in the inclusion of the most vulnerable single children. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas thousands of children on the Greek islands are facing a humanitarian disaster;]] [[noting that the Greek Government and the European Commission are working on protection measures for single minor aliens in Greece, including the relocation of 2,500 children across the Member States;]] [[calls on the Government to participate in the European plan to distribute single children from Greece among the Member States,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-607]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I assume that the Secretary of State, who was in a debate, did not hear what the German Minister for European Affairs said here in the Dutch Parliament this morning. He called on the Netherlands, together with Spain and Belgium, to participate in the distribution of these 2,500 children from the Greek islands. It is an urgent appeal to the Netherlands to include at least 30, 40 children. I repeat that call to the Secretary of State. If the Secretary of State does not wish to do so, is she prepared to discuss this with her colleagues in Belgium and Spain in order to see what is possible? At least these kids have to get off the islands first. The circumstances there are so poignant that we should take them from the islands to the mainland as soon as possible. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the humanitarian situation at the Turkish-Greek border and on the Greek islands is extremely poor;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[together with other countries, urge the Greek authorities to transfer the 2,500 vulnerable single children on the Greek islands to the mainland;]] [[promote humane and protected care with possible Dutch support and adopt a constructive attitude in discussions with the European Commission on a structural solution;]] [[work to strengthen Greece's support under the coordination of the European Commission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind, Mr Groothuizen and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-608]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u10	Finally, a question to the Secretary of State. We also discussed it yesterday, but I have not yet received a clear answer. How is it that the Netherlands, that Europe has paid EUR 2.4 billion to Greece and that NGOs still have to provide the aid at the moment and the Greeks are actually just taking care of the food? How could we have achieved this by EUR 2.4 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u11	Mr Voordewind's motion sounds, with all due respect, a bit like a free lunch: help to bring the children of the islands to the mainland. Yeah, okay. The first request made by Mr Voordewind, namely that the government should take part in and participate in the Member States' plan to include children, was actually much more interesting to me. That's exactly my motion. Are you going to support them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u12	I have deliberately repeated the question of the German minister who sounded in this house today. Since I am absolutely not sure about the answer, I added a motion at the same time to be sure. I hope that you will be able to support it and other colleagues will be able to support it. The least we can do for these children is to take them away from Lesbos and the camp Moria as soon as possible and at least let them know: that is also what our motion says to give protected and humane shelter. This is a different kind of shelter from where the children are even being accommodated on the mainland at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u13	Do I hear Mr Voordewind say that bringing to the mainland is a second best solution and that sharing between Member States is the best solution? So I assume you support both motions, both your own motion and mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u14	The best thing is for the children to be taken into account in a very humane situation and for a more structural solution to follow. But I do not see a majority for that here in the Chamber, not even with us. Hence a motion which I hope you will support, which I hope will be able to count on a majority and which will at least alleviate the current poignant situation of these children.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u15	I have a bit of a problem with Mr Voordewind's motion. You could say it's good to transfer children to a situation where they have less to suffer at least. But what if the Greek government says to Mr Voordewind: "Yes, you can do me a favor. You're not gonna do anything yourself, Holland. But you are going to adopt a motion in Parliament that will tell us what to do"? What would Mr Voordewind say to the Greek Government? Now it was the German minister, but what if the Greek minister said this to Mr Voordewind?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u16	It's not true that we're not doing anything. Yesterday, the Secretary of State told us in detail what aid we are sending to Greece. At the same time, 700 million will be released. Yesterday, we jointly advocated that the 700 million should not be given grudges, but that they should be subject to harsh conditions and that it should be said: 'You will receive the second instalment of 350 million, but you will have to take care of the 2,500 children. They must come to the mainland in a protected shelter, in better conditions than they are today."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u17	I don't think we can do both. You cannot stand here like Mr Voordewind and say that you support the German Minister's call. The German minister's appeal was not to send blankets, provide psychosomatic assistance and appoint island coordinators. That was not the German minister's call. The German Minister's appeal was very clear. Germany has said that we are prepared to accommodate some of these children in Germany, not on the Greek mainland, but in Germany. France and a number of other countries have said so. The question now is whether we say the same to the Netherlands. Mr Voordewind will then table a motion to tell the Greeks to transfer children from the islands to the mainland. I think it's a little embarrassing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u18	Mr Van Ojik has been on the sidelines for several years. There's nothing else he can do about that, but of course it's easy to say from the sidelines how the world ideally works, but we have to work with the reality in this house. That means that what we can do for the children must also do. I sincerely hope that Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks will support this motion, because it will really help these children if we can transfer them to the mainland, with the good help. Then we'll have to go back and see what's possible. I agree with Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u19	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. I shall now suspend the sitting for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u20	Mr. Chairman. We had an extensive...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u21	Can I make one small change to my motion before it is sent around?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u22	Sure. What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u23	The second indent states: to advocate humane and protected care. That's where the word "there" has to come in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u24	Then I'll look at the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u25	I made the change. We had an extensive general discussion yesterday on the JHA Council which will take place tomorrow. It's still taking place, despite the corona virus. We had an extensive exchange of views with each other there. One thing was clear: the situation in Greece, on the Greek-Turkish border, is worrying. As far as the motions are concerned, starting with Mr Emiel van Dijk's motion to introduce border controls and not to allow migrants and asylum seekers to join the Netherlands. Unfortunately, I have to discourage that motion, because this is a variant of a more frequent call from the PVV to close the borders. At the moment, that is not real. Mr Emiel van Dijk knows the cabinet's position on this matter. I'm dissuading the motion. As far as Mr Emiel van Dijk's second motion is concerned, under no circumstances will he agree to visa-free travel of 80 million Turks to the European Union. The visa provision is part of the EU-Turkey declaration. But in order for that to come into force, Turkey must meet the benchmarks for visa-free travel. That has not yet been met. The motion also ignores the fact that these demands are there and that they have not yet been met.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u26	Do I hear the Secretary of State say that the Turkey deal is still working? If I have understood all the media correctly, and in particular Mr Erdogan's statements wherever he could, the Turkey deal is off the table. Are we not crazy Henkie when we say: we are still going to meet all kinds of conditions, including visa-free travel, free money to the Turks, while the Turks are opening the border, contrary to what the agreements would have been?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u27	At the moment, there is this EU-Turkey declaration. That's what we're talking about with the Turks. Mr Emiel van Dijk knows as well as I do that President Macron of France and the Bundeskanzler, Mrs Merkel, will speak with Mr Erdogan next week, on 17 March, in Istanbul. The existing EU-Turkey declaration is still being discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u28	Of course, it's deadly naive of the Secretary of State to pretend that that deal is still holding. We've been able to see Erdogan's war language. He makes the Greeks worse than the Nazis at the time, because they keep their borders closed. The Turks are at war in Syria and are setting up a huge gang there. Then they open the border to the European Union and say the deal. The Secretary of State is gonna talk to the Turks and act like nothing's going on. She keeps all kinds of roots in mind, while the stick should have been pushed over. It's unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u29	This secretary of state isn't gonna talk to the Turks any more. That's not up to me. I'm not pretending nothing's going on either. I have expressed the position as it currently stands, namely that the EU-Turkey Declaration is to be maintained. That is what the European Union is working on, and I will leave it at that. President. - The next item is the motion for a resolution (Doc. 606. As Mr Van Ojik knows, relocation is neither part of the Dutch commitment nor part of the policy of this cabinet. The cabinet has said that we want to do a great deal in the humanitarian, legal and practical field to alleviate the needs of Greece, especially those of minors. But one thing doesn't happen. We want to offer a lot of support, but we don't want to relocate. Moreover, the decision on relocation is a matter for the state and not for the municipalities. I must therefore advise against this motion. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 607 to participate in the plan to relocate minors. By the way, I would like to say that it is important... Not only here but also yesterday at the AO and in a broader context there is a constant discussion about minors, but that is not yet clear. The procedures for monitoring the origin of minors have not yet been carried out, so we do not even know yet. We assume they're underage, but we don't know that. We don't know if they're refugees or migrants. We don't know where they came from. All this data is not known. As far as Mr Jasper van Dijk's motion is concerned, I said yesterday in the AO and explained that there is no formal European plan. I have said what the Dutch commitment is. In the logic and spirit of the EU-Turkey Declaration, we want to offer humanitarian, legal and practical support to Greece wherever possible, but we do not intend to take over minors. So I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u30	Let's talk about the status of the kids first. Just so we're clear, this motion doesn't say anything about children. Then your other point. The Secretary of State says there is no formal plan. I believe that there is a very concrete proposal from the European Commission, in cooperation with the Greek Government. This is submitted to the Member States to participate in the distribution of children. Do you insist that there should be a European plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u31	I didn't mention that as a condition. I said that the Netherlands is prepared to do what is humanitarian, legal and practical in the logic of the EU-Turkey declaration. We're willing to do that, and we are. The Netherlands has been at the forefront of the reception of Syrian refugees in 2015 and 2016. We are also at the forefront of resettlement, which is part of the EU-Turkey declaration. We all do, but we're not taking over minors right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u32	Finally, Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u33	The Secretary of State said that there is no formal plan from the European Commission. This means that, if there is, she can accept the proposal. I think there's just a plan and a concrete proposal. I would therefore ask you to reconsider this very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u34	The answer to what Mr Jasper van Dijk says, which it implies, is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u35	Do you have another question, Mr. Van Ojik? Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u36	We are having this debate because the Secretary of State is going to Brussels at the end of the day. I would like to ask her: why is she being so rigid? You can say, "I'm gonna go over there and I'm gonna talk." We know from a number of countries their position on the issue of taking over vulnerable children. Why doesn't the Secretary of State say, "I'm gonna have that conversation. I'm gonna listen to you very carefully. I know what is going on in the Netherlands, in the coalition, in parliament and in society. And when I come back, I'm gonna tell you what came out of it"? Why does she say before she gets into the car or the train to Brussels: there is no talking to me about that? What's the point of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u37	I have just explained this to Mr Jasper van Dijk. I explained it in detail yesterday. The Netherlands has always been at the forefront of the reception of Syrian refugees, resettlement and so on. The Netherlands says: "We want to do everything and look at the totality and logic of the EU-Turkey declaration. In the context of this declaration, we are providing humanitarian aid, legal assistance and practical assistance. But one thing we do not do, and that is to take over refugees, even when it comes to underage children."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u38	Please continue. Mr Voordewind's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u39	Yes, Mr Voordewind's motion on item No. 608. I sympathise with what the motion is about, namely the proper reception of amvs. That's what it's about. That's what we're all talking about. It's about the proper reception of amvs. We still have to look at which ones they are, but that aside. Of course, it is up to the Greeks to determine where they want to accommodate vulnerable groups. In practice, they'll take someone to the mainland once they've been identified as vulnerable. They already did that with 6,500 people by 2020. I therefore assume that this mainland is indeed a fact for Greece. It is important that the amvs are well received. I certainly want to insist on that. As I have said a few times, the Netherlands also wants to make a warm contribution to this, humanitarian, legal and practical, with the people and the goods they are asking for. Then I can also imagine that this shelter will take place on the mainland. If I may explain the motion in this way, I can leave her judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u40	It is true that it is a matter of decent care. We know how that shelter is now arranged. There's gonna be extra money. I would appreciate it if the Secretary of State also used that money as a crowbar to make sure that these children end up in sheltered and humane shelter on the mainland. My second question, which has not yet been answered, was about contact with Belgium and Spain. If the Secretary of State is to join the JHA, is she prepared to discuss with the Belgians and the Spaniards what they are actually doing with Germany's request?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u41	As far as the latter is concerned, these meetings are, of course, there to discuss. So there's always time to talk. That's not a big deal. There will be more countries with which I will consult. That is really the intention of those meetings. Then there is the second tranche of EUR 350 million that the European Union is making available to Greece. I also said yesterday that I certainly want to point out that it is important that some of that money is spent on the care of those vulnerable children that we have just talked about. I must say that I do not want to use the word "crowd iron" in this. That's too much for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u42	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-7.u43	The motions tabled will be put to the vote at the end of the afternoon. I thank the Secretary of State and the Members of Parliament.
