ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u1	I suggest, given that I believe all the spokesmen are here, that we proceed immediately with our next item. That is the Second Collector's Act COVID-19, also with the Minister of Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u3	Mr. Chairman. We're in the middle of uncertain times. Not only in education and care, which I am about to say about, but also here in the Lower House it has been often improvising lately. Many planned debates have not continued, but that did not mean for many of us that there was less hustle and bustle. I know that the ministries have worked very hard to support schools and teachers, to work on support packages and sometimes to make very strong decisions. Mr. Chairman. The deletion of the final test at primary school, the removal of exams, the closure of educational institutions, from primary school to university, all of which, of course, has enormous consequences for pupils, teachers and administrators. But it also has implications for legislation and regulation, as demonstrated by the emergency law we are discussing tonight. We can see that the treatment is necessary, because it is necessary to clarify quickly for schools how, for example, the assessment is carried out by the educational inspection. We fully understand that, with the end of last year's final test, it will be impossible to include the results of the last three years in the inspection frameworks. Because if there is no test, then there are no results either. We also understand that a technical amendment to this law is therefore necessary. At the same time, we have some problems with the fact that emergency measures and non-emergency measures are now being put together in a legislative proposal. This could perhaps have been different in our view, because legislation must of course be done very carefully and we have now had to do all this preparation in a very hectic time. I do not feel very good about this, because legislation takes a lot of time and preparation. I also have a number of clarifying questions for the Minister. Mr. Chairman. First of all, about student compensation. A number of motions have just been tabled. I also have a number of questions about this, because the government's answer indicates that at the moment it is not good to estimate how much delay the study delay is for students from other courses of study, not from the last year. The Minister also states that she has good hopes that many of these students will be able to catch up with the delay. But hope, of course, doesn't give students any certainty. Moreover, I heard from the student organisations, LSVb and ISO, that they estimate that much more students are slowing down. The ISO has also investigated this. They say that 54,000 students are slowing down due to corona. I would like to ask the Minister: how can ISO sort this out and does the Ministry have no data yet? I would like to ask the Minister when she expects to have an estimate of the number of students who lag behind, and what is the situation not only for students in the last year, but also in the other years. I would ask the Minister to consider with the student organisations that she is probably already working on this group and perhaps also on compensation for this group. Mr. Chairman. Moreover, I can imagine that students with disabilities are also being delayed, because these students often incur additional costs. They often incur additional costs for, for example, living, housing and transport. These are students who are sometimes less able than other students to be present, because of their disability or because of chronic fatigue. They are also students who are often less likely to have a side job. I would like to ask the Minister whether this group is well in sight and whether these students can make sufficient use of schemes and municipal income support schemes. I'd like a response from the Minister. The Minister replied that a number of non-EEA countries are also members of the European Higher Education Area and the Bologna process. I would like to ask the Minister what countries they are and whether students from these countries can still be taken with them. Mr. Chairman. I also read in the explanatory statement that this proposal allows institutions to register students who have not been able to complete their training in good time by COOVID-19. Now, in the debate on this subject, we also had a discussion with Minister Slob on secondary special education and students who go for part certificates. There are a number of students, or students, who still need part certificates for higher education. I would like to ask the Minister if she would also look specifically at this group. Mr. Chairman. We are discussing a draft law on emergency measures to deal with the corona crisis. It's very unusual, but I'm also going to say something about care here. We have tabled an amendment to this law to make it possible that the cost of this corona crisis will not lead to a higher care premium, and this was the most convenient time of the week to submit it. Because the outbreak of the corona crisis has led to an enormous increase in spending on hospitals and other healthcare providers. Hospitals expect to incur some 3 billion additional costs in the coming years because of all the corona care. These costs could increase even further if there were a second wave. Our health care system is now designed so that if additional care costs are incurred, this is reported to ordinary people through health care contributions. Especially at a time when there is a lot of uncertainty, where many people have lost their jobs and where there is also a lot of uncertainty about the financial situation, while care costs have increased considerably in recent years, it is really time for GroenLinks to make other choices. As far as we are concerned, therefore, it is not the lower and middle income who pay the bill for the crisis, but larger companies that contribute much more. That is why we are putting forward the proposal to freeze the healthcare premium. This is a political choice. We can make it this week by voting in favour of our proposal. This is a way of preventing the cost of care for people in this country from rising even further. Mr President, let us be more technical. It is a question of the cost of care resulting from the corona crisis being recovered from the so-called catastrophe regime. The disaster scheme includes the possibility for health insurers to receive an additional State contribution to cover the costs arising from the pandemic when they can demonstrate that they have used their reserves to the maximum. So this is really about how we want to distribute the costs of the corona crisis. Who are we asking to contribute money to? We want to prevent people from paying €250 or more in premium. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether she can respond on behalf of the cabinet to this amendment, although I know that this is not her subject. I would also like to ask her whether she can promise that the healthcare premium will not increase, even if there is a second wave. I would also like to receive a response from the Minister on these points. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u4	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Rog on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a collective law that goes beyond just OCW, and I have some questions about a number of other policy areas. For the part for which this minister is responsible, which falls within her portfolio, we thank the cabinet for answering the questions we were able to put earlier in writing. We agree with the temporary change in the law regarding the training of students in movement education and the learning outcomes. We are also satisfied with the answers we have asked about prospective students in higher education. It is good that students are monitored specifically for the impact of the corona policy. The CDA Group welcomes the flexibility of the Minister in higher education, such as the soft cut and the retention of credits. As regards Infrastructure and Water State, we thank the Cabinet for clarifying who is eligible for the exchange period for extending foreign driving licences. This makes it clear that the proposal also concerns a holder of a driving licence from a so-called third country. I have one more question. Is the Cabinet prepared to monitor the effects on road safety of the proposal for holders of a non-Dutch driving licence from outside the European Union? The reply also indicates that in the regular consultations of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State with the RDW, the Public Prosecutor and the police in a more general sense the possible effects on road safety of holders of a non-Dutch driving licence from outside the European Union are discussed. Is the Minister prepared to keep the Chamber informed of the results of these consultations on possible effects on road safety, particularly in those countries where the requirements for driving licences are much lower than in the Netherlands and where there are few busy motorways? As far as Justice and Security are concerned, we have tabled a simple amendment with D66, but that simplicity is also the beauty. We look forward to a positive appreciation of that amendment by the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u6	Thank you very much. I call Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u7	Mr President, thank you. Emergency laws are emergency laws, made as a matter of urgency and therefore can also be dealt with as a matter of urgency by a Chamber. But that is also necessary at this time and that is why it is good that they are there. We are very pleased that the compensation will be provided for those students who are currently being delayed, that the scheme is specifically aimed at supporting students with an additional grant and that it will be arranged in this way. I am not going to say too much about it, because we have said a lot about it in the Jetten/Heerma motion and in the ensuing debate. On the amendment, which is indeed unbeatable in terms of beauty, unity and simplicity, I would like to say where it comes from. We very much welcome the fact that we are going to eliminate the delays in justice, because a delay in justice is a delay in the rule of law. We can indeed use judges who have recently left the box for this purpose. Only if we say that we are not restricting this to just judges who have done so in the last 12 months, but that we are also using judges who have done so in the past 24 months, we are doubling the potential area of judges that we are going to be able to deploy extra. That is what we propose together with the CDA. I can't make it any simpler, Mr. Rog. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u8	Thank you. I call Mrs van den Hul on behalf of the Labour Party. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I start with a confession, namely that I had prepared a very nice speech text, but that my computer is jammed. I've just tried to turn it back in vain, but it didn't work out. So this is a somewhat improvised text that I have to draw from my memory.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u10	We're very curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u11	I'm gonna do my best, Mr. Chairman. But a disclaimer in advance: he was actually even better. It is quite special to be here as spokesperson for Education and at the same time to deal with a collective law that includes elements of IenW, JenV and VWS and all that in a quick cooker. We have already exchanged in committee that this process did not deserve a beauty prize at all. But indeed, it is also part of this time that the corona crisis calls for special measures. I therefore agree with what Mr Paternotte said. But there is one point in the law that I would like to address tonight. The most political point, perhaps, of this law, and that is compensation. We just talked about it. Even if we agree with the rest of the proposals on all these other parts, I would like to give some back-up on this point. We have just tabled a motion with Mr Futselaar on this point. It was dissuaded. That motion actually asked for nothing but extra space and coulance for students who are now outside the scheme, but who are going to be delayed. Students who, for example, have to deal with serious study delays, but are not yet in the last year of study. Students where the delay by corona only manifests itself at a later stage, because of course it can. Or vulnerable students, students with disabilities, students with family care or students with an unsafe or restless home situation. We've asked questions about this before. The Minister then replied that in the case of students who are not yet in the last year of study, she assumed that it should be possible to make up for this delay in the last year or later. For vulnerable MBOs, the Minister refers to the additional money made available to design catch-up and support programmes in order to avoid further study delay as far as possible. For vulnerable students in higher education, the Minister referred to agreements with, among others, the Vereniging Hogeschoolen, the VSNU and the NRTO, to the obligation of care of institutions and to the hand-out of the Student Welfare Working Group, which is working on issues for the upcoming academic year. That is all very well and good, but that still does not remove our concern for the group of students who do not belong to that category, who are now helped by this law. So my simple question is: what is the Minister doing for students who are not covered by the law compensation and are also excluded from the additional resources made available to remedy delays in other educational sectors? What can these students expect from the Minister, now that this law does not compensate them? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u12	Please stand still, because there is a question for you from Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u13	Of course, we have a number of arrangements: extension of scholarships and reimbursement of tuition fees for students graduating next year. Through the Profiling Fund, we also have opportunities for students who, for example, have to provide care because of the current situation, the soft cut, the postponement of the BSA, the extension of the card and the flexibility scheme for students who are not covered by the other existing regulations, for which the PvdA and D66 have also worked together. And we also asked at the AO together: look at the students who flow through the link of finishing an HBO-P and who are then with a BSA. 'Cause you'll see that coming, of course. At the same time, I get it very well. We can already arrange things for students who we don't know yet if they can catch up with the delay. I'd say we're running into a delay first. Is there anything you say: no, I think that should be taken care of already? Or are you actually saying that next year you should keep an eye on whether there are students that you will not be able to do for them to catch up and for which something might have to happen at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u14	Mr Paternotte now lists a list of proposals which we have embraced and sometimes proposed ourselves, for example the extension of the supplementary grant. It was first dissuaded. I am very pleased that this has now been included in the proposals. And yes, of course we have to do all these things to help the most vulnerable students. We have indeed talked about the group that now wants to flow from the MBO, for example. It is very good that the Minister indicated that those other moments are being looked at, that they can start and that there is scope for that BSA. But my question tonight is next. We are now talking about the law that regulates this compensation and there is room for that defined group, namely the seniors, to make the commitment: we got your back; we are behind you; we are your safety net. Then why not say now: we want this coulance for students for whom it will only become visible at a later stage? I'm worried that students from groups with a higher risk of failure are already demotivated, worried and thinking: how should this go on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u15	I get that. I think you will notice from the list that I mention you find D66 on your side when you say that there is a group that can do nothing about it, that has problems and that we have to help in a certain way. That is why we have made many proposals. Only now I think: the main aim must be to avoid any delay in studying and to ensure that someone can finish his studies on time. It's best for everyone. If it turns out to be impossible, then we need to look further at that moment. We do have to do that with a warm heart. But is there something you are saying already: I want to have this measure in this law in order to be able to support him?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u16	I want a commitment from the Minister that she will give this group of students the scope and scope to compensate them if a delay does not occur until later. We have previously exchanged in the AO that the cut that has now been made with those additional resources to remedy delays between p.o., vo and mbo, and on the other hand h.o., which is outside, has been a largely financial-driven cut. I would now very much like the Minister to promise that the group of students who are not currently covered by the law will be able to count on coulance and space, even if this delay does not take place until later. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u17	Thank you. I call Mr Wiersma on behalf of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u18	Mr President, thank you. I would like to start by complimenting you very much, because a lot of things we are discussing here today have been set in motion as a raging process. That's been a lot of hard work by a lot of people. Let me say this to the officials too: it is incredibly beautiful how you coordinated and steered that. I think that's worth a big compliment. The input to the legislative process we are discussing here is also relatively mild and positive. This indicates how careful and supportive work has been done. That's just handsome. It's necessary, and it's good. We welcome that, so we also intend to support this bill. Mr. Chairman. That said, corona of course affects everyone. It is also always a consideration: where is the need highest and are the circumstances so intense that you really need to intervene? And when are you not gonna do that? Those are pretty complicated considerations. I'm not ruling out that over time... Because we do not have control over that virus, we do not already have control over these considerations and we cannot anticipate them either. Although we can do it all together, this is not the time or the stage to see if you can realize things you've always wanted as a party. Now is the time to look together for the place where this is most needed and to do so with all of us. Mr. Chairman. In doing so, you must have a real eye for the concerns of students. Well, that's a lucky thing to do. So we are also pleased that there are targeted possibilities for compensation and that there are targeted opportunities to facilitate admission. Those are just really good points. What I find from participation is that they sometimes think: it sometimes happens very quickly; sometimes a little outside of us. Some of them have very good experiences with that. In Leiden they had very good contacts with that participation and met digitally. But I also spoke to co-determination councils that had greater concerns. I wonder how we can keep an eye on that. Perhaps in the next service document we should consider best practices for participation and include how you maintain that contact. I'd like that. Mr. Chairman. Then another point, which is not entirely related to this law but to starting as a student. It's kind of spicy if you've made a choice as a school dropout and maybe you haven't even had the day off. My wife works at Utrecht University and has organized digital walking days. That went pretty well, that's very nice, but it's different. So at the same time, I've got to worry about how we're gonna help those students. Why am I saying that now? I hear from a lot of associations that are doing their utmost to regulate this, that they run into rather complex licensing procedures in municipalities, for example for outdoor activities. They want to do their utmost to get that organized, but they already have to make choices to do it right by the end of August. Due to the delay in issuing permits, they are having a hard time with that. So my question is whether the Minister is prepared to watch how you streamline with domes of student organisations and perhaps municipalities or the VNG. Because it's also different from one municipality to another. I know it's also a security region thing. But I've got to take care of that. It would be a shame if very good activities were not to continue in the near future because the licence application went very slowly. Can we not just speed that up, precisely because we think the importance of this group of new students is so important? I have no further comments. Thanks again to all those people who make this possible. I hope this ends, but we don't know how corona develops. So we will have to take into account that we need more. So I think it is also very good that we change that service document every time. My compliments on that, too. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u19	Thank you. Finally, Mr Futselaar has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u20	Mr. Chairman. You always make yourself popular when you're the last speaker of the evening, especially if you've signed up for most of your speaking time. I must say, however, that when I heard Mr Wiersma say that the reactions were relatively mild, I thought: he clearly did not read my contribution in the written contribution. Mr. Chairman. Before I dwell on the content of the law of assembly, I would like to dwell briefly on the form of the law of assembly. The only thing that binds all the different topics in this collective laws is that they are somehow related to corona measures that need to be taken or that take into account the possibility that they may need to be taken. In fact, all these proposals are bound up with reason alone. Furthermore, there is no link: not in terms of content, because they cover three or four ministries, nor in terms of time pressure. In this respect, the amendment by GroenLinks fits perfectly into this bill, because it has no connection with the other parts. Some parts of this law really need to go through both chambers before the summer. In other words, this is obviously not the case, as is also more or less recognised in the response in the written contribution. Mr. Chairman. My group finds the use of collective laws problematic, for ourselves as a Lower House, but certainly for the Upper House, which of course can only say yes or no to a law. So it doesn't have the power to steer anymore. It is not for nothing that it was mainly the First Chamber that opposed the phenomenon of collecting law at all in the past. The government refers in its written reply to a letter to the First Chamber of 2011 in which the government formulates a number of rules of thumb and an indication of the use of collective laws. The dangerous thing about referring to such letters is that I'm going to read those letters. For example, that letter states that there is consistency according to the rules if there is consistency between the proposals in terms of content, thematic, budgetary or implementation. That is not the case under this law. Only the cause of all legal elements has coherence, namely COOVID-19. As far as SP is concerned, therefore, this collecting law does not meet the criteria set out in the 2011 letter. That is a little aggravated by the fact that we received this law at such a late date in the parliamentary year. Simply put, if this Chamber doesn't pass this law this week, or if the Senate doesn't adopt this law next week, it won't happen. For example, students who want to be able to flow under a provisional admission will potentially be in big trouble. Therefore, not voting for this law is not an option in this respect, nor is it an option for the SP, and that is what I am saying. The government also stated in its reply in the written round that there were no different subjects that had already been completed and which were therefore awaiting the full text of the emergency law. If that's what the government says, I'll take it. I note, however, that on quite a few chessboards the government sails very sharply when we get such a collective law so soon before the summer. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to the contents. I'll start with the chapter on national monuments. The cabinet wants to amend Article 7.8 of the Heritage Act. That article makes a short turn that you don't get a loan for the maintenance of your monument if you've already received a grant for the same project. I have already pointed out in the written round that I see a potential problem with regard to Article 7.6 of the same law. That article says that you will not receive a grant if you have already obtained a loan. Now, for example, I foresee the next situation. You're an institution, you have a national monument. You're gonna restore that. That's a big project for which you get some funding. In corona time, your income falls and you apply for a loan. Then you'll find out that there's a beautiful Roman fresco or that there's asbestos everywhere in your building, which turns out to be a lot higher. So you say: Ministry, help me; I would like more subsidy. And then there is Article 7.6, which says: yes, but you cannot get a grant for a project for which you also received a loan. So my question is: is it not logical to amend Article 7.6 on the basis of that too, or is this a completely pointless concern? Of course, you can do the latter. Mr. Chairman. Then the registration of prospective students who do not yet meet all the requirements. That is perhaps the most important and urgent part of the law. Of course, we welcome this proposal which can help prevent a lot of problems for delayed students and students. We do have some concerns about the potential single institution that might give a very different interpretation of allowing it for the time being. Within the framework of the law, institutional or training authorities have the potential to direct them. The Minister is right to say that a uniform application of the law is guaranteed by the need to treat all students in the same training in the same way. But we also believe that a uniform application also applies to similar training courses, so that social work in Groningen does not apply entirely different conditions than Social Work in Leiden. This is not a huge problem, because we have already talked about trust. I do trust that most institutions are doing this right. But legislation is made not only for the good, but also for the evil and the exceptions. In any case, I would like to ask the Minister whether she is prepared to monitor the signals a little bit: is all this going well? It doesn't have to be all the same, but it has to be a bit in line with each other, because you just don't want such big differences in something that important. Mr. Chairman. Then the compensation for students. This bill actually gives the Minister a free hand in making a scheme for filling in the compensation for students in the final stage of their training. For the rest, nothing is laid down in the law. For example, you can see that very clearly in the written input of the CDA. The CDA asks: why are students not eligible for compensation for private training? The nice thing is that that's not in the law at all. The law doesn't rule out those students. What these students exclude is the explanatory statement and what is written in it. And it can't amend the CDA. Even if the CDA wants to go so far as to say "we want those private students to be included in the scheme," they do not have any parliamentary means of doing so at the moment. A similar frustration when I talk to the CDA, I also have myself, because also the SP of course has its own ideas about the compensation scheme. I have already had an exchange of views with the Minister on the content of the AA we discussed earlier. We have an amendment to the supplementary budget to extend the compensation, because we believe that it should also apply to the wo bachelor. In fact, however, it is not legal to regulate this, because I cannot enter into the regulation which has just been consulted. I find that unsatisfactory, I would like to say again. That consultation was opened last week and closed yesterday. That doesn't really imply a super long-term and careful process. So here my group is once again faced with a dilemma. We would very much like to have a full debate on the compensation scheme and perhaps give more details of the law, but the Minister says: yes, but if we do not accept this part now, the benefit will be at risk in September. I understand that, too. It is therefore not an option for my group to say: we are simply going to amend this whole piece and we are going to talk about it together in September. I would therefore like to say that we reserve the right to reopen the discussion on compensation in the autumn, for example in connection with an inventory of the delay, which we have just agreed will be held. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the Justice and Security section. I want to be honest about this: I had received a number of questions from my justice spokesperson about the fact that we are now giving judges the opportunity to sit for three years longer. So the question is, why do you choose three years? The corona crisis is probably not gonna last that long. So it seems that we are now also solving the regular delay with this measure, and not just the corona delay. But I happened to be two VAOs ago when I came here, chairman of the Justice Committee, to replace Mr Van Meenen. That question was answered there. I find it silly to ask the same question here, but I would like to highlight how uncomfortable it is that an educational spokesperson who is not about justice should ask an education minister who is not about justice in this case. That, too, says something about the inconvenience and undesirableness of these kinds of collective laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u21	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. She can start the reply immediately. So I'd like to give her the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u22	Mr President, thank you. I would like to thank all Members for their contributions and also for the efforts they have made to implement this proposal in the short term. Mr. Chairman. Before I begin the substantive answer, I would like to say one thing about the preparation of this bill. One of you said that the ministries were also working very hard. I just want to say thank you to one person in particular. Our Director of Legal Affairs in the Department, Jan Veringa, retired last Friday after some delay. But he stayed extra in this corona time to bring this kind of legislative proposal to a successful conclusion, for example. He has done so intensively and loyally, and he has been so intensively assisting Mr Slob and me over the past few months in everything that needed to be sorted out, that I would like to thank him for a place in the Acts. I know he'll be happy about that. Jan, this is an incredible way of thanking you for your work. And to Mr Futselaar I say: despite the fact that there is quite a possibility of criticising the bill. Mr. Chairman. For me, too, this is very special. That means that I say to Mr Futselaar that as a cabinet too, you should not want this kind of collectible laws. It always has something uncomfortable. Despite the fact that the cabinet speaks with one voice, I am also in a position to deal with some uncomfortable issues, such as driving licences, the age of judges and healthcare premiums. That's not something I can just answer all the questions about. So, yeah, it's got something uncomfortable. The cabinet also says that this is generally undesirable. You shouldn't do that. So there is also great restraint when you come up with such a collectible law. And yet here we have chosen to do so. As it has to be in this time, unfortunately, we have a number of things that you simply want to settle in a very short time frame. These are legislative proposals which also require urgent consideration from the Council of State. If you are going to do that again and again in a separate proposal, that also requires a lot of extra work. At the same time, we have considered that the complexity of some of the issues dealt with here is not such as to justify a separate legislative proposal; hence this choice. But I'm telling you, this doesn't deserve a beauty prize. Mr Futselaar is quite right to avoid this kind of collective law as much as possible, especially because of its urgency. Mr. Chairman. I am well aware that we have submitted this at a very late date. It would have been more elegant if I had perhaps also given a warning to the Chamber: this is coming and that requires a great deal of work from you in the short term. That has been more sophisticated and therefore I would like to thank you all for your cooperation in the fact that we can deal with the legislative proposal this week. I also sincerely hope that you will vote on it this week, because that will also be possible in the First Chamber next week. Then students in a number of areas simply know what they are up to. Then, for example, we can arrange the soft cut. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to some of the questions that have been asked. I'm trying to do that as thematically as possible. First of all, the issue of the Heritage Act. Mr Futselaar has seen very well that the bill regulates a kind of new coincidence in the grant or loan under the Erfgoedwet. But now he is actually asking whether this should not be regulated in Article 7.6. They are owners of national monuments who have received a loan for a restoration. In that case, you can indeed not get an additional subsidy. If you opt for a loan that is often a low-interest mortgage from the National Restoration Fund you can get 100% of the restoration costs financed. There is therefore no need for additional subsidies. If your restoration costs are unexpectedly higher, you can obtain an additional low-interest loan on the basis of the conditions set by the National Restoration Fund. So that coincidence has already been arranged. There was therefore no need to amend this law. Mr Futselaar spoke about conditional admission in education. That is a very important point. Mr Wiersma said that it is very important that we take care of this for students, because this is also an important tool to prevent the students who are not yet in their final year from being unduly delayed. Mr Futselaar rightly asks how to prevent arbitrariness. How do you prevent a student from flowing in one case and not in the other? Mr Futselaar and I are both a bit of the principle: we have a lot of confidence, but sometimes you also want to keep your finger on the wrist. The higher education service document contains agreements on how institutions should best shape conditional admission. I trust that I have also seen so far that the administrative arrangements in the service document are also in place. Mbo settings, for example, give rounding advice when switching from mbo to hbo. They therefore indicate what a student has and has not completed, with an opinion on whether they think he can continue to flow. The agreement is that this should be given a very important role in admission to college. Higher education institutions should, in turn, take into account the legal equality and legal certainty of students. Students eligible for the same training should really be assessed in the same way. I expect people to be transparent and open about how they do that. If a student disagrees, he can of course always object to the Disputes Committee. I will always get a lot of signals from participation with the institutions and student organisations via the ISO and LSVb and I will always keep the finger on students that this is going well. I think it is very important with Mr Futselaar that this is really well organised. Mr. Chairman. In previous general discussions we have already had a discussion on whether the compensation scheme should not be extended to the wo-bachelor. I have already said that Mr Futselaar actually has a valid reasoning about this. We have chosen the 80/20. For the large bulk of students, things are going well. I can also see that the number of registrations for a master is quite high. Probably in view of the situation on the labour market, we see that more students will choose to stay longer in education. We have had a debate on this. We didn't agree on it, and I don't think we're gonna be here either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u23	An attempt, Mr. Fuzzler, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u24	No, Mr. Chairman, I've given up that hope. Let me ask you a very practical question. There is an amendment for me to give extra budget to the compensation scheme, with the underlying aim of extending the scheme to the wo-bachelor. I am the first to acknowledge that I may still have some missionary work to do, but should the amendment be adopted, will the Minister be prepared to amend the draft regulation in accordance with that amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u25	If your mission work is of such quality that you get a majority for it, I am not too bad to spend that money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u26	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u27	Mrs Westerveld and Mrs Van den Hul asked how I keep an eye on whether students are being delayed. Mrs van den Hul also asks whether I can promise now that the students who may be delayed will have a view on compensation. I agree with Mr Wiersma that this really would not be a sensible choice. That is not just a question of financial space. That really is a choice from the content, for a number of reasons. Every student would rather have his degree in time than compensation. So you have to do everything you can with each other to make sure that your systems are set up in such a way that delays are prevented. Hence, for example, we made a soft cut from a hard cut. That is why we have given the MBO extra resources to accompany extra. That is why I believe that the transition from MBO to higher education, but also throughout higher education, should take a close look at the duty of care that one really has to provide the best possible guidance for students. Will this be a complex task, both for higher education and for the student? Yeah, but these are tough times, too, for all of us. I also know that we are asking a lot of people in this, but if you would already say that we accept that for very broad groups there is a delay, we will not ultimately help the student. Because the incentive to prevent that delay is so largely removed. I agree with Mr Wiersma on this point. It's a bit of: we'll cross that bridge when we get there. We're gonna keep our finger on the pulse and we're gonna monitor closely, but we're gonna have to keep everything on top of each other now so we don't slow down. That's what really helps your students. Does it ask a lot of everyone? Yeah, but it's the smartest choice now. When exactly do we see this? Here too, just as we monitor all education policies every year, we keep a very close eye on what it looks like. Mr. Chairman. In this context, Mrs Westerveld had the question: how are vulnerable students financially supported? Look, I agree with Mrs Westerveld that you need to prevent vulnerable students, who are already having a hard time, from getting extra hurt at this time. That is why we have also agreed with the Association of Colleges, the VSNU and the NRTO that their members will use the space available from 15 June for testing, practical education and additional guidance for vulnerable students. So we also ask them to use the space available to receive them as much as possible on location where it really helps the vulnerable students. The other signal we hear is that it also offers opportunities for many students with disabilities to follow digital education. This means that they do not have to make the journey to the educational institution, which is not easy for some students with disabilities. So there's two sides to it. For the summer recess, the student welfare working group will publish a hand-out with points of interest for the upcoming academic year and for the re-launch of physical education: how do you take vulnerable students into account as much as possible? Despite all these measures, I cannot exclude that vulnerable students will need additional support in the near future. The care obligations of colleges and universities already fill in daily via additional support, adapted examination opportunities or financial means, for example through the Profiling Fund. I continue to monitor the situation of vulnerable students. I'm gonna keep interfering with this, too. For example, if we have that hand-off, we're going to see if we can see it in practice. How's the appeal to the Profiling Fund coming along? Is that okay? I therefore agree with you that we need to pay particular attention to this. Mrs Westerveld also asked me...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u28	Mrs Westerveld, about the last thing the Minister said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u29	This is about the vulnerable students. I do not know whether the Minister has now completed the answer, but at least I am very pleased that the Minister says: we will continue to monitor this. I think it is very good to keep this group in sight, not only when it comes to the question of whether they can get access to education, but also when it comes to the financial side. Then, of course, you have the Profiling Fund, but sometimes these students receive additional benefits because they need them because of the higher costs. I would like to ask the Minister whether she is in any way able to check with her colleagues on the care side and on the income side whether this group is doing well, for example in six months' time. I can imagine that this group will be further delayed. This, of course, has an impact on employment opportunities and so on. I think we really should keep a close eye on this. Of course, that's a little bit of a ministry-crossing too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u30	I have already promised earlier today and also last week in a debate towards Mr Futselaar that we will indeed monitor the groups of students who are really being delayed or who are failing. Because that is another concern: that there are students who fail. That's the monitor I promised. In that debate, I also believe that I have promised to give you an idea of what is going on and whether we have sufficient vision of it this autumn. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Westerveld also had a question about students with sub-certificates. The legislative proposal makes it possible to allow students who do not yet fully meet the pre-training requirements and admission requirements. The conditions are that this is due to the corona crisis, that they can catch up with their study delay within the prescribed period and that they have sufficient knowledge and skills to enable them to start further training. This means that institutions also have the possibility to allow students who may still have to obtain one or a few partial certificates, for example when it comes to taking state examinations. So that's possible. In the service document you will also find those appointments, for example when it comes to state examinations in relation to admission to a Bachelor's degree programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u31	I understand this reaction, but I think we have a dilemma now. I had a debate on this in a debate with Minister Slob and also last week in a debate with Minister Slob, because students who opt for a partial certificate do not get re-opportunity. For example, students in special secondary education who opt for a diploma receive four. Minister Slob says that this is also due to the limited availability of examiners. I can follow that, but it is of course difficult if institutions in higher education can let these upcoming students in, but then there will be no re-opportunity within a year. I understand that this is a puzzle, that it is a discussion that we may have to continue with Minister Slob, but it does run between the good intentions of this law and its implementation when it comes to students who have to obtain certificates, who get zero re-opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u32	I understand your question. For example, if you still have to take a state exam and you need it to be admitted to the Bachelor's programme, you have until 1 January. Then you say: but what if there isn't the chance until January 1st? We do not know if such situations will occur. It will probably be a single exception. For cases like this, we usually just have a hardness clause. So I think that's gonna solve itself through that route. If it's any different, there's always something we can do. Maybe I'll be standing here with an emergency bill to fix this. But I have the feeling that this will solve itself because we have until January. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mrs Westerveld's question as to which non-EEA countries are members of the Bologna process and whether these students were included in this bill. Non-EEA countries belonging to the European Higher Education Area include countries such as Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Albania and Armenia. What is included in the bill for international influx is equally regulated for EEA and non-EEA students. So the bill makes it possible for both EEA and non-EEA students to be admitted to a Dutch Master's programme if an admission requirement has not yet been met. I think we covered that distinction in the bill. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a number of issues that lie in areas on which I, with the spokesmen here, say: it is not the areas in which I am most at home, but I am doing my best to respond to them. First of all, I come to the amendment to item No. 9 by Mr Groothuizen and Mr Van Dam on the period during which judges may be re-appointed after 70 years. This amendment, I believe, was discussed at another meeting in this building, and is judged by the Chamber. I think we all need a lot of discussion. Mr. Chairman. Mr Futselaar made another point about the measure on age limits. In particular, it is intended to solve the working stock resulting from corona. There's nothing that gets away from: oh yes, there were other delays and we do so in this way. Then a point in the area of the Ministry of IenW: driving licences. Mr Rog asked if the cabinet would be willing to monitor the effects on road safety of the proposal to allow holders of a non-Dutch driving licence from outside the European Union to obtain a Dutch driving licence. As announced by the Minister of IenW, in a more general sense the possible effects on road safety will be discussed by holders of foreign driving licences with the Public Prosecutor, the police and the National Road Traffic Agency, including this monitoring. Monitoring will also discuss the possible effects of this legislative proposal. I must point out, however, that the duration of this legislative proposal and the group involved in it are really very limited, which may make it difficult to monitor its precise effects on road safety. But the Minister has informed me that she will discuss the possibilities for this and will inform the Chamber of the outcome of that consultation. Then there is Mrs Westerveld's amendment on the extension of the disaster regime. Mrs Westerveld will not be entirely surprised that I should not recommend that amendment. The disaster scheme ensures that the additional cost of corona that insurers are required to cover does not exceed 4% of their settlement fee. In order to cover these costs, insurers must apply the reserves. The cabinet assumes that health insurers will use their reserves to cover these costs. These reserves are also intended to cover financial setbacks. The requirements of GroenLinks in the amendment to use reserves are contrary to European regulations. It is also not legally possible to make a change with adverse consequences for health insurers in the current year. This also undermines the legitimate trust of health insurers. A health insurer should also not fall below its statutory own funds requirement. The Netherlands Bank supervises this. On the contrary, GroenLinks' amendment can lead to future premium increases. I think that was exactly what Mrs Westerveld thought she was trying to prevent. For these reasons, the amendment is not recommended. Mrs Westerveld also asked me whether the cost of corona should not be separated from the general cost of care. Shouldn't we prevent the healthcare premium from rising more rapidly and the cost of this crisis from reaching middle income? There are currently no signs that the overall cost of care is much higher due to this crisis. If the total cost of care does not increase much due to the cost of corona, then the premium will also not get much higher. The consequences of the COVID-19 crisis will have to be borne by all parties, both by the State and by health insurance companies and by the contributor. There is therefore no reason why the cost of corona should not affect the premium at all. The cabinet does assume that health insurance companies will use their reserves to dampen that premium increase. That is what these reserves are intended for. Moreover, low incomes are always compensated for this increase in contributions through the care allowance. Furthermore, every year in August we look at the purchasing power effects and this year we will certainly also look closely at the purchasing power effects on the middle incomes. But, in view of all this, I must advise against your amendment. Mr President, I have come to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u33	But Mrs Westerveld has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u34	I do so with the risk that, as a spokesperson who is not the spokesperson on this subject, I will end up in a technical discussion with a minister who is not the spokesperson on the subject. With our amendment, we want to ensure that middle incomes are not affected. If we do nothing, we know that the cost of care is rising and that part of it ends up with this group through care contributions and income-dependent care contributions. The Minister then says: if we implement your amendment, we run the risk that the healthcare premium will have to go up a detour. Of course, we don't want to get into that. But doesn't the Minister agree with me that if we don't do something, the care premium will go up anyway? If so, should we not do something to prevent the middle incomes from being directly affected by the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u35	Mrs Westerveld understands very well that she is asking me to do the impossible if she asks me to predict what this crisis is going to do with the care premiums. Even if the VWS colleagues were standing here, they would not be able to say exactly what is going to happen. I have just indicated to you that in August, when we establish the purchasing power picture, the cabinet has a more precise picture of it. I'd say that's the time to have that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u36	Thank you. Is there a need for a second term? Not everyone is present in the room, because the gentlemen are in the walkway. Actually, we don't even have a quorum anymore! Gentlemen! Do any of you need a second term? I see that this is not the case and that is why we came to the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-45.u37	The votes on the amendments and the legislative proposal will take place next Thursday. Finally, I wish you all a good evening!
