ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u1	I shall give the floor to Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr President, thank you colleagues and Minister for the opportunity of this short third term. The motion-Rietkerk c.s. provides for an annual evaluation, including on the functioning of public authorities. My group asks the Minister whether she is prepared to involve in this annual evaluation the cooperation between the central and local authorities and the structures within which this cooperation takes place, in particular the nature component. How does this work? I would ask the Minister to include the way in which national and decentralised ambitions in the field of nature conservation and enhancement are or are not achieved, as well as whether the structures of cooperation are working sufficiently to achieve the objectives set in an efficient way. That was my question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr Recourt. Are there any other Members who would like to speak in the third term? That is not the case. I shall now give the floor to the government in the third term. I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. And thank you very much to Mr Recourt for the supplementary question that was put in the third term. Mr Recourt is actually asking whether there are any in the evaluation of the Rietkerk c.s. motion. It is also important for the Commission to take account of the need to involve one more element, in particular the cooperation of central and local authorities with regard to the development of nature and the achievement of their ambitions. We also report on the realisation of the ambitions with regard to nature, and also on the agreements we have made with the local authorities. I can promise that, at the moment when the ambitions are not met, I will see what the reason is. Eventually, that's what you want to know, I guess. May I explain the question as follows? We report on developments in the construction of nature. We also report on how that develops. If we see that things are not going well, we will look at the underlying reasons. If I may give this to Mr Recourt in that way... I have to check with Mr Ollongren whether we can do this in response to the letter she will send, or whether I will send a letter separately. We need to coordinate this, but I can inform you about it in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u5	That's nice. The question also arises as to whether the evaluation looks at the relationship between central and decentralised standards, whether this is going well. So apart from achieving those goals: how does this collaboration go?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u6	In general, I can make a statement on this, but I think it is particularly interesting to look at the underlying reasons when things are not going well. That doesn't necessarily have to be in cooperation. There may also be other reasons, but I can promise that I will try to explain the underlying reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u7	Thank you. Then I shall close the debate, or would Mr Recourt like to make a final interruption to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u8	I want to thank the Minister. This makes it possible for my group to vote in favour of this law, because it at least reflects our great concern and allows us to intervene when necessary. That will no longer require an explanation of vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u9	Thank you, Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-8.u10	We shall now proceed to the vote.
