ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-16.u1	The next item is the VSO report on the fact that the bonus for a 12.5-year anniversary is due to the Wajong benefit. I welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. Of course, a warm welcome to the Members of Parliament. Welcome to the people who follow this VSO in a different way. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk. He speaks on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-16.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're here because of Jan. Jan's 32 years old. He's been working at a supermarket for 12.5 years. He got an anniversary bonus for that. Then you'd say: that's logical and beautiful, and a nice appreciation for Jan and his good work there. But what does it turn out to be? He had to hand in his bonus. That was a disgrace to the Chamber, six months ago. This was also a disgrace to society. Fortunately, forces also emerged in society, led by Sywert van Lienden and Bart Nijman, who raised an extra amount of about 16,000 euros for this best Jan. The question is whether he should turn that in or whether he should keep it. It's not just about Jan. It's about all those people doing fantastic work, along with a lot of colleagues, in the same workplace. We in the Labour Party, and I hope many parties here, assume that we are assuming equal treatment for all. So if you work somewhere 12.5 years and you get a bonus for that, then everyone should get that bonus. Then we run into Jan's Wajong laws. Those are the rules. Yeah, that's the rules. But I think that we are here in The Hague in favour of adjusting the rules if that is necessary, if it does not work for people, if we want to give appreciation to people like Jan, who are doing a very good job and who want equal treatment. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas people with disabilities have the same right to be valued as their colleagues;]] [[Whereas special remuneration, such as jubilee gratifications, is now deducted from the benefit, which means that people with disabilities benefit less or no financial benefit from this remuneration;]] [[calls on the Government to amend the law in such a way that workers with reduced working hours obtain the same financial benefit from a one-off special wage as those on comparable income who do not have benefits,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35213-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-16.u3	Mr. Chairman. I fully agree with Mr Gijs van Dijk. This is an injustice. There's a brand-new Secretary of State here. He has a great opportunity today to correct this injustice. We're assuming that's gonna work. Unfortunately, my amendment to precisely this effect was rejected six months ago. Anyway, new round, new odds. That's why I'm tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is quite unfair for young disabled people to lose their bonus, such as a bonus for 12.5 years of faithful service, because of a reduction in the benefit;]] [[calls on the Government to realise that working young disabled people may keep perks of at least €1,200 per year, without cutting the benefit for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35213-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-16.u4	Then I have a motion on the possibility of subtracting expenses, because there is also unequal treatment. That is clear from the text of the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that it is unfair for social employers, who employ many people with disabilities, to pay tax-free per employee on average only around €30 per month, whereas expensive consultancy firms are allowed to pay a multiple of these;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a proposal whereby social employers and other employers who have a relatively low total wage bill can benefit from the free space in the working cost scheme for a higher amount,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35213-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-16.u5	Thank you, Mr President. An anniversary benefit, a bonus, but also the fee for once overtime: you can turn everything in. I spoke to two Wajangers who work somewhere on a terrace: cleaning, wiping leaves. Their boss said, "Would you like to join us for a weekend, because it's gonna be very crowded in the village; can you work for a weekend?" And those two guys said, "Yeah, that's what we're gonna do." But you can also turn in the overtime allowance. The Wajong leaves nothing for the people who do something extra or earn something extra. And if there are people who deserve something extra, it's them. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the whole process shows two things. The first is that our social security is through and through harsh for the weakest in our society. The second is that our social security is bureaucratic, because the SO report and the letters we have received clearly show that we have actually made it so complicated that it cannot be repaired. We want to solve this everywhere, and we're told it can't be done. Reference is made to employers for employers' schemes, but it is not regulated. Hard-hulled and bureaucratic. That is why I supported both Mr Jasper van Dijk's first motion and Gijs van Dijk's motion from the PvdA. I do not have a motion of my own, but I sincerely, truly sincerely hope that we can resolve this once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-16.u6	Thank you. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Peters. He is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Let's just wait for a moment until the speaker chair is cleaned. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-16.u7	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion on the preservation of the anniversary allowance for Wajangers. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Wajongers who are employed by an employer for 12.5 years and receive a one-off bonus or gratification for that purpose can return them properly by a reduction on their benefit part;]] [[noting that non-Wajongers in the same situation can keep this bonus or gratification;]] [[noting that an exemption existed until 1994;]] [[Whereas this distinction cannot be explained to the detriment of people in a vulnerable situation;]] [[Whereas it appears that the declaration does not distinguish between fixed wages and extras and that this is the reason why not all Wajongers should keep 100% of their bonus;]] [[calls on the Government to put in place a form to ensure that this distinction is made and that an unpleasant situation is resolved neatly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Peters and Mr Palland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35213-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-16.u8	I give the floor to the Secretary of State. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-16.u9	Mr President, thank you. Thanks to the Chamber. Much has already been said about this and exchanged in writing between the Chamber and the Cabinet. I also understand the feeling of injustice that many here speak. That's what I had myself when I read that newspaper report at the time. I think everyone had that. What I can assure you, and you can also see this in the comprehensive written response we have given, is that we have really made an incredible search with the intention to solve this completely. That was my intention and that was the intention of the Secretary of State for Finance. Many things, including those in motion here, are, of course, on his property. But we also have a responsibility for feasibility and legality, and we do not see a solution here, and then I shall actually come to the motions for resolutions which would meet those criteria. If there had been such a solution, I can assure you that we would have seized it. I'm going to the motions. First of all, the motion in part No. 33 by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Renkema. In addition, you run into the problem that you should not only change the Wajong but also the wage statement. You should do another manual process. That's too vulnerable, that's just not possible for the UWV either. Let us certainly be a little sparing on our implementation organisations in the near future. They really get a lot for their hood.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-16.u10	The motion in part No. 33 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-16.u11	The same is true of the motion in part No. 34 by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Renkema. It calls for them to be allowed to keep those perks. This partly refers to a debate on Wajong legislation, which has already taken place. So I won't repeat any of that. But if you did this, you'd run into big implementation problems again. I understand that that is an annoying argument on an emotional issue like this, but at the same time it is my responsibility to monitor it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-16.u12	The motion in part No. 34 is not recommended. There is a short question from Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-16.u13	I appreciate the search from the cabinet, but reference was also made to previous legislation, in which it was possible. So isn't it possible to secure it in a collective law after all or in one of the amendments to, for example, the Wajong legislation that we're probably going to get? I understand that we are running into the rules of feasibility in the current system. But it may be a question of budget on the one hand, but on the other hand it is also a bit of political will to regulate it legally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-16.u14	That political will is with me and certainly with the Secretary of State for Finance. All the ideas that we have apparently not seen are welcome and I shall look at them again. My predecessor has been working on this very intensively. When I got this for myself, so to speak, I held those officials upside down to see if a solution would still fall out of their pockets. The answer to that is "no." I also think that this is a convincing answer when I look at the written consultations we have had on this issue. But if anyone has a brilliant idea, I'm gonna take care of it, provided it's executable. And if it has financial consequences, then there must also be a discussion about it. In fact, these motions are all calling for the whole search that we have conducted to be repeated. I would also like to avoid saying to the officials here and to the tax authorities: you have worked very hard for two months; just do it again. I don't think that makes any sense. If you have a creative idea, I'd be happy to take it with you. But we just don't see it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-16.u15	Thank you. I see a number of speakers. The motions were tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Jasper van Dijk. I will give you all the opportunity to ask one question. And that must be a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-16.u16	I can see from the Secretary of State that he also cares, that he really wants to do his best. At least that's what he's radiating. Above all, I feel that it is a capacity problem. My question is whether he doesn't want to look at it and in a letter to the Chamber within two months: I tried to increase capacity; I want to do that or I don't want to do that, because the financial consequences are this and this and it's about so and so many people. The point is that, if you say that it is not possible and ask for an idea to come from the Chamber, I would like to deal with that hand from the Secretary of State and see that he is working on it. My specific question is: can the Secretary of State come up between now and two months with a story about capacity, the size of the group and the financial resources he might want to free up in order to realize it anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-16.u17	It's not so much a matter to me as... I'm always willing to continue the search, provided I feel like we're not doing things again. I'm willing to send another letter with all my love, but my picture is that it's not so much about the capacity that we don't have enough people to do it, but about the complexity. In many of the solutions, the only thing you can do is set up a very manual process. Of course, this is more labour-intensive, but I do not think that is exactly where it insists. From the past we know manual processes in all kinds of files. In general, that only leads to new misery. It's very difficult to control. It is probably also intensive for the people about who it is and for their employers. I'd like to write a letter, but I'm afraid it's going to be about this answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-16.u18	It all sounds so powerless. It makes me a little despondent. In fact, this Secretary of State, Mr Delors, says, and he just got into this dossier: "I have looked into it, my predecessor has also studied it very carefully. The Secretary of State for Finance also wants to get on with it. There is no lack of political will, but it is simply too complicated. We can't do it, even if the Chamber wants us to. We can't do it." What does it mean for our social security if the Secretary of State responsible for policy says: I can't solve it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-16.u19	Two things about that. I think we share in many debates that all our systems in the Netherlands are quite complex. This is partly because in the Netherlands we look very much at individual situations. What is going on here is, on the one hand, under the responsibility of the Secretary of State for Finance, we are trying to get as many exceptions from the tax system as possible and to work generically. This also applies, for example, to the cost of working. This is also an objective supported by the Chamber in other debates. But it is true that we have a complex system. Everyone may itch their hands to start a tabula rasa, but you can't understand that. I certainly can't do that right now. By the way, I would like to say that at least this search has resulted in us seeing two routes. With that I don't walk out super proud to say that everything is solved, but at least they are steps. Firstly, because we have had the harmonisation of the Wajong, people will be left with 30% or more of it by 1 January 2021. The second route is that of the cost of working. He doesn't solve everything either. I can see, however, that employers are generally not yet fully aware of this cost-of-work scheme and what you would like to do with it. At least I want to talk to the UWV and say: if you have an employer at your desk who is going to hire a Wajanger, give him next to the bunch of flowers and the praise, in addition to the information he gets, information about this too, because this is what can be done. I know a lot of employers like to do this. They certainly attach importance to these target groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-16.u20	Briefly, specifically on this point. We have often asked questions about this. On behalf of the VVD, I was very pleased with the pragmatic solution we found. We can search for a long time, but in the meantime, nothing will happen for this group. That is why I am so delighted with this pragmatic solution. I am concerned with the issue of the knowledge and skills of employers about this possibility. I've asked questions about that before. You say, when I talk to the UWV, I'll give them that they like and have to press on with employers. Perhaps you'd like to go a little further into that. Can you and the UWV take a good look at how you can bring this to the attention of all the companies that employ young people in one go? I think we have at least a pragmatic route here, which does justice to all the fine work that Wajangers do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-16.u21	Perhaps Mrs Nijkerken thought: he is very little energetic about this solution. That's because I feel like it's suboptimal, but it's better than we had. I agree with you. I'm gonna go over that with more force than I just told it here, with the UWV. I regularly speak with representatives of Wajangers, whether it is the LCR or We Stand Up!. I intend to ask them to see whether this is working in the near future and whether they are encountering signals or solutions that we have not yet seen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-16.u22	Thank you. Then the motion to part No. 35.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-16.u23	I think this one's on the same page. In view of the above, I must, unfortunately, also advise against this. Then I have the Peters/Van Palland motion left. This is the motion in part No. 36. I have been able to discover one great talent a few times with Mr Peters. He is very good at putting very complex things into words sometimes very simple. I mean that sincerely. That's a gift. At the same time, I suspect that we would have done it long ago if it could be solved with just a form. I do not think Mr Peters meant it that way. Here's what I want to talk to him about. I understand with him just how he sees this. Then I'll take that to the Secretary of State for Finance. I will test this along the same lines as we have just seen. I'm not optimistic about the outcome, but I'd like to take that shot. I would ask you to hold this motion until we have done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-16.u24	Thank you, Your Excellency, for the fine words. It's always nice to get a nice compliment. Let's do this. I want on behalf of everyone in this house to do everything in my power to solve this, even if this means a corridor to the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-16.u25	At the request of Mr Peters, I propose his motion (35213, No. 36). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-16.u26	This brings us to the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-16.u27	The votes on the motions tabled will be taken next Tuesday. I thank the Secretary of State for his contribution to this VSO. I shall close the debate and suspend the sitting for a moment, because I think we can proceed immediately to the next legal procedure.
