ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u1	The issue is now the continuation of the examination of the Temporary Law measures covid-19.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. I can tell colleagues and you that Mrs Baay-Timmerman was fortunately not ill in the first place, but I have just received the results of the test: she has been tested negative. You'll understand she didn't make it back to replace me, so I'm gonna keep replacing her. But she prepared the text. It's been noted. Mr. Chairman. In recent months, the Netherlands, like other countries, has suffered a lot. Unemployment is rising and the pressure on care staff is increasing while they are still recovering from the first wave. The mortality rate in the nursing homes is back on track. In fact, there are two different situations: on the one hand, public health and on the other hand, the health of our economy. How do we find a balance in this, especially now that the virus is hitting back hard in Europe and the United States? The 50PLUS Group agrees with the view that the current measures will no longer be legally sustainable in the long term. The current emergency regulations have a so-called legal sustainability date. That is why a temporary law has been drawn up by our Minister, which seeks to strengthen the legal basis of the measures. At first glance, this seemed to be a good step towards the fight against the virus, until the first version of the bill arrived on the table of the Council of State and was sent back after very critical comments. The impact of the law was too far-reaching. This happened a second time, a third time and eventually the bill after implementing eight amendments from the House of Representatives was adopted by a majority in the House of Representatives. In this case a united action may also be said in this emergency situation of four coalition groups and four opposition parties, including those of 50PLUS. The objective of the Temporary Law measures covid-19 is to create a legal basis for the temporary restriction of different fundamental rights, as the COVID-19 virus poses a direct threat to society, especially to public health in general. There are exceptional circumstances in which the decision may be taken to derogate from the powers of the administrative authorities of provinces, municipalities and public bodies. Article 103 of the Constitution provides for this. Moreover, the States-General must always discuss and decide on the continuation of this situation. But is this situation in which we are now in an exceptional situation? What is relevant to a direct threat to society? Is that COVID-19 or are we talking about the far-reaching consequences of the tax that COVID-19 is already causing for our vulnerable healthcare system? Or are we talking about the collapse of economic activity, with all the consequences? Is there a simple answer to that? What proverbial bells need to ring to pull the emergency brake? Can this state of emergency be defined more specifically, so that it can ultimately be said that we are talking about an immediate threat of emergency by COVID-19? Is that based on the number of corona infections or the number of hospitalizations, or on the number of patients infected by corona in the ICU department? Or is that based on the number of registered persons who die from corona? Every time these questions run through each other. After all, what question is determining the state of emergency? The Minister's answers will determine the duration of this temporary law. I'd like an explanation from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Is there any thought about long-term consequences and possible long-term solutions? Or does the government here, time and time again, provide a primary response to a non-definable, imminent emergency? In recent months, my group has had the impression that not'regulating' but'reacting' was the criterion for the proclamation of measures. Hundreds of thousands of worried Dutchmen every senator is engulfed by a tsunami of e-mails - addressed us as representatives of the people with the compelling call for a proper balance of interests between the protection of health on the one hand and the preservation of fundamental rights on the other. All these questions play a major role in the necessary support in our society. Many hundreds of e-mail messages with questions are sent to the Senate intelligibly. And it is clear that, as the Prime Minister states in his press conferences, the support for the measures is crumbling. How does the Minister intend to enforce the measures with this law in hand? What about the feasibility of this Temporary Law measures covid-19? Where are we gonna get the enforcers? Is the threat to society such that it is justified to restrict the following fundamental rights: freedom of religion, freedom of association, freedom of assembly and argument, and the right to privacy, privacy? Is that justified? In short, is the threat posed by COVID-19 such a serious threat that these fundamental rights can be broken? And can the Minister state quite explicitly on what grounds this temporary law, if it is adopted, will be renewed? Because if only the size of people infected with the coronavirus determines that, without other factors, such as forced scaling of regular care, this is worrying. Then you may save the life of a corona patient, but another patient dies by abstinence from the much-needed care. I'd like a response from the Minister. This ill-drafted bill was finally adopted in the House of Representatives after the third modified version, through the much-needed amendments. It has been restored to some sort of patchwork by art and flying, but it has not contributed sufficiently to an essential part of legislation, namely sufficient support and understanding in society. Everyone understands the phrase 'emergency breaks the law', but my group wonders whether the lack of conviction, the lack of clarity of rules and the lack of clear policy over the past few months means that the government can only use the means of coercion. My colleague, Mrs Baay, had the debate on the CoronaMelder two weeks ago. It was critical of the feasibility of this law due to the lack of testing possibilities, test material and test capacity. It also raised the risk of false safety. Now it is known that many of our supporters who could download the app are there many, although that is not possible on every mobile phone.... are quite wrongly under the assumption that this app warns you if you walk past a covid infected person. So you could, as it were, detect a contagion on your phone. This shows that information on the operation of the app still leaves much to be desired. I agree with Mrs Prins, who said that proactive information and communication on this issue are essential, especially if this information is passive and is only given when asked for it. Mr. Chairman. Back to the bill. Here, too, there is a risk of false safety which may call for the measures to be taken. Can we indeed defeat this virus by restricting fundamental rights? In countries such as France and Spain, where very severe restrictions have been imposed on the population for months, new fireplaces are constantly emerging. We have heard about this again today: a curfew in Spain and Italy and even at regional level allowing a lockdown until May 2021. What specific expectation does the Minister have of forced wearing masks, 1.5 metres away and a possible full lockdown that can be imposed even for a limited period of time? Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS wishes to draw attention to Article 58e (1) (a), the basis for the differentiation of measures, including for ages. If this law enters into force, there will be a wide range of powers to introduce different measures for individual age groups. Our group wonders whether this will not create a two-track society. Such measures can be categorized as age discrimination, whereas this virus can affect and affect anyone, regardless of age, young and old. It is true that for the seniors-plus category, the end-of-seventies, the 80s or older contagion may be fatal, but to impose specific measures on every 60 or 70-year-old, my group goes far too far. Young people with covid also end up in the hospital. We are seeing more and more examples of this. Can the Minister explain again why he considers these age discriminatory measures necessary? How does he intend to implement that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u4	I hear Mr Van Rooijen present an extensive questionnaire to the cabinet. This means that 50PLUS still has enough questions about the law after the approval in the Lower House. I'm just curious how you look at your colleague's amendment in the House of Representatives. How realistic is the outcome of that amendment? How realistic is it with the handholds the government gets that that visit can indeed continue forever?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u5	Thank you for your question. Mrs Van Brenk's amendment was widely supported in the House of Representatives, because, in the debate and preparation, it was also clear that that right of visit was very important, not only for the temporary duration of this law, but also for the subsequent period. That's what the past has proven. For us, too, the right to visit remains paramount, given that, if situations in nursing homes give rise to this, the protection of everyone else, including the care staff of course, is primacy, which has been often forced to work under difficult conditions in recent times without adequate protective equipment. Of course, we do not want that either. But...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u7	The President considered that this reply was sufficient. I find that interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u8	I would ask Members to keep the interruptions and the answers a little shorter than this morning, because we are now an hour behind. Otherwise, things are gonna get really out of hand. So I would like the reactions to each other in the deadlines. The interruptions are for brief enlightening questions. So if you have one more question, Mr. Van Pareren, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u9	I thought my question was very short. The answer was a little more elaborate. I'd like to get on with it. You state yourself that there are a lot of ifs and buts on it. We ourselves get a lot of questions from those involved how sure all this is. I'm glad you're aware that there's a lot of ifs and buts on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u10	Please continue your argument, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u11	Yes, Mr. Chairman. So I asked the Minister if he could explain again why he considers these age discriminatory measures necessary and how he intends to implement them. The aforementioned group of senior citizens does not want to be dismissed as pathetic and vulnerable. They're not. I am also an example of this. They want the same rights as their younger fellows. Mr. Chairman. At the joint committee meeting of VWS, JenV and BIZa, the spokesmen agreed to the further request for the opinion of the Council of State on the Buitenweg and Others amendment. on the right of assent of the Chamber to ministerial arrangements. The Council of State expressed its views on this on 2 October, and the conclusion is that it is justifiable, I would say that the power to agree to the ministerial arrangement is granted only to the House of Representatives. The Lower House is given greater involvement in the adoption of delegated regulations than the Eerste Kamer. Moreover, control by the Lower House will only take place afterwards. The arrangements have already been adopted, but have not yet entered into force. In other words, the First Chamber is put out of play. Is this situation not correct that we must rely on the fundamental principles of the democratic rule of law and the control of the States-General, including the Supreme Court? Is this not necessary to create trust and support within society, especially in view of all the e-mails we have received from concerned citizens in recent times? The Council of State justifies the exclusion of the First Chamber with the speed to be exercised in special circumstances which are at issue in the fight against the virus. Remarkable is the addition in its opinion that the exclusion of the First Chamber reduces the risk of a stalemate between the Minister, the Second Chamber and the First Chamber, which would unduly affect the power of the Board. Does my group understand that this legislative proposal is swifter than care, and that a possible difference of opinion between the Second and First Chambers on the legality of measures should be set aside in order not to jeopardise the power of the ministers? 50PLUS is actually bewildered about these justified reasons, because with malicious will you can always put them forward for more legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u12	Mr Van Rooijen, the speaking time you have reserved has already expired for some time. So can I ask you to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u13	Mr President, I am almost at the end. But I also had a brief introduction, as you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u14	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u15	50PLUS is bewildered, I repeat it; I also had to repeat it because of the interruption in the sentence just now about these justifications. Because with malicious will, you can always put it in front of any bill, or for a lot of legislative proposals, I just said. How does that relate to the adagium "hasty haste is rarely good"? Finally, Mr President, you will be served at your beck and call. My group would like to point out that it is extremely cynical that the Senate is being asked to vote in favour of a law which lacks the right to vote of the First Chamber on the measures to be taken. Mr. Chairman. My group looks forward to a substantive and comprehensive response from the Minister to the opinion of the Council of State and is happy to hear how he intends to deal with it. Finally I say, remember Matthew 22: Love the neighbors as yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u17	Mr Van Rooijen is already throwing Bible texts; I am used to that from the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u18	Well, it wasn't throwing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u19	What's your question, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u20	Mr President, my question is as follows. I fully agree with Mr Van Rooijen, as is so often the case, that it is extremely cynical how the First Chamber is excluded here. My question to Mr Van Rooijen is therefore: do you support the request that I have already announced to do something about this? This can be done, for example, by means of a novelle or by other means, so that we can solve this in order to get that role of the First Chamber back where it should be, namely that we have to agree on that heavy front.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u21	Subject to the Government's response, I would like to say here that my group, as the interruptions have clearly shown, is considering tabling a motion for a resolution in the second period of time on a difficult procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u22	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Janssen on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u23	Mr. Chairman. Putting on glasses takes time, I see; perhaps take lenses anyway. A word in advance. Of course, the SP also craves the end of this pandemic, in which we have seen so many people fall victim in all kinds of ways. We therefore continue to express our gratitude to all those who contribute or have contributed in any way and will contribute to the defeat of this pandemic. I'd like to have said that in advance. Mr. Chairman. Now to the amended proposal of law. "Try to think of it as crazy." That is a text on a poster by Loesje, which has been haunting me since the beginning of the COOVID-19 pandemic when I see the approach of the cabinet of this pandemic. I will quote Loesje a number of times today in my speech, because I am always surprised by how Loesje manages to understandably touch the core of a public debate and encourage reflection. This is also happening at a time of crisis, even more so at a time of crisis. Mr. Chairman. In this pandemic, we are faced with the fact that there is no legal framework in place for the long term to replace the short-term inadequate legislation, with the emergency procedures of the emergency regulations. The Security Regions Act is not intended and equipped for this, nor is the Public Health Act. A legal basis for far-reaching measures is not recommended, as the cabinet in the Lower House said, but is simply a bitter legal necessity. Otherwise, measures will not stand in the hands of a judge. Mr. Chairman. But I would like to ask the Ministers immediately: why this law, in the form given in the first version in consultation? Has the cabinet only had an eye for the law technique, is my question. After all, there was already a lot of social and political discussion at that time. There was social incomprehension, displeasure and distrust towards the government and institutions such as RIVM. No matter how right or wrong that was, there were concerns, great worries. There was also unrest in parliament. Why, for example, am I asking the US Secretary of State as the first signatory to make a proposal to stir up unrest and discontent instead of dampening it? Why throw oil on the fire of a social and political discussion, instead of a fire blanket that can put out the fire? I quote: "It was not the cabinet's intention to place too much power in the cabinet." End of quote. According to the Minister of VWS in the debate in the Lower House. How is it possible that this has been interpreted differently by everyone? Has the Minister thought in advance that the discontent and unrest that has arisen could be the effect? Has he deliberately weighed this up? Or did it never occur to him that anyone outside the cabinet could see this as an attempt to assign more power to the minister? Mr. Chairman. I have another quote. "The intention of the law has always been to normalize parliamentary relations as much as possible." End of quote. According to the Minister. That is the new normal of the cabinet in parliamentary relations. What was not normal in parliamentary relations when the law was designed and given in consultation? Were there too many debates? Too often did Parliament have to be held accountable? I would like a more detailed explanation of what was lacking in parliamentary relations, which, according to the cabinet, required a recovery. What does the Minister normally think of governing for a year without the possibility of parliamentary control? In that case, as an instrument for parliament, the motion would remain, among other things, to which the Minister also regularly referred in the Lower House. On the motion as an instrument, for example in the event of the extension of the temporary law, the Minister in the Lower House said the following. I quote: "In a formal sense, a cabinet can still continue this arrangement, even if it is rejected by a majority per motion. But of course it is unwise, and sometimes also life-spanning for a cabinet, if it does so with great regularity." With great regularity. In the Minister's view, not carrying out motions is obviously fine, as long as it doesn't happen too often, because then your job will be in danger. With such a state-of-the-art attitude, the argument of a motion as an emergency brake, as a lock on the door, is completely unbelievable and can be put straight into the trash. This room has experience with that, too. Mr. Chairman. The question is why the cabinet has not opted from the outset for a legislative proposal that depoliticized and dampened social and political unrest. It is not very difficult to carry out the rhetorical duck test in advance. When the cabinet comes up with a law that not only looks like a duck, but also swims and quacks like a duck, everyone probably thinks it's a duck. Of course there will be a strong reaction to that. How surprised can you still be as a cabinet? In criminal law, in that case, you would speak of "conditional intent." Mr. Chairman. That the first version caused so much unrest is not just a matter of taking more time for consultation, as the Minister in the House of Representatives said. It's mostly a matter of wanting to listen. The signals were clearly audible in society and parliament, but if you don't want to hear them, then a longer time for consultation doesn't help either. The point is that you take opinions seriously, and not just opinions that come out well. I would like to call that "hearing understanding" and there was no need for that. There is a law that may be legally correct behind an agency, but social and politically it is completely wrong, with all the consequences of that. To talk to Loesje: "So, those were the rules, then we move on to reality." Mr. Chairman. The law given in consultation should never have been brought out like this. Even after the opinion of the Council of State, the cabinet has shown little sensitivity to criticism. However, the Council of State's legal advice was taken into account, and the parliamentary and social unrest was again misjudged and not sufficiently translated into the new version. The temporaryity of the law was forced by the opinion of the Council of State from one year to six months and the posthang was replaced by a veil. The cabinet already thought that was a big deal, as I understood from the debate in the House of Representatives. This may have taken a legal step, but there was still no sense of reality. The opinion of the Council of State should have led the cabinet to limit the duration of the law as much as possible on its own initiative and to allow maximum parliamentary control and hence involvement. In times of crisis, you need not less democracy, but more. Why didn't the Cabinet itself see this? In the end, it was the Lower House that intervened in the absence of insight from the cabinet. I shall return in a moment to the way in which that has happened and to my judgement on it. The Minister of State said the cabinet has shown learning ability. That really is the world upside down. Being flogged back by the Council of State and the House of Representatives is not a learning ability, but doing what you can't get out of. Those are really two very different things. In the end, there is now a bill for three months. From 12 months to six months to three months! The remark made by the Minister of VWS during the debate in the Lower House that "it is a good thing that the First Chamber has no right of amendment, because otherwise we would be stuck with a law of one and a half months" is a demonstration that he still does not see how wrong the administration's actions have been in this bill from the start. By the way, it also demonstrates how he apparently feels about this Chamber. Apparently, the Minister still does not see how social and parliamentary unachievable his first proposal for a year was to govern a ministerial arrangement without the authority of parliament. The same applies to his six-month proposal. We're missing the self-reflection. Maybe it's a good technical law with technocratic glasses on, but that's the only thing. And how can a law that has thus contributed to social and parliamentary unrest and discontent, however legally correct, be a good law for the acceptance of this pandemic? It takes more than technology to achieve joint action. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, has the Minister of the United States been so advanced in his understanding that he acknowledges fellow Members also asked that it might have been better if it had been otherwise, that that first version should have just left the table, that he should have listened more and that he should have come up with a version that would have approached the latest version, which is now in the pipeline? "Stand still in action is progress," to remind Loesje. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the way in which the House of Representatives has intervened in this legislative proposal. The Second Chamber arranged for itself a right of veto over the measures contained in the ministerial regulation. I'll be right back to the term "vetorecht." In my opinion, other choices could have been made, but let us not forget what prompted the House of Representatives to intervene. The cause was a lack of trust and a lack of control for parliament in the cabinet's proposal. In the opinion of the cabinet, involvement was sufficient and the cabinet did not want to know. Mr. Chairman. A year of government under ministerial regulation was apparently how the cabinet saw parliamentary relations as new parliamentary normal. But that is not normal, especially with regard to fundamental rights. And it is right that the House of Representatives has intervened. To judge the whole thing, I thought: before I find anything, let me talk to someone who certainly knows a lot more about it than I do. This became Professor Bovend'Eert of Radboud University Nijmegen, the editor of Kortmann's standard work. I'll get back to you a couple of times. Mr. Chairman. The way in which the House of Representatives amended the bill also raises some doubts. I am therefore pleased that I have asked my fellow senators for further information from the Council of State on this amended proposal of law. I have done so in particular, as I say in the direction of Mr Otten, in order to prevent us from going into a well-known non-discussion in this debate and thus wasting our valuable time and not reaching the core. Moreover, it is not unusual in the case of a far-reaching amendment to ask the Council of State if there have been any substantial changes that need to be taken into account. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State's information made a number of points clear, even though some views and conclusions are sometimes too short in my opinion, because one's own thinking does not stand still. What the Council of State at least makes clear is that the easily suggested analogy with the local emergency regulation is completely out of place. Well, then it's obvious! Mr. Chairman. The most important change in this amended proposal of law concerns the right for the House of Representatives to veto measures introduced by an amendment to the Buitenweg cum suis. I say this with emphasis, because I still do not understand why the Council of State, but also the Minister in the Lower House, is talking about the ratification of measures. There is no active ratification in this law! It is "yes, unless the House of Representatives wants to vote on it and decide otherwise whether or not to agree to it." It's not "no, unless the House of Representatives confirms it." That's not in this law! There is therefore an actual right of veto and I really do not see any right of active ratification necessary for entry into force. The Council of State seems, in my view, to be wrong in its information here too. Quote: "If the House of Representatives does not agree to the rules within the period of one week, it shall automatically cease to exist." That is what the Council of State writes on page 11 of his information, but that is simply not right. If the House of Representatives doesn't do anything in that week, the rules will simply come into force. On page 13, that error is repeated again: "The procedure provided for in the amendment requires the consent of the House of Representatives to the ministerial rules, outside the scope of the third paragraph, to take place before it can enter into force." I think that's the same mistake. If the Council of State means that not acting the House of Representatives should be seen as a ratification without which an arrangement cannot enter into force, it becomes unnecessarily complicated. Actively empowering by doing nothing; that is a very strange construction. They should have looked more closely at that. I think they're gonna miss it. If they're watching, maybe a short note can be sent to this Chamber today. I'd like to be convinced with that note that I'm completely wrong. Professor Bovend'Eert also sees it that way, but that aside. Mr. Chairman. The law states in Article 58c that it shall enter into force: "It shall not enter into force until one week after such presentation. If, within that period, the Second Chamber decides not to agree to the rules, it shall automatically lapse." That's what the law says. As far as I am concerned, therefore, there is simply an active right of veto and not a necessary ratification.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u24	I just want to make sure that I understand Mr Janssen very well. What's the difference if the House of Representatives in that week says it doesn't agree? You're talking about two things. You say it's a right of veto. In the end, however, a right of veto also prevents the measure proposed. So what's the big problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u25	The big problem is, and I recognize that, in both the examination and the opinion of the Council of State, something is being said which, in my opinion, is wrong under state law, namely that the quotes of the Council of State which I have just mentioned only allow the regulation to enter into force if the House of Representatives has actively ratified it. So it's not. Doing nothing also means ratification. I want to make that clear here, or else we're gonna get huge misunderstandings about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u26	But when the House of Representatives finally says in a debate, "we're not doing anything; go ahead with that measure," isn't that an endorsement?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u27	The House of Representatives is not about any regulation or any measure having a debate. That's the crux of this story. I have spoken to Mrs Buitenweg and she says that it may be that we in the House of Representatives want to discuss something for which we are in favour and want to vote on it, because then it is clear and we have some more transparency. I think this is a matter of state law, and I shall come back to what the Council of State has said about it in a very complicated and perhaps even incorrect form. Be clear and do not say, as the Council of State does: it does not enter into force unless it has been ratified. I just want this to be purely state-law and legal, because what it says is wrong. As it's explained, it's not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u28	Mr Dittrich, your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u29	With the figure introduced in this amendment, you can indeed have your reservations. But I'm still trying to clear up what the effect is in the end. What is the difference between "we have this measure, we look at it and eventually we let it continue" and "no, we don't want this"? One is an endorsement, I would say, and the other is using your right of veto.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u30	I'll come back later on to how this relates to the position of the Supreme Court. That is why I think it is important to make this distinction. First of all, I think it should be legally correct. If the Council of State sees things differently, if the Minister sees things differently, if I see things differently, and if Professor Bovend'Eert sees things differently, then today I want to clarify this. That's why I'm noticing this. I agree with Mr Dittrich that the effect is the same. That's why I'm saying active ratification by doing nothing... That's how the Council of State sees it. But I think it's a very strange variant. Then you could have just said purer and better: it's always "yes, unless the House of Representatives says no."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u31	Finally, Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u32	Finally. Perhaps we can agree with the idea that this should have absolutely no precedent for future legal constructions. This is a new, strange figure that was introduced in that amendment. Let us hope that it stays that way and that it does not continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u33	Mr. Janssen, you continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u34	I was talking about that endorsement. I said this is also seen by Professor Bovend'Eert. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State quickly, in my opinion too quickly, ignores the possible constitutional debate which calls for Article 89 of the Constitution, in particular paragraph 4, on this right of veto of the House of Representatives. I am talking about a discussion which is also raised by Professor Bovend'Eert on whether it is not contrary to the intention of the Constitution in relation to a ministerial arrangement. It is by its very nature constitutionally intended to be able to act quickly and flexibly. It is a discussion that will undoubtedly continue between academics. But for the time being, unlike the Council of State, I choose the line that the new right of veto of the House of Representatives is at odds with the intention of Article 89 (4) of the Constitution, namely that the Minister should be able to act quickly and flexibly. The Council of State describes Article 58c as "deviating from the current state-of-the-art practice" and further writes: "According to the more recent history, it is unusual for the House of Representatives to be given greater involvement in the adoption of delegated regulations than to the First Chamber." Deviating and unusual. In a time of crisis like this, you want security and trust and not constitutional experiments, would be my opinion. It would also have been more purer under state law to allow the cabinet, in accordance with Article 89 of the Constitution, to implement measures requiring speed and flexibility of action through a ministerial arrangement in confidence. Should this get out of hand, both chambers could still use their constitutional powers to call the cabinet to account in the interim and in good time. But then there will be a very big one, but we have to say that the first and second versions of the bill seem to have lost confidence by wanting this for too long. Therefore, the emergency brake of "trust is good, but control is better" applied to the House of Representatives. Mr. Chairman. In any event, in the opinion of the SP, the control of the parliament should be regulated in the case of a quarterly extension of the law requested by the cabinet. In my opinion, the Council of State too quickly ignores in its information the analogy with the constitutional discretion over the continuation of a legal exception by the States General. In such an exceptional situation, it is a question of restricting fundamental rights. The Council of State rightly notes that it is not possible by formal law or by rules of procedure to provide for parliamentary involvement of a united assembly. Indeed, the cases in which the States-General meet in a united meeting are fully regulated in the Constitution. That is why parliamentary involvement in the implementation of emergency legal powers, irrespective of an exceptional situation, does not take place at a unified meeting. Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, and in my opinion, there is nothing to prevent us from doing so, and I also think that this should be done in such a way that a law restricting fundamental rights and therefore acting as if it were an exceptional state of affairs. It may not be the law, but it is de facto. Confessing the right to religion and the right to assembly are also examples of fundamental rights that are now being restricted. I was pleased to read back Ton Cammelbeeck's plea in the NRC of 23 October: in the spirit and intention of Article 103 (3) of the Constitution, the right to extend fundamental rights-limiting measures belongs to the States-General, i.e. to both chambers. Since the Constitution excludes a unified assembly from the present legislative proposal, the equal can be achieved by giving both the Second and the First Chamber control over this. That would also be the time for both Chambers once every three months to assess whether the cabinet has correctly used the delegated powers and to determine whether those measures are still proportionate. In this way, in the opinion of the SP, parliamentary control should be regulated in the approach to this profound pandemic at this point. Times of crisis call for more and not less democracy; I keep repeating it. To talk to Loesje: "Why bother if you can do it together?" Mr. Chairman. I started my contribution with Loesje: "Try to think of it as crazy." The reason why this text is at the heart of the cabinet action is because a red line is gradually recognizable of being surprised and reactive. The law before us today, of course, should have been there as a framework law long before the COOVID-19 pandemic broke out. Such a law is an indispensable legal instrument in times of crisis, and could have been prepared calmly and carefully with Parliament in good times. Mr Meijer went back a hundred years in time to the Spanish flu. Let me go back a little bit shorter in time, namely ten years, to the outbreak of the Mexican flu in 2009 and the action of the government in that outbreak. It has been extensively evaluated. I refer to the Evaluation Approach New Influenza A (H1N1) by Berenschot and Crisislab, of 9 March 2011. In that evaluation of Ira Helsloot and Margreeth van Dorssen similar questions were raised, which have been playing and discussing since the beginning of this crisis and which surprises the cabinet every time. I mention a number of points from that 2011 evaluation: preparation for the pandemic, scaling up in a pandemic, preventing spread in the Netherlands, preventing spread to the Netherlands, continuity of society, closing schools, communication, intensivecare capacity. That must sound very familiar to the ears, mustn't it? That is why I reviewed the report once again with one of the authors of the evaluation, Professor Helsloot. I would like to hear from ministers what happened to the outcome and recommendations of this evaluation in 2011 and whether these authors were still asked to address this crisis. So my question is: were there any scenarios? Were there scenarios that we could have known, also in the category "try to think of it as crazy"? Have there been lessons learned from the evaluation of the Mexican flu, or are we to observe here that there was no urgency? Mr. Chairman. Effective action in the crisis is about predictability and consistency. Those are things that matter. For a long time now we have been considering how to increase predictability. We now have a roadmap that, to my surprise, had shades of colour that I had never seen before, even abroad. I think it's about fifty shades of pink now. I don't know if everyone understands this: red, green and yellow is fairly clear. These are all kinds of colors of red. I've heard all kinds of jokes about that, but I don't know if this will help. Why wasn't this put in order in the summer when we had time? Why didn't this happen afterwards, when the second wave was already rinsing all over us? Mr. Chairman. This also applies to consistency. This is also a prerequisite for effective action in crisis time. Schools, catering, nursing homes, mouth caps, protective equipment for care personnel, tests, source and contact research: I just mention a few topics. According to the Cabinet, urgent opinions should be seen as non-binding and therefore binding. But that is a semantic discussion in The Hague that also leads to misunderstanding and unrest in shops, restaurants, schools and nursing homes. Doubt all around! Cabinet, be consistent! Mr. Chairman. I still have a few brief, concrete questions. The first question concerns Article 58f (4) of the bill. That's about keeping the safe distance. However, this may be avoided by introducing hygiene measures, the use of personal protective equipment or by otherwise achieving a level of protection at least equivalent to the level of protection achieved by keeping the safe distance. I asked in writing: how? The answer was: we don't know yet, we don't have yet and we're investigating. But that means we're now giving a dead letter power of law. I don't think we should give dead letters the power of law. Such an answer surprises me, so I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Is he in favour of giving the power of law to dead letters? After all, we are also dealing with the feasibility of a law. If it is not feasible, we should not do it; perhaps at a later date, when the investigation is completed, but not now. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a specific question about Article 58c (3), which deals with the powers of urgency. Others have already brought this up. What happens, in particular, if a measure is immediately given legal force, but is withdrawn after a week or if it lapses automatically, because it is voted away by the House of Representatives? Mrs. Prins also asked about this, but from a slightly different angle. Then who pays the bill? I'm just saying: the minister decides to close the catering business, all the businesses close and a week later the House of Representatives says she doesn't think it's such a good plan and then all the catering industry opens up again. The companies would have been closed for a week. Who pays the bill at a time like this? That's actually my question. What about liability? Is the account man, as they used to say in the military service, or is the cabinet at the bar for the damage caused by it? Mr. Chairman. I come to the conclusion of my contribution. I believe that my contribution should have shown that my group is currently lacking confidence in the implementation of the far-reaching anti-fundamental measures in the hands of this VWS minister. With this bill, the First Chamber is asked to waive a certain control over the extension of this law and thus on the assessment of the proportionality of fundamental rights restrictive measures in the future. But it's just a snapshot today. The situation changes from day to day. The government is always surprised. How are we supposed to know whether our judgment is valid today and tomorrow's vote in three months' time, without any control over it? Yeah, we can talk, we can file a motion, and we can see what happens with that. We've also seen what happens with that. At the moment, however understandable, the cabinet cannot look ahead for a week and we need to know what it will be like in three months' time. It doesn't work for us. Mr. Chairman. In the Lower House, too, it was asked to give the Upper Chamber a certain control over the extension. The Minister's answer was: the cabinet is not in favour of that. In the Lower House, the Minister also said this about this: such an extension KB is then discussed with veils here in the Lower House; if we are going to make it both a Second Chamber treatment and a First Chamber treatment, you are essentially working on a full legal treatment in both Chambers every three months, and that really does not fit in with the way we should fight this crisis, I think. I find that outrageous, undemocratic and undesirable. That is precisely the way in which we must fight a crisis with each other: democratically legitimized and with each other. And we are not the cause of the delay. 13 July to 13 October this law has been dealt with in the Lower House. We'll do it in two weeks. Where's the delay? Is he with us? No. I can get really mad about that, too. This whole crisis has already shown this First Chamber to be able to act quickly, if necessary. There is therefore no reason, other than that the cabinet is not in favour of not giving this First Chamber a say. It's about fundamental rights. And then once every three months, having a debate about this, with the guardian of fundamental rights, that's too much for the cabinet. I can get really angry about that. More democracy with decisive control is indispensable in a cabinet that has shown that it does not want to. I think it is so important that this is restored, that I will also table a motion on it in the second term. But, of course, I still leave room for the cabinet to come up with a commitment on that point. Mr President, my last ten seconds, and over my time. I started with a Loesje. And despite all the anger, also about the whole process and what is ahead, I want to conclude with one more Loesje, on our way to the end of this corona crisis: "The road is long... Good! At least he'll be there!'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u35	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mrs De Boer on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the Temporary Law measures covid-19, also called the "emergency law covid-19." And let me drop the door: the GroenLinks Group welcomes the adoption of an emergency law. Contrary to what many people in the country seem to think, this law restores the approach to the corona crisis in accordance with the Constitution by giving a legal basis to the measures, and the law ensures that more democratic control can take place in relation to the application of those measures, both from the parliament and from municipal councils. Many people fear that this law will allow the VWS minister to rule by decree. This fear is, in our view, unjustified; the law simply puts an end to the rule by orders of emergency regulations by the Minister, which is no longer possible with the entry into force of this law, as the government has clearly stated in response to our questions. That's profit. The fact that the safety net clause was removed from the law through the Buitenweg amendment is also a gain. The government will be able to take only those measures explicitly mentioned in the law on the basis of this law. Any other measures will require new legislation through the Second and First Chambers. Can the government confirm that again? And can the government also confirm that the law doesn't see measures in homes, and that it is not punishable by criminal law to give your grandmother a hug when you visit her? The fact that we see the emergency law as a strong improvement over the rule of emergency regulations does not mean that we are not critical of the government's approach to the corona crisis and of the difficult way in which the necessary safeguards for a specific legal basis and better parliamentary involvement are enshrined in the law. I'll get back to you on that. However, let me begin by thanking the ministers for their comprehensive written answers to the questions we have asked about this law. And it was really answers this time that gave clarity. We have seen this differently in previous treatments in the corona crisis. Many answers were satisfactory, and on a number of points I have some additional questions. One question, which I have not asked before, but which is relevant, is precisely what the cabinet is aiming for with the corona measures. In my opinion, the fact that this objective is not always clear contributes to the resistance to the measures. A clear definition of the purpose to which the measures are used is also necessary to assess the need, proportionality and effectiveness. On the website of the RIVM is a nice infographic about the difference between the first and second wave. The first wave states that the aim of the approach was not to exceed the maximum ic capacity and to protect the vulnerable. The goal of the second wave is to maintain regular care and protect the vulnerable. Is this also the aim of the cabinet policy against which the measures must be considered? If not, what is the purpose? As the information from the RIVM shows, the target can also change. Can the cabinet promise that a changing goal will be clearly communicated to Parliament and to society, indicating the consequences for the measures? With the aforementioned Buitenweg amendment, not only was the safety net clause removed from the law. A special instrument for parliamentary control has also been added. I call it 'the right of assent of the House of Representatives with regard to the measures to be taken'. Moreover, I am very curious to hear the government's answer to the question raised by the SP, which I can only summarize as: what happens if the Lower House does nothing? The Council of State seems to assume that the measure will not proceed, while the text of the law suggests otherwise. I think it is important that there is a great deal of clarity about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u37	I think that this is the time to ask Mrs De Boer the following, because a very important amendment came in through her party in the Lower House. I just heard her say, like... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We're about to see what a safe distance is. Then there will be a KB, with a distance of 1.5 meters. If that KB is proclaimed, the obligation to comply with that 1.5 metres will apply to everyone from the moment it enters into force. The same goes for the boys on the street who want to play football and for me if I want to sit next to my daughter on a bench in the Vondelpark. Only in a few cases described in the law does that distance not apply. Any other cases we can do team sports, can we do this or that? It depends on ministerial arrangements, because it is regulated by law in such a way as to allow for an exemption from the ban under ministerial rules. But if this ministerial arrangement does not come about, what is Parliament's say?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u38	I'm about to say something about it, but I think it's also a very interesting question to ask the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u39	I put this question to the party responsible for the amendment, which says: we have reduced parliamentary control again. Then, of course, the question is as follows. Suppose we now give the green light to this law, without knowing what the minister is going to do, without knowing if he is going to come up with an exemption for all kinds of groups and without the First Chamber being able to say anything about these ministerial arrangements. So we are still giving a blank power, which would fit into a dictatorship, but not into a parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u40	I have a similar question to Mr. Nicolaï, who is not about space but about contact professions. I therefore share your concern at this point. We are going to wait for the Government's response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u41	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u42	I was working on something else. At the request of the First Chamber, the Council of State shone its light on the instrument, and the fact that it was only granted to the Second Chamber and not to the First Chamber. In short, the Council of State considers that both the instrument and its allocation to the House of Representatives alone are acceptable. A number of arguments are put forward by the Council. For the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, these arguments are not all equally convincing. For example, we would not like to say directly that the fact that the House of Representatives has more powers in the legislative process can lead us to conclude that the House of Representatives is of greater importance. Nor does the argument that the granting of a power to the Lower House alone can prevent a stalemate be convincing, since this is not an obstacle to giving equal powers to the Second and First Chambers in other situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u43	I just heard Mrs De Boer from GroenLinks rightly say that if a particular measure is taken, there must be a goal behind it. But does Mrs De Boer not agree with me that, if such an objective is set, there should also be criteria which explain that objective, in order to be able to weigh it down?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u44	I'll come back to that later, if that's all right with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u45	Excellent. Fine, I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u46	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u47	I'm trying to finish my piece on the role of the First Chamber, but I keep getting other questions. Otherwise, it's for the speed and the force of impact. Measures under the emergency law must be able to be taken quickly and can also be scaled down or withdrawn quickly, if possible. We may be able to deal with this law much faster than the House of Representatives, but given that the First Chamber only meets and votes once a week, we will not always be able to guarantee the necessary speed. Also because this Chamber retains its ordinary constitutional powers, the provision is acceptable to my group. One element where democratic control is inadequate and not yet mentioned is the power of the Minister to decide to transfer powers from the mayor back to the chairman of the security region. The government has written that it is prepared to inform the Chamber about such decisions and to consider how they can be implemented in a practical way, but that is a little too non-binding for me. Can the Government not simply promise that such decisions will be communicated to the two Chambers within two days, just as other regulations and decisions under this law will be notified within two days? Mr. Chairman. I come to the measures themselves. Much has already been said about it in the written reply. I am picking out a few points that are not quite clear to us yet or which we feel are unclear about in society. I'll start with the safe distance. The law itself states that a safe distance must be maintained outside a home. The distance is determined per AMvB. Can the government confirm that the measure must forever keep a safe distance outside the home is a restriction of fundamental rights and will therefore have to be constantly assessed for necessity, proportionality and effectiveness? And what happens if the measure of keeping the safe distance outside is no longer necessary or proportionate, but other measures based on the law, so that the law is not yet repealed? Should the government then determine the safe distance at zero or is there another option? We are also pleased that the government has indicated that the safe distance does not have to be respected by people who actually live wholly or partly at one address, so that people with a lat relationship can simply walk out of hand. With regard to safe distance, I would ask the Minister once again to explain the relationship between Article 58f and Article 58j (1) (b), the contact professions. I do not read in Article 58f that those who engage in a contact profession are exempt from keeping the safe distance. From the answer to our written questions it became unclear to me whether and how the exercise of a contact profession should be regulated. Is a scheme as referred to in Article 58j.1b also a scheme as referred to in Article 58f (4)? And is it true that, if there were no ministerial arrangements for contact professions, the practice of contact professions would automatically be prohibited under Article 58f? That is the question I was referring to by Mr Nicolaï. Article 58 (1) (a) makes it possible to have a mask outside the home. A masking obligation is a dress code that intervenes in privacy and is felt by many. Our Constitution requires that, in addition to the legal basis provided by this law, there should also be necessity and proportionality. Article 8 ECHR adds the requirement of effectiveness. In the case of a ministerial regulation imposing an obligation to speak, all these conditions will have to be explicitly addressed, according to the College of Human Rights. Can the government promise this, including in terms of effectiveness? We read the exception for those who, for medical reasons, cannot wear a mask. That's good. Is the government prepared to find a solution for the deaf and the hearing impaired, who will be severely hampered by a duty to protect their social functioning because they will no longer be able to read lips? Is it conceivable that people should be allowed to take off their mask temporarily at the request of a deaf or hearing impaired person if communication is not otherwise possible? Mr. Chairman. I would like to touch briefly on two other issues: the impact of measures and communication. And then I come to Mr Van Hattem's point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u48	You've got ten seconds for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u49	Yeah, I think that's weird. I read it at home. I don't know if he's been standing still.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u50	It's often faster at home than here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u51	Yeah, that's true. I hope you'll allow me. I've tried my best to register reluctantly, but I didn't quite manage that. And I gave an introduction. I heard that was an argument, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u52	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u53	Corona can meet us all, but not all of us. Older people, people with poor health, people with contact professions and people living close to each other are more at risk of infection or of a serious course of the disease. Often these are the people who have it more socio-economically. The measures will not have the same impact on everyone either. The Human Rights College writes on its website that the government should examine and monitor the likely consequences of the proposed measures in order to prevent discrimination and increasing inequality. Is that what the government's gonna do? And can the government undertake to take account of the impact of the measures on different groups of citizens when they are adopted and to continue to address them in the explanatory statement? Can the Government also undertake that if the work of people with contact professions is restricted, income support will also be accessible to vulnerable professions, such as sex workers, so that they are not once again excluded by compulsory opting-insystematic qualification as an employee, but not self-employed? A lot has already been said and written about the government's lack of communication in the corona crisis. Ministers, while attracting the fine rug, have not yet come up with concrete intentions to improve communication, to provide better information, to counter disinformation and thus to increase support for the approach. We read that the cabinet likes to deal with the additional communication challenge. We read that there will be a think tank of disinformation, but we also read that responsibility for combating disinformation is mainly placed outside the government. We read that the government is going to explain in the near future what the emergency law has been made for, what the law regulates and what the people notice. It says "the coming time": why hasn't this been communicated yet? We read that the government intends to provide active public sector information so that citizens can take reliable information. Why isn't there yet? Why is there no FAQ, in which the questions of all those thousands of citizens who mail us are answered? Not with single-minded death-doers, but with serious answers. Mr. Chairman. With the adoption of this emergency law, we are taking an important step in providing a legal basis required by the Constitution for the corona measures and the regulation of democratic control of them. But in restoring the crumbling support for tackling the corona crisis, the government still has a long way to go. Get to work, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u54	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. I call Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Every bird sings the way it's beaked. The same goes for the bird of the Party for the Animals. The bird is in front of you, and when it comes to talking, perhaps you would expect me to make an extensive legal argument on issues we have already discussed. Mr Janssen has already made that speech, and he is also very well-spoken in that area. So you're not gonna hear that from me. I'll talk about other things. I am going to talk today about the democratic deficit, self-mutilation and evergreens. First of all, I would like to raise another important issue. This concerns the balancing framework laid down in Article 58b of the Act. Perhaps a little legal, I say to the ministers. The aim of this article is to combat the epidemic. Accordingly, the measure should only be taken if it is necessary, in view of the seriousness of the threat to public health, to minimise and proportionate the exercise of fundamental rights. I asked the VWS Minister whether I read correctly that Article 58b states that the measure should not be taken if it has not been scientifically established that that measure will be effective. This is an important question for practical application. To my fear, his answer was: no, that cannot be inferred from that. In other words, a measure which has not been established to be appropriate to combat the epidemic can be imposed by the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The text of Article 58b has been incorporated into the law on the basis of an amendment accepted unanimously. I read in the second paragraph that powers are only applied if they are necessary in view of the seriousness of the threat to public health. It clearly says "is necessary" and not "if the Minister considers that measure appropriate." Both the judiciary and science agree that the three basic requirements of necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity also lay down the requirement of suitability. I quote Professor Janneke Gerards from her contribution to the collection The principle of proportionality of art. 3:4 Awb and European law: "To be able to speak of a proportionate decision, this decision must first of all be an effective means of achieving the objectives pursued by the decision. The requirement of fitness." I read here that the decision must first of all be an effective means. This means that if scientists find that a measure is not established that it effectively contributes to the fight against the epidemic, it must not be taken. It would then be contrary to Article 58b, second paragraph. But according to the answer to my previous written question, the Minister sees it differently. If the Minister already states that he explains Article 58b (2) in such a way that he reserves the right to take a measure that is not scientifically considered effective, then we have a problem. He then nibbles off the sharpness of the legislative text and brings everything back into his own sphere of competence, which was not the intention of the authors of the amendment. Our group wishes to make this clear. It concludes from Article 58b that freedom-limiting measures should only be applied if generally accepted scientific standards are sufficiently established that those measures will be effective. Is that right? I'd like a response from the Minister. The Minister agrees with us that consideration should be given not only to the importance of the threat to public health, but also to the importance of preventing unemployment, loneliness, damage to the living environment, learning disadvantages, greater inequality of opportunity and other general interests. However, those who read the text of Article 58b do not find this balancing framework. The text merely highlights the importance of combating the epidemic. This interest is, in principle, a priority, although the proportionality test may prevent conflicting interests from doing so. These conflicting interests are the interests of the citizens who are affected and to whom fundamental rights belong. We have received thousands of very concerned e-mails and letters from those citizens. If the exercise of the fundamental rights of those citizens is restricted, the second paragraph (c) of Article 58b states that that restriction must comply with the requirements of proportionality and subsidiarity. Thus, if the number of people allowed to come together is limited, churchgoers may hinder in their freedom of religion Article 6 of the Constitution.................................................................................................................................................... Or it may hinder demonstrators in their freedom of assembly and demonstration (Article 7 of the Constitution). The introduction of the one-and-a-half-metre society could generally restrict citizens' right to privacy, as provided for in Article 8 of the Constitution. That limitation must not be disproportionate at all times. Article 58b, second paragraph (c), deals only with the limitation of the exercise of such fundamental rights by citizens. The legal framework does not include the need to assess the importance of combating the epidemic in conjunction with other general interests which should also be addressed by the public authorities. According to the second paragraph of Article 58b (c), it is only a possible disproportionate restriction on the exercise of fundamental rights by citizens. That review framework does not require the inclusion of objectives other than the objective of combating the epidemic, such as the objective of promoting adequate employment, protection and improvement of the environment, social and cultural development and adequate and sound education, etc. Mr. Chairman. The one-dimensional character of the law is easy to illustrate. Take the requirement of 1.5 meters away and the maximum number of persons of 30 who may be present in a theatre hall. The 1.5 meter distance limits the citizen-theatre visitor in his fundamental right. Review under the conditions laid down in Article 58 (2) (c) may lead to the result that that restriction complies with the proportionality requirement. Then the trade-off is done, and rightfully. The fact that only 30 people are allowed to sit in the theatre does not affect any of the citizens' fundamental rights. Therefore, the proportionality assessment required in Article 58b (2) (c) does not relate to this. The adverse effect of the measure on the general interest of cultural development will not be taken into account in the consideration required under Article 58b. Or take students and students who are no longer able to attend physical education. If this leads to disadvantage in learning and to deterioration in the quality of education, it is not a violation of a fundamental right to which Article 58b (2) (c) refers. A disproportionate balance of interests cannot then be demonstrated. Mr. Chairman. The aim of combating the epidemic and reducing the threat to public health is the law's sole objective, whereas it is precisely to what extent that objective is justified in relation to other objectives which the public authorities should pursue in the public interest. The legal formulation used in the design creates a tunnel where other societal goals are excluded. As a result, there is no legal obligation to consider these other objectives as equivalent in principle. Mr. Chairman. In the wake of the first sudden corona wave, it was understandable that at that time the government could only think of one goal: protection of public health in a narrow sense. In the meantime, however, it is clear that such a one-dimensional tunnel legislation is not adequate and that it also increasingly encounters social resistance. In the NRC of 9 October, even the directors of the Central Planning Bureau, the Planning Office for the Environment and the Social and Cultural Planning Office called on the government to focus on more than just slowing down the corona virus and reducing direct economic damage during the corona crisis. That broader balancing framework should be laid down in this law. Mr. Chairman. One question. Does the Group of the Party of Animals think it right that Article 58b, second paragraph (c) refers exclusively to the balance of interests in relation to measures which restrict the exercise of fundamental rights by citizens? Isn't that what it says? We would like to know how the Minister sees it. And the following question: does the Minister agree with the Group of the Party of Animals that the legal framework in Article 58b is therefore too limited? Mr. Chairman. I promised to talk about self-mutilation. That's about this house. The law grants virtually blank powers to ministers who are given the power to take decisive action. In order to ensure democratic control, provisions are included which provide that what ministers wish to regulate must be submitted in advance to both chambers of the States General. The democratic accountability applies both to the Lower House and to the Upper Chamber. A government or minister is dependent on the trust of both chambers, with which it is established that, in terms of the functioning of democracy, both chambers occupy an equal place. In technical terms, there is a difference that the First Chamber does not have the right of initiative and amendment, but that does not prejudice the principle that both Chambers have an equivalent position as regards democratic accountability. Now, by agreeing to this bill, the First Chamber should accept that the democratic control introduced by the amendment in the law as a guarantee against the creation of violations of fundamental rights to be determined by ministers alone would be the sole responsibility of the House of Representatives. We in this House are therefore about to have our own power to prevent ministers from acting alone, cutting off our position of democratic control. That has never been shown in parliamentary history and we should never agree to it, as far as the Animal Party is concerned. It is not imaginable, but it is evident that other groups in the First Chamber would agree to such self-mutilation. The information provided by the Council of State does not make this any different, quite the contrary. On the contrary, it strengthens the conviction that the right granted to the Lower House in Article 58c (2) and (3) must also be granted to the Upper Chamber. The Council of State had been asked to examine the arrangements laid down in the amendment "from a legal and state point of view." He concluded that the regime was not contrary to the Constitution and that the legal figure chosen by law had been used before. The Council of State should have left it at that. However, he spoke unsolicited about the question of whether it is justifiable that only the Second Chamber should have the right of assent. Our group considers this to be very inappropriate. The conclusion of the Council of State is then incomprehensible. He pointed out that the First Chamber had no right of initiative and amendment, and that, I quote, 'incoming legislative proposals can only be adopted in full or rejected'. "In that light," the quote continues, "and in view of the speed of action to be taken," the Council of State then considers it "defendable" to restrict the First Chamber in its democratic control power. But, Mr President, if the ministerial regulation is offered in accordance with the bill, then the House of Representatives can only say yes or no. Then it is absolutely irrelevant whether the Court has the right of initiative and amendment. And if both chambers have to decide within one week, the same week, what does that do to the speed? If the House of Representatives has a right of assent for a week, then there will not be a week if the House of Representatives has to agree in the same week? The arguments of the Council of State are wrong. And that is not a good thing, especially now that many citizens are suspicious of this law. Mr. Chairman. Our group would like to hear from the Minister whether he agrees with her that if the right of assent is granted to both Chambers within the same week, there will be no unacceptable delay that would not be discussed if only the Lower House had the right to assent. I'd like a response. It can't be that the First Chamber is putting itself out of play when it comes to controlling ministerial arrangements. This creates an unacceptable democratic deficit. Mr. Chairman. I come now to another democratic deficit. I noticed that we are the only ones who have pointed this out. It's not an insignificant matter. On June 16, 2020, the Federation of Medical Specialists and the KNMG adopted a Triage Roadmap. In the final phase of the so-called black scenario, according to the script, "will be switched to triage according to considerations that lie outside the medical domain." But that triage will be carried out by doctors on the basis of non-statutory criteria, which are not medical. Our group has asked whether the Minister agrees with us that criteria for that final stage should be laid down by the government. The answer to our questions on this point does not, in the opinion of our group, give any clarity. On the one hand, the Minister seems to suggest that the definition of criteria outside the medical domain can be left to the profession, but on the other hand the Minister acknowledges that there may be a task for the legislator to clarify that there can be no triage only on the basis of age. We have two questions. If, at any point in time, ic's are full and the triage can no longer take place on the basis of medical considerations, is it not necessary in a democratic rule of law for the legislator to determine who is to be given priority on the basis of transparent and verifiable rules? And shouldn't measures covid-19 provide a basis for this in the Temporary Law? I'd like a clear answer from the Minister. And I'll continue. If that phase enters and there are no triage rules laid down by the government, isn't the expectation that patients' relatives will discuss with doctors who are self-sufficient, on the basis of non-medical considerations, refusing patients on the ic? Shouldn't there even be physical protest in hospitals if the doctors fail to convince the family of the fairness of a decision? I would also like a response from the Minister. Mr President, I come to the end of my speech. I promised I'd talk about evergreens. Minister De Jonge spoke to me about evergreens in the debate in the House of Representatives. That was in the debate with the Group of the Party of Animals. He was referring to the problem of mink. This sector is, by the way, more like a 'nevergreen'. The sector is based purely on money and pride, where defenseless animals are gassed for their fur. An amendment prohibiting the professional breeding of mink due to public health risks had broad support in the House of Representatives, but was eventually not adopted. The Minister also takes the view, when answering our group's questions in the First Chamber, that there is no need for a regulation in this law on that point, because both the Animal Health and Welfare Act and the Public Health Act would include powers that could be used to impose a breeding ban. I studied both laws and I have to conclude that the Minister is wrong. There is no provision in the Public Health Act that provides a basis for banning the keeping of mink or other animals that COVID-19 can transfer. The Animal Health and Welfare Act does not confer powers relating to the public health of humans. Combating the spread of COOVID-19 from animal to human is not a subject regulated by that law. Nor can the ban on breeding which can be imposed under Article 55 of that law be based on the importance of preventing human contamination. Other provisions of that law do not provide a basis for a breeding ban to prevent the spread of COOVID-19 to humans. Does the Minister agree with our group? If so, does he agree with us that a basis for such a breeding ban on animals that are detectable for COVID-19 or any other zoonosis with pandemic threat, which can form a reservoir for that virus and which can transfer that virus to humans, should be included in the Temporary Law measures covid-19? Mr. Chairman. The corona measures currently in force, such as the closure of hotels, the ban on team sports, etc., are based solely on risk avoidance. It is established that mink farms pose a risk for the spread of COOVID-19.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u56	Mr. Nicolaï, your speaking time...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u57	This is my last sentence. Can the Minister explain why far-reaching restrictions are imposed on restaurants, sports clubs, theatres and countless companies, not because there have been outbreaks of contamination, but simply because the Minister wants to reduce the risk of spreading, while he continues to take the view that there is no reason to close mink farms or other branches of livestock farming in the context of the corona measures immediately, where there is a demonstrable risk? I'd like a response, and I'm considering a motion on this point. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u58	I have another question for Mr Nicolaï. By the way, I largely agree with his questions about the role of the First Chamber and about triage within or outside the medical domain. The latter is the subject of my question. Do you think that triage by age is appropriate within the medical domain? Question two is, do you think it's appropriate outside the medical domain? In that sense, I would like to add some of your questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u59	Whether it can be applied within the medical domain, I would like to leave it to the doctors. Because that's within the medical domain. However, in the triage timetable, there is at some point a stage of which the doctors themselves say: we are then finished talking on medical grounds, but continue to triage on the basis of criteria that fall outside the medical domain. In some cases, age may play a role in medical grounds. I can't judge that. That has to be judged by the physician there. My question is: can we, as a parliament, accept that life and death are then decided on non-medical grounds and by others who have set criteria for this that we ourselves as a parliament have no say in?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u60	That's a good question. I also agree with the distinction you have just made. My question to you, and later in the debate to the rulers, is what the government should actually do in non-medical matters. Should the government take care of this itself, or does the government think that the doctors should make a decision? Our view is that medical practitioners go too far in this, but also that the government, setting an age criterion, also goes too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u61	If Mr. Van Rooijen tempts me to find out my personal opinion, I say: I think the only solution in such a case is lottery tickets.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u62	It's about your group's opinion in this house, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u63	I have not yet discussed the opinion of my group. We do not draw lots on this, but we decide on it jointly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u64	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u65	But we are probably both interested in a clear response from the ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u66	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u67	They're sobbing in the arms! I call Mr Recourt on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u68	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, I would like to thank the ministers and their officials for answering the many written questions. And that on such short notice! That has been done well and I very much appreciate the many technical points that have been dealt with. As far as my group is concerned, they have been adequately dealt with and I can therefore confine myself to the main issues. The Temporary Law measures covid-19 is an element in the fight against the COVID-19 virus, just like the corona app is. In my group's view, it is also a necessary element to carefully restrict fundamental rights. We agree with those who say that emergency legislation is no longer enough. The temporary law, as it now stands, strengthens democratic control, provides a range within which the measures may be taken and binds them to conditions of proportionality and subsidiarity. The concrete measures themselves are defined, discussed and monitored by lower regulation, and are less relevant here. Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear, there's still a lot unknown about the virus. The course of disease is difficult to predict, there is no vaccine and no adequate treatment to prevent a person from becoming seriously ill or dying. It is unknown what the aftermath is if someone is infected with the virus. In my group's view, measures are therefore needed to control the pressure on health care, to prevent deadly victims of the virus, to limit damage caused by the virus to others and to protect vulnerable people. Anyone who is vulnerable is not always predictable. This law helps to take the right measures for the proper duration and with the control and consent of the parliament. As a result, the government can count on a positive attitude from my group. The debate on the measures themselves can therefore take place when the measures are in place. And we in the Labour Party also have an eye for the pain of many and the diabolical dilemma of making choices about who should suffer this pain with a great deal of uncertainty. A potentially much more important element than this law in the fight against the virus is the behaviour of the inhabitants of the Netherlands. If people do not comply with the measures, the virus will continue to circulate for the time being. My group is very concerned about this. Resistance to the measures taken by this cabinet seems to have increased considerably. Existing contradictions and mistrust towards government seem to have deepened. I will not take advantage of this debate for an evaluation of the policy or behaviour of the government so far, but I will confine myself to the acceptance of this law, which seems unnecessarily affected by the government's attitude in the legislative process. The image of a government that intervenes behind the front door in people's lives created by earlier versions of this law is not adequately adjusted. Thousands of e-mails received by the members of this Chamber about this bill make that painfully clear. In answering the written questions, too, the government does not seem to recognize, unlike other legislation, that it is very important that as many people as possible should be convinced of the usefulness of the law and the measures based on it. Again, only if people adjust their behavior will measures to combat the virus have an effect. It is therefore a question of changing behaviour, where the government is mainly talking about information by making it available to everyone in such a way that it can be found. This attitude is too passive and based on yesterday's world. Opponents of the law and the measures actively organize resistance. That's their right. They are supported in this by the operation of logarithms of important information channels that strengthen scepticism and exclude contradiction. That is why I have the following questions to the Ministers. Do you share the need to bet on behavior change? Do you agree with my group that this requires more than campaigns and written information? Are there any examples of successful approaches that have succeeded in getting fierce opponents of legal measures to change their behaviour? If so, what lessons can we draw from this? If not, what is the government going to do to increase the effectiveness and support of the measures and to update the picture of the legislative proposal before us? Is the Minister of the Interior, in cooperation or not with her European colleagues, talking to social media platforms about the operation and use of logarithms? Somewhere in my text is missing: intending to talk to these platforms about the operation of logarithmmes. All this, of course, without censorship and therefore with respect for freedom of expression. But we have to stay in conversation. Mr. Chairman. I come to another subject: the Buitenweg amendment. A lot has been said about that today. Our group agrees with the intention of informing the Council of State on this issue on 22 October. A difference in position between the Second and First Chambers when agreeing to a ministerial arrangement, but while retaining constitutional powers of the First Chamber, is well-preservable. It fits in with the differences between the tasks of the two chambers, especially when it comes to measures of an urgent nature. Let us be more thoughtful here in the First Chamber and leave the topicality on the other side in this case. That puts us in a position to respond to other speakers, not empty-handed; we keep our powers. In fact, the House of Representatives is given a power that was not there before. In this context, I do have a question on Article 58c (3). What are the chances that the exception in this paragraph for urgency will become the rule in practice? Can the Minister for Health give examples of measures requiring the urgency of the procedure provided for in paragraph 3 and those which may be dealt with under paragraph 2? Will the Minister confirm that if paragraph 3 is used, there is always justification why the procedure in paragraph 2 could not be delayed? Mr. Chairman. My group is satisfied with the possibility of introducing decentralised measures. First of all, it is good that it has been recognised that the BES islands deserve their own approach, because the situation there is incomparable with the European part of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u69	I found it very interesting that Mr Recourt went into the piece of information, or wrong information, or disinformation; just give it a name. You mentioned logarithms. You found that logarithms help to form disinformation and you call on the Minister to talk to large Internet companies to do something about these logarithms, because that can help. Did I understand you correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u70	Algorithms, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u71	You heard me very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u72	You just said this isn't censorship, but it might tend to be a form of censorship if you put pressure on social media, which is actually a mailbox, to change those logarithms there to get pleasing messages. I don't know if that's a democratic thing. So I'm very disappointed to hear you call that. There is another point that is being raised: the whole policy that is now being applied, and I do not hear you talking about sanctions at the moment. Rewards aren't in the story. We all know that if you want success... If I were to run my company and punish people for everything that goes wrong, I'd be alone in that company by the end of the day. Then I'll be on my own and I won't be able to support myself. If I'm gonna make sure there's reward, in whatever form, you're gonna have a much better chance of getting people with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u73	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u74	How does the PvdA view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u75	I fully agree with you on that last point. You didn't hear me talk about maintenance either. I think this is really a very one-sided measure which has very little effect. You're gonna need it, but to have a real effect, you have to sit out front. My comments were also aimed at changing behaviour. I do not agree with Mr Van Pareren that social media platforms are letterboxes. No, my fear is right, not only here but also much wider, that people no longer speak to each other about different points of view. You get bubbles in the Netherlands in which everyone repeats and strengthens their own truth and you get more and more extreme expressions. We'll grow apart. The debate, if necessary, is no longer taking place. That's my appeal to the government. Let us make sure that social media platforms do keep the debate open, while keeping everyone's right to their own opinions and their own information. But you're not a society when everyone's in a separate bubble. That's my big fear. This applies to this law in particular because it is particularly important that people comply with measures, because the virus continues to circulate differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u76	Mr Van Pareren, your third question. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u77	In history it has never been proven that by working against new techniques... It's a fact that this is there, so learn to work with that data without going back to sticking rules. Trust doesn't come by reducing the piece of regulation again. I would like to hear that you too as a PvdA think that we should give that space to the people. Of course, we need to take measures that are necessary to tackle corona properly, but we need to respect different opinions and we need to use them so well that people will go along with it. That's behavioral science.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u78	Mr Recourt, one last comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u79	To a large extent, I agree with that. Again, this is not an argument against social media at all. They do great things. However, as with many developments, as a government and also as a parliament, you have to outline the normative frameworks. The moment you think things are going wrong and there are also negative aspects to it, you need to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u80	Just for the Acts, Mr. Van Pareren. You meant "algorithms" and not "logaritmen." That's what I'm saying for the people listening at home. Is it true that you meant "algorithms"? Yeah? Thank you. Please continue your argument, Mr. Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u81	It is good that special attention is given to the Caribbean Netherlands and that the island council is also in a position to exercise democratic control. Then the municipal councils, for the European Netherlands. They also seem to be able to take up their position in so far as local powers are used. The way in which this is done is seen by the government as a local issue in which it does not want to act. My group can justify this position when the municipal councils are well informed about their position. The question is whether this will work itself out; we fear not. The question is whether the government is prepared to take on this information and ensure that others, such as the UNG, do so. The accountability introduced by the law by the regional mayor is very thin, because there are no powers for the city council. On our questions, it was said that we are still examining how to strengthen it. I appreciate that. One more question on this point. In the same answers, the government writes that through the King's commissioner, the city council can complain to the Minister of Justice and Security if the city council is dissatisfied with the way in which the president of the security region is responsible to the local government. But where does that lead? So what exactly is the Minister of Justice and Security going to do? Mr. Chairman. I have another question about the professions for which the minimum age cannot be maintained. My group does not believe that the answer to the question of how it is determined which professions are involved is convincing. Some professions are incorporated into the law. Others, such as teachers in special education, are included in the ministerial scheme. My group fears that this may lead to confusion. How is it determined which professions are covered by the law and which are covered by the ministerial rules? Does the position of these professions differ? What does this mean, for example, for an employer? What can this employer expect and demand from his employees? I would like to thank the Minister for Health for the comprehensive answer to our questions on care. We consider the possibility of providing tailor-made services, for example when it comes to the balance of interest between visit and prevention, to be positive. The professionalism of healthcare professionals is rightly trusted. On the other hand, this places a great responsibility on the individual care providers and the institutions in which they work. I hope and expect the Minister to back up these professionals in case they come under fire. Can the Minister confirm that? Because we already hear examples of this in practice. And I mean examples of being under fire. Customisation can also mean that additional measures need to be taken to give a patient more freedom to protect third parties. We still have a few questions on this point. They are mainly about the way things are going in long-term care. More and more people are hearing that the infections of residents and employees in this second wave are increasing not only in the care of the elderly, but also in the care of the disabled. The government indicates that these institutions do not carry out contact investigations themselves, but that is not in line with daily practice. GGDs indicate that they do not have time for contact research in health care institutions and care institutions can do nothing to prevent further contamination except to identify all contacts as soon as possible and, where relevant, to ensure that those residents and employees go into preventive isolation and are tested if necessary. Can the Minister indicate what health care institutions are allowed to ask for? What data may they request and record? If the government believes that institutions should not carry out a source and contact investigation themselves, can the Minister promise that the GGDs will always take care of the source and, above all, the contact investigation within a few hours of an infection in an institution? The continuity of care in the institutions in long-term care was already under pressure due to staff shortages. With the increasing number of infections, that has only gotten worse. Closing homes is not an option. People in care for the elderly live for months in a care institution and people in care for the disabled live there for decades. In this light, the Labour Party's group wonders how far care institutions can go with wishes and requests from clients' relatives. The bill is clear: visitation should be possible. That is a good principle. Usually that goes well, but as in society as a whole there are also relatives of clients who do not support the bill that we are discussing today, and who think all preventive measures are bullshit. How far can institutions go if, for example, visitors refuse to wash hands, wear masks or keep 1.5 meters away from other residents? For example, can they refuse access to these visitors and, if so, on what grounds? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. This law, with all the amendments adopted, could be seen as an example of layered and successful co-legislation. In the light of what I have already said about the support for the measures, I do not think this is the case. The focus is too long on urgency and effectiveness and too little on democratic control and proportionality. This has now been substantially restored. Our main concern now lies in the creation of a basis for proper understanding of the law and, ultimately, in compliance with the measures. After all, it is all about getting the control virus under control together so that we can all live in freedom again in our own way. We look forward to that, as well as to the response of the ministers, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u82	Thank you, Mr Recourt. I call Mr Gerbrandy on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Independent Senate Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Five minutes for such an important law. Many things have been said. "Temporary Law Measures." Few will deny that there is a serious problem in the world. Some are, but few are happy. We see that our society is completely dislocated. Health care I am not going to mention the examples, which we all know about education, economics... Dramatic. We all want, as we sit here, a solid, good, quick solution. You can say all kinds of things in law, and that's good too, reflection, but we want a solution. Emergency regulations first. I think it's a good thing that it comes into a legal framework now, a temporary law. And, ladies and gentlemen, the aim is not to hinder the fundamental rights of people. The goal is to solve this problem. I'll keep that in mind. And sometimes you have to temporarily limit fundamental rights. The history of this law was not good. Advisers have said that this cannot be done for a year or six months. It's been three months. From here I congratulate the House of Representatives for the great work and good work they have done with the amendments. And I have already said that I can agree to that. The House of Representatives approved new measures in advance, fine. Fine. Fine. Fine. And now he comes: the Buitenweg amendment, which only the House of Representatives is concerned about. Mr Otten, the Otten Party and the OSF, are in a special position: we are not present in the House of Representatives. So when reading this amendment, there was surprise. I am therefore pleased that questions have been put to the Council of State on the initiative of the SP. The Council of State says: unusual, but state-law in order. Well, you can take that. It's an advice or not, but they're writing us that. I take that seriously. The rights of the First Chamber are not affected: motions, questions, and we can approve or reject the law. Anyone who speaks here today and says "this law is nothing; condemns that law"... I say pass that law. And why does that law need to be passed? People, it has been said several times here: there is a problem in the Netherlands. We must tackle this now, decisively and with speed. And the late Alderman Schaefer said "in meetings, you don't fight a virus" free to him. The law of execution. I'd like to give the Cabinet two things, but you've heard more. Think about the communication, the support. That didn't go well in the past. Clear, clear, with one mouth, and on time. And the enforcement: "with treaty" - it will be a frisism, I think - so I ask you. But where the law is deliberately broken, intervene. We've seen on television that young people are willingly doing things, and then only the disk jockey gets a fine. I think there should be more action, because it is deliberate. But with a treaty. I vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u84	Thank you, Mr. Gerbrandy. I call Mr Verkerk on behalf of the Christian Union. Strictly speaking, I must say 'on behalf of the Christian Union'. Let's get out of my way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u85	Mr. Chairman. Our group is impressed by the many e-mails and calls it has received from the beginning of July. Some of them were very personal, with a lot of emotion. Others were characterized by standard formulations. And others were noticed by suspicions, dangerous frames and less beautiful language. Let me start at the beginning: why are we doing all this? This debate is about the availability of sufficient care, sufficient hospital beds and sufficient ic-capacity. And it is also about maintaining social and economic infrastructure, and giving perspective in uncertain times. The EESC welcomes the fact that the current law will put an end to the use of emergency regulations. The Christian Union Group is pleased that the bill has been substantially amended during the examination in the Lower House: democratic control has been considerably strengthened and the restrictions on fundamental freedoms have been given a legal basis. The Christian Union Group is also particularly satisfied with the information provided by the Council of State on the Buitenweg and Others amendment. of 22 October 2020. This information puts the said amendment in the light of the whole of the law and thus gives an idea of the whole. In its contribution, our group wishes to confine itself to two issues, briefly worded: the quality of the law and disinformation. Mr. Chairman. Canadian writer Margaret Atwood, who has become familiar with her book The Handmaid's Tale, has written a science fiction book about the distant future. It consists of three parts: Oryx and Crake, The Year of the Flood and MaddAddam. In the Dutch translation it is more than 1,200 pages. Atwood outlines a future in which the neoliberal world order has fully developed. It appears to be a future characterized by unfreedom, great social contradictions and global warming. A future with absolute power for business and an absent government. Why am I telling this story? The reason is that in this book, almost the entire population dies of a virus. I won't tell you the plot. That would only give rise to new conspiracy theories. I would like to raise one point. Atwood sketches a hyperneoliberal society, a society in which the absolute freedom of the market leads to total unfreedom of the citizen, with all the consequences. Fortunately, this kind of hyperneoliberal opinion is not reflected in the liberal tradition in the Netherlands. I am therefore pleased to quote the words of Mr Dijkhoff, chairman of the VVD Group, during the General Reviews. "We can't live in this beautiful country without a strong government." These words could have been taken from the election programme of the Christian Union. Mr. Chairman. Next Saturday it will be October 31st. Many Dutch celebrate Reformation or Reform Day. In political terms, most parties in this Chamber are children of the Reformation. It was precisely the Reformation that advocated a separation between the Church and the State, a separation that took shape in our Constitution. It was the Reformation that again preached the equality of people. In this way, values such as justice and justice, freedom and peace, equality and solidarity, and care for each other again gained meaning. I must admit that with the rise of modernity these values were increasingly based on human reason. Among other things, I refer to the philosopher Kant. Mr. Chairman. This far too short sketch of history shows that a strong government is driven, but is also supported by values such as justice and justice, freedom and peace, equality and solidarity, and care for each other. This should also apply to the Temporary Law measures covid-19. In the debate in the Lower House much has been said about the history of this law. My party mate Van der Graaf kindly formulated it: "The law that is before us today comes a long way. The consultation version of the law circulating on the Internet offered too many opportunities for the government to intervene, even beyond the front door, and insufficient protection of our fundamental rights." Four coalition parties and four opposition parties were needed to better protect fundamental rights and strengthen democratic control. I thank these opposition parties for their critical and constructive attitude. In the debate, the cabinet was challenged to reflect on the legislative process. Minister De Jonge spoke of "the intention to normalize relations with parliament and normalize control relations." He also talked about moving insight. Minister Ollongren used the words "learning ability." Our group understands the use of such words. Nor does it doubt the intention of the ministers. Yet we think there is more to it. In this context, I would like to refer to the thinking of the Dutch philosopher Herman Dooyeweerd, who was originally a lawyer. The ministers of the CDA house should know this philosopher. He was one of the first directors of the Kuyper Foundation, the scientific bureau of the ARP. In the vision of Dooyeweerd, this foundation had to do sunk scientific work. As a result of this sunken scientific work, he paid a great deal of attention to the dynamics between motivation control and freedom. At the heart of his argument is that if you do not understand this dynamic, the balance between it will also create a harmful dynamic. In practical terms, if the government sits on the seat of control, the freedom of the citizen will be compromised. And if she sits on the seat of freedom, she loses all control. Mr. Chairman. The whole dynamic between control and freedom is reflected in the history of this law. We see them in the debate in the Lower House and we also see them in the emotions in society. That's why we get so many disturbing e-mails. I'm already over 10,000. The public feels that the government is sitting on the seat of control and that their freedom is being lost. What he or she sees as the highlight of freedom is taken away by the government in their perception. There is mistrust towards the government. That brings me to the question: what action does the government have to deal with this mistrust? I am not going to work this out, because Mr Recourt has said all this correctly. Back to Dooyeweerd. Could it be that the crisis has put the government in the grip of control, putting pressure on constitutional freedoms? Could it be that because of the crisis the Minister felt so responsible and wanted to act so strongly that the need for democratic controls was overlooked? But also in the role of parliament. Could it be that Parliament has driven this dynamic by hammering the anvil of decisive intervention? Mr. Chairman. Laws are products of systems. Our question is therefore: would the Minister like to reflect on this tension between freedom and control? A tension which is particularly apparent when it comes to protecting the citizen, but also about the freedom of the citizen, when it comes to the power of the government, but also about the control of the government. All essential values in our democratic society and in our rule of law. This dynamic between control and freedom has also been co-founded or discussed in his book De wet as a work of art by former senator Willem Witteveen of the Labour Party. He based himself in particular on the thought of the philosopher Foucault. Is this law a work of art? Does he do justice to all those fundamental values I have mentioned before? Our group believes that, thanks to the opinions of the Council of State and also to the many amendments adopted in the House of Representatives, the balance between these values has been restored to a great extent. However, we still see the dominance of the motive of control, for example about parliamentary involvement in the extension of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u86	I thought it was a very nice speech by Mr. Verkerk about freedom versus control. He actually asks: hasn't the cabinet been too much on the side of control? I wonder if the big problem is not the fact that the cabinet has been over-wavering between freedom and control. It has not always been clear whether we were talking about freedom or control, by taking measures and pointing to our own responsibility, rather than making it clear: here we are talking about control and here we are talking about freedom. Isn't making the diffuse the big problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u87	Thank you for your question. In my story, I have so far focused on the legislation and the motives for making it. You indicate how the legislation has been transposed into measures and how it has been communicated. Then it might be that your analysis is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u88	I have listened with great interest to Mr Verkerk's speech, but I always do, because he always comes up with very good stories and good insights. In that dynamic you're talking about, I know a lot. Actually, you were also talking about some kind of cramp. I understood from your words that the government may have been shot into some kind of cramp and that it has been shot out of balance. I spoke in my speech about the one-dimensional nature of this law. In fact, there is only one goal, the fight against that epidemic, while all other societal goals have been lost out of sight. Does your group agree with me that this is also a sign of cramping and that we need to move towards a broader balancing framework?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u89	In principle, I could agree with you, but why did I use this image? Because there is also a crisis. What happens in a crisis? I've been a manager myself. At a time like this, you only have one attitude, one attitude: I have to control that crisis. I'm not just addressing the cabinet, I'm talking about the system. This also means, in my humble view and in the view of our group, that Parliament should also look in the mirror to see if it has perhaps promoted this dynamic and thereby the control character.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u90	I can also tell by the dynamics of your body what you mean by shooting into a cramp. Actually, that's what you were talking about. My question is: isn't that cramp also recognizable by the fact that only one thing has been looked at? I said that myself. At the beginning of the first wave there were such horrible things that you could only do one thing. But now we're finally gonna think a little bit and we're gonna get a lot more information. Isn't it time to get a grip on that broader balancing framework? I referred to all those people from the planning agencies who started that. We should have more control over it in the law, but also in the way we feel about it in Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u91	Yes, I think you're making an important point. The Group of the Party of Animals has been one of the few political groups that has raised this aspect extensively in the House of Representatives. I thought it was very useful that they raised this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u92	You said earlier today that we are in the top five of the care. I imagine that's a big blow to the caregivers, because they see that they have to adjust all the sails to provide the care they need. We have delayed care, because care can no longer continue. People are in distress. What do you mean, top five? It was a kind of reassuring statement from you: boys, it is good in the Netherlands. But we know it's not right. Germany is five times bigger, but has five times less problems in the field of corona. How do you view that as a Christian Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u93	I said this in an interruption with Mr Van Hattem, who complained about my words about the situation in the care sector. I only wanted to refer to scientific reviews about accessibility of care, quality of care and so on, in which the Netherlands ranks in the top five. If Mr van Hattem gives a number of examples that do not reveal this, then this is not a rebuttal of such fundamental or very serious scientific research. In every country where there are so many corona patients, health care is currently cracking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u94	Do you know what year that research was that you just mentioned, that top five research?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u95	The last time I looked at this, it was like three years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u96	Mr Van Pareren, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u97	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u98	Oh, I thought you were done. Third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u99	You have just spoken of disinformation in this whole. Do you mean, for example, that the NOS provides one-sided information?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u100	I'm going to say something about that now. I come to my second theme: disinformation. In 2010 Naomi Oreskes and Erik Conway published the book "Merchants of Doubt. How a Handful of Scientists Obscured the Truth on Issues from Tobacco Smoke to Global Warming." This year David Michaels, a public health professor, published the book "The Triumph of Doubt. Dark Money and the Science of Deception." These books show how renowned scientists develop into merchants in doubt. They show what their strategy is and why it's so influential. The core of their approach is: say that there is nothing wrong, say that there is no scientific evidence, or produce articles or videos that may seem scientific, but cannot resist the test of scientific criticism. That's what's happening now. I am glad that the Ministers have taken note of this. They rightly say that the government does not have a direct role here, but that science and journalism should take that up. I agree. I'll limit myself to the role of science. Science has its own dynamics, especially in situations where a new virus roams around whose properties we hardly know yet. Situations where it is not always clear what a fact is and what a hypothesis is. Situations where there are also differences of understanding between scientists. That's normal. Then it is necessary that science should be able to be as independent as possible. In terms of Article 58f of this Act: at a safe distance from business and at a safe distance from politics and policies. Our group's question is whether the Minister, I think, is a question for the Minister of the Interior, in particular, recognizes the importance of combating disinformation? Does the Minister recognize that for the Dutch language area, to which I now confine myself, this fight should be intensified? Does the Minister recognise that the articulation of the scientific debate, the search for scientific consensus and the identification of scientific controversy can combat disinformation? The recent WRR report on the crisis talks about "power in science." Would the Minister consider possible solutions for achieving this counter-power in science? Would he like to make an effort to encourage and facilitate its development? Can the Minister make a commitment on this point? Mr. Chairman. Margaret Atwood offers no hope in her trilogy. Hyperneoliberalism, that's her message, breaks all hope. However, this law gives the government a legal basis to act. And action also gives hope. Our group can defend a certain limitation of fundamental rights with a view to caring for vulnerable and non-vulnerable people. Medical care must be available to every citizen. Finally. Our group would like to encourage the cabinet and the ministers. Your responsibility is great. It is easier to criticize from this cathedral than to develop good policies from your cathedral. In a good democracy both are needed. Your work is carried by the prayer of many Christians and many churches. A prayer means a great commitment of these Christians and these churches and also respect for your task and your function. We look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u101	Don't worry, Mr. Verkerk. Finally, Mr Otten, on behalf of the Otten Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u102	Mr. Chairman. We are here in the First Chamber today witnessing a strong piece of administrative panic football. This emergency law, the Temporary Law measures covid-19, is necessary for the balance between force and democracy between the representatives of the once liberal and once forceful VVD this morning, as if these two matters were mutually exclusive. The confidence of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy and its own strength is apparently not very great anymore, I note. The CDA makes it even more colourful if possible. Mrs Mudderaar has the attitude: it's crisis, so do whatever you want; we're fine with everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u103	The senator's name is Mrs. Prince.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u104	Excuse me, I meant Mrs. Prince-Modern. Mr. Chairman. We regularly hear pleas for the abolition of the First Chamber. When I hear today's debate, those arguments are almost superfluous. The First Chamber is already busy making itself redundant more and more quickly. The process of democratic self-destruction of the First Chamber has been going on for some time now. I have pointed this out many times in the past year, both in chambers and in public, including the outbreak of the corona crisis at the beginning of this year, when the Council of State suddenly decided whether to close the First Chamber, in accordance with the wishes of certain political groups. As a group, we have strongly opposed this. Successfully, because the First Chamber soon went back to physical meetings in the Knight's Room. With the debate on the digital quorum, which our group is opposed to, it is from the same sheet and has once again followed the State Council. All of us here in the First Chamber were elected as representatives of the Dutch electorate. Those voters rightly expect us to stand up for them and not continue to marginalise ourselves as a First Chamber by devoting difficult issues to the unelected Council of State, which further strengthens all kinds of self-filling prophecy. A First Chamber that cannot defend its own rights undermines its own right to exist. Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis has been in full swing around the world for almost ten months now. The Netherlands is still in the old polder-, paps and wet keeping, rules reflex. The administrative garden, where Jan and alleman, elected or unelected, only shouts all day, must now be raked with this emergency law. Then everything will be fine, according to this cabinet. Wishful thinking, the English call it. Wishful thinking. But that's not how it works, of course. It seems that Dutch politics is unable to act decisively and with foresight and thinks, with a lot of rules and arbitrary emergency powers for ministers, to micromanage this corona crisis by means of an emergency law with temporary measures. Temporary measures often take the longest, as we know from the past. Let us look back at what temporary laws have been introduced in crisis situations. I shall begin with the introduction of the payroll tax. It was proclaimed by the German occupying forces on 14 December 1940 by the Decree on payroll tax in the regulations for the occupied Dutch territory. In the meantime, we are 80 years ahead, and the payroll tax still exists. I also mention the dismissal permit. Minister Grapperhaus is undoubtedly very familiar with this as a labour law expert. This dismissal permit was introduced in 1940 by the German occupying forces and acquired in 1945 by Prime Minister Drees in the BBA, the Extraordinary Decision on Employment Relations. This Decision remained in force for more than 70 years, namely until July 2015. Mr. Chairman. Let me mention the Law on Economic Crimes. It also originated in the occupation time. In the meantime, we are 80 years ahead and this emergency legislation is still in force. Mr. Chairman. I would just like to cite these examples as an illustration of how temporary measures are introduced in time of war or crisis, which can then, in practice, remain in force for many decades, or much longer. Fortunately, the situation is not comparable to the Second World War, but the examples illustrate how long temporary measures can remain in force. Temporary measures take the longest, as you can see. We fear that this can also be done with this emergency law. All these extra powers are good to have, the minister thinks, or thinks his successors, whoever they may be. That's what happened with the payroll tax, the BBA and the WED. Many people share these concerns. Like other senators, I get a lot of e-mails. The last stand, like I just saw on my phone, was 14,000 in the last two days. Actually, every second about a ping went off in my e-mail. So there are a lot of people very worried about this temporary law. Mr. Chairman. The whole process of fixing this emergency law reminds us of a student who doesn't want to start his homework, but rather spends hours putting away his pens, shutting down his phone and making endless homework schedules of what has to be done to determine what to do now, namely to get to work and fight the virus as effectively as possible. This can be done by getting tests in order, scaling up care and convincing the public in a fair and transparent way of the need for action. Mr. Chairman. The Rutte cabinet lost the battle this summer. CDA's freshly elected list-taker, Hugo de Jonge, packed his suitcases instead of scaling up the test policy, arranging intensivecarebeds and training extra ic nurses, which means that once again ic patients have to emigrate to Germany. Enforcement policy was also seriously undermined this summer, especially by the man who is ultimately responsible for it. Unfortunately, enforcement has become unbelievable because of Minister Grapperhaus' nefarious plan to have a wedding party this summer. I happened to be sitting on the front page of De Telegraaf that Friday evening in August, when the Minister's hug photos appeared in Amsterdam nicely at a table on the Spui. I was real-time witnessing how the boas immediately lost their authority that night, when they wanted to call a few people to order. "Grapperhaus doesn't do it either. Fuck you!', the boas were shouted at. The rest of the people in this civilized company, who by the way followed the rules, clearly expressed their agreement with this displeasure towards the boas. Maintaining is of course also a matter of leading by example, and the right tone from the top. As far as we are concerned, it would have been better if the Minister had resigned. That would probably have had more effect on the fight against corona than this emergency law will ever have. And how will the Dutch police maintain this, these provisions in the emergency law? Like the healthcare sector, the police have been emasculated by the Rutte Cabinets for many years. Tens of thousands of agents retire within three or four years and the training capacity cannot keep up with this, far from it. What's the Minister gonna do about it? Betting the army, as some suggested? Or is everything tolerated and this law becomes a dead letter in practice? First, the panacea of the Corona app was presented to us by Minister De Jonge. That would make the problems manageable. Countries like Germany had such an app for months and we didn't need endless stuff about app laws for that. Speaking of which, I have the following question to the Minister of Health: how often has the app been downloaded so far? Can he also indicate how many people have removed it again? Several technicians have promised me that the Minister should be able to see this very easily. Why is the Netherlands doing so badly compared to other countries, such as Germany? Perhaps this is because other countries do not have such an idiotic health system, where no one is in charge, but where tens of billions of people have been hung up on health insurance companies and where it has not been possible to arrange a health bonus after six months. This emergency law doesn't change anything about that either. This law will not solve the core of the problem. At the heart of the problem is that we have politicians who cannot look forward and do not just do what is necessary. These politicians unnecessarily confuse the population with a kind of micromanagement of ever-changing rules, where no one can tie a rope anymore and which leads to the current chaos. What Minister De Jonge should have done a long time ago is to put in place an emergency law to put in place the tens of billions of euros deposited with health insurance companies in order to quickly get the care in order. At least that's what's going on. As has been said, even the health bonus has not yet been paid out. Everything gets bogged down in fights and administrative whining. We see a minister who is unable to act outside this administrative circus, in which he grew up himself, and to forcefully turn things into his own hands. Mr. Chairman. I'm on the law. It has already been recalled: we believe that the Council of State has misinterpreted the provision of Article 58c of the Temporary Law in its opinion, which we consider unnecessary. The law says in Article 58c: "The ministerial arrangement shall not enter into force until one week after submission. If, within that period, the Second Chamber decides not to agree to the rules, it shall automatically lapse." In other words, if the House of Representatives does not act, the emergency regulation will apply. However, the Council of State makes this clear: if the House of Representatives does not agree to the regulation within a week, it shall automatically lapse. That is an incorrect presentation of cases by the Council of State. This has also been mentioned earlier by a number of other groups. This is all the more reason to take the lead as a First Chamber itself. That's why I'm filing the next motion. Mr President, if you don't mind, I'll read it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u105	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u106	The motion was also tabled by my colleague, Mr De Vries. The President shall: Mr Otten and Mr De Vries tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Temporary Law gives far-reaching powers to the Government which may infringe the fundamental rights of citizens, measures covid-19 (hereinafter referred to as the "Wealth Act');]] [[Whereas Article 58c of the Emergency Law provides for the adoption of ministerial regulations with far-reaching implications for citizens without the relevant involvement of the Supreme Court;]] [[Considering that the Vice-President of the Council of State misinterprets the provision in Article 58c of the Emergency Act in his letter of 22 October 2020 to the President of the First Chamber;]] [[calls on the Government to find a solution in the short term to ensure that the role of the First Chamber is adequately guaranteed in the agreement of the Ministerial Regulations under the Emergency Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35526-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u107	I see I'm still well within time. I would like to conclude with a heartfelt advice to the cabinet. By way of exception, I do so with a Latin spell, which, if it is right, has taught every first-year law student and which I would nevertheless like to give to the cabinet in this difficult discussion about the emergency law and the corona crisis. At least I had to learn this spell in my first year. The spell is: salus populi suprema lex esto; the welfare of the people must be the highest law. I'd like to pass that on to the Cabinet. I'd say take advantage of it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u108	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u109	I give the floor to the government, to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u110	Mr. Chairman. First of all, it's a little unusual that I open as a non-first signatory. I would like to apologize in advance for that. I hope you don't mind that I apologize in between for going to the Security Council. I'll be back after that. It is in Utrecht and in view of the situation at the moment, the urgent request I am present as a permanent point of contact of the cabinet. I hope I can count on your understanding. On the way back and forth in the car, I will join the debate as it is taking place here. I can therefore immediately hear what you have to say about me in my absence. Mr. Chairman. Less than two weeks ago, the House of Representatives adopted the proposal of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. The Minister of VWS will devote more detailed reflections to the formation and backgrounds of the law itself. If you do not point that out to me, I would like, through you, Mr President, to express great admiration to your Chamber. You have examined the proposal in 13 days and put over 300 written questions. In street language, which I have known better as Minister of Security in recent years, you should say "respect." Mr. Chairman. In addition, the Council of State has been asked for an opinion. That too has come and that has given us a first positive report, which I say only carefully, the review of the bill, as adopted by the House of Representatives. That is why we are here today, of course, in favour of a balanced bill. It is balanced, because it really came about in a close collaboration, or discussion, or what you want to call it, with a large majority in the House of Representatives. It also produced good opinions, including opinions delivered by the Council of State in June. We need it, because we have a very dangerous virus and we need it with each other, i.e. in society, but also here as legislators, in a good way. This will require a decisive fight and this balanced law will also be needed. I will deal with a number of questions that have been raised. These questions concern the issues of religion and philosophy, the security regions, and last but certainly not least enforcement. Finally, I would like to give the member of the Christian Union a little reflection on Professor Dooyeweerd. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with religion and philosophy. That is a fundamental issue. That is the domain of my colleague from the Interior, but I am also the Minister for the Service of Honor. As such, I am responsible and accountable for the free exercise of the right of religion and belief in our country, including the celebrations associated with it. This role has, of course, been given a special role over the last seven or eight months. We must realise that Article 6 of the Constitution, freedom of religion, is a fundamental right that weighs heavily in our society, as all classical fundamental rights really do. This means that we really want the freedom of religion or belief in our country to go as far as possible. This is demonstrated by the fact that in our regulations, even in the coordination laws which have already been discussed today, there is still a circle around the practice of religion in these state-of-the-art situations. Mr. Chairman. We have a virus that leaves nothing to be desired and therefore not to such a fundamental fundamental right or to the kind of building in which it roams. That means it's been a quest to handle it well over the past few months. It was also a search for how the legal provisions in this area could be designed in such a way that we still do justice to that freedom of religion. I am of the opinion, and with me a large part of the House of Representatives, that that really is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u111	May I ask for some silence in the back room?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u112	That reminds me, Chairman, of a president of a court who always talked right through the lawyer. Then at some point an older advocate held that only if you have a lot of years on the counter in the middle of a plea his mouth. When the president said, "Go quietly, continue quietly," this elder advocate replied, "Excuse me, I thought I was disturbing you." Anyway, so much for anecdotics. Now the reality. Mr Van Dijk asked a question about the customization of the churches. His question whether we continue to look for customization for those meetings of larger ecclesiastical communities is highly justified. When the winds of public opinion rise, does this minister stand for constitutional protection? Let me just say that from the beginning I've really been looking for how we can do this in such a way. By the way, I did so with all the tastes and not just with the churches. We are also talking about the Muslim communities, the Hindus, the Jewish community and the humanists. And what did they come up with? It is good to stress once again that this is not really a law, but that the outcome was that the religious and philosophical communities have said: we are always going to focus on the measures imposed on society on a voluntary basis in our buildings. Mr. Chairman. This means that, when we had to put a ban on meetings in March, we said: we must exclude churches and so on because of the freedom of religion, but keep a figure of 30. They volunteered to say: no, we are going to go all the way to digital celebrations. And Mr Van Dijk knows that it is precisely that faith or that philosophy of life that is so important for a lot of people at a time of great fear and uncertainty, whether it is about contamination or losing your job because everything closes or whatever. But we have seen that these communities themselves have taken the initiative. I will continue to talk to the various umbrella organisations about this with great frequency to see what is needed in the longer term for the churches and other religious organisations. It is also about the interpretation of customization. I shall come to Mr Van Pareren's question in a moment. He asked, "Why does it have to be with a small room, and this and that?" I'll get back to you on that. In any case, the communities themselves come together with what they call "a communiqué." Any religious or philosophical community can subscribe to that. And that communiqué contains the declaration 'we are focusing on the measures' or 'we are doing this or that extra'. I am not going to go into that further, because you have all been able to read this, but the bill does, of course, contain provisions for outside buildings. But within the buildings, of course, the General Act on entry will continue to apply. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Pareren's question was: why should there be as many people in a small theatre as in a colossal church? The point is, of course, that that church has also taken all measures to comply with the corona rules. Those theatres and the halls have a maximum number of 30 visitors. This does not apply to churches as a mandatory measure, because then I come to Article 6. In that respect, therefore, churches have a better position than theaters, one might say. In the meantime, we've made those arrangements to maximize that. It's hard for a lot of industries to buy, because they're doing their best. Excuse me, of course, I don't want to mention the churches as an industry. It is difficult for religious communities too, because they are doing their best. I was in Barneveld in that very big church. There's 3,000 people in there. In such a difficult period, very few people are allowed in or it must all be digital. That is because we say very clearly: it is also about limiting group sizes and limiting travel movements. If you do that well, you should unfortunately have to do the same for the hospitality industry; many companies really do their best and live those 1.5 meters and the hygiene rules say well anyway: in order to prevent the spread of the virus we also need to close more business with you for the time being. Ventilation helps to prevent respiratory infections and contributes to a pleasant indoor climate. But science says that it is not yet known to what extent ventilation contributes to the spread of COOVID-19. There are also other measures in force, such as keeping away, working at home, avoiding crowds and applying sneezing and cough hygiene which reduce the risk of transfer via aerosols. However, at present RIVM does not recommend any additional measures to comply with the pre-covid regulations and guidelines on ventilation. So much for the part about the churches. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the questions about the security regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u113	Mr Van Pareren has another supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u114	I would like to continue on this subject. You state that there are agreements on the services of honor. However, there is a need for certain church societies to come together, with all precautions, in a somewhat larger group. This supports and gives them strength as regards the preservation of their lives with a religious belief. You say, as far as ventilation is concerned, I got the message from the RIVM that it's not. We've had that before from RIVM. At first it was also said about mouth caps: they are completely useless; they do not do anything at all. Passing insight has also arisen in them. They say: it works, because it is soon, when the law is passed, even an obligation. Don't you expect the same with the ventilation? This has been discussed for a long time. I believe that even now there is a ventilation manager for all schools to ensure that there is good ventilation for all pupils. Then don't you think it's too short a turn to... Besides science, it's also logic that plays along.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u115	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u116	So the question is: do we slow down some possibilities?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u117	It is a good thing that Mr Van Pareren calls the term 'progressive insight', because that is the leitmotiv in the fog in which we sail. The next point is that we are now the three of us, but basically I mean the cabinet as a whole are captains on a ship. If there's a lot of fog and you still want to go into the safe haven, you have to focus on the warehouse in a consistent way. We have an excellent pilot, let me put that in front of us, which is consistent in informing us and taking us on board in the latest scientific insights. As a cabinet with the Red Team, we have also said very clearly: good counter-sound must be possible. However, we note that the pilots we have, the OMT and RIVM, are very consistent and scientific in their approach. The complicated thing about sailing in the fog is that you finally have to steer on to what is scientifically established by now. So you have not heard me say that ventilation does not have a certain contribution as a whole. You have still not heard me say this either, and I am not going to say that, in the context of the advances in scientific knowledge, no new things could come up, but I do think that the cabinet will continue to follow the line of our pilots very consistently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u118	Mr. Van Pareren, one final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u119	I think it's a nice equation. As you may know, not only does a warehouse depend on its own eyes and its knowledge of the sailing route, but it also spoke of fog a fantastic radar system. Could you not then see the ventilation as a radar in the path through the fog, so that, in accordance with Article 6 of the Constitution, you give the space to those people in those very large spaces, wherever you have been? That's so important in life.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u120	I wouldn't go so far as to name one of the vectors that may play a role in the entire corona control system as the radar of the ship. I just think the radar system is that you're pulling influences from all sides and you're trying to take all the latest scientific insights with you in a good way. I have just said that, as a cabinet, we are convinced that this is happening consistently with RIVM and OMT. The interesting thing is, of course, that once in a while we heard a somewhat dissident sound in the press of a particular OMT member in relation to an opinion. I think this is only good in itself, because otherwise we would have to observe that science is an absolute constant, but it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u121	Rounding up. Finally, Mr. Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u122	Finally, Mr President. I am incredibly pleased that you say that Article 6 of the Constitution is particularly leading in all your actions. After all, we are a Christian-Jewish community with each other. From these values, we have grown as a country. I am pleased that you are giving the room for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u123	Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u124	Sailing is looking ahead, ruling is looking ahead. At the moment, I do not think we are talking about whether ventilation systems should be prescribed at the moment, but we are talking about whether we agree to a law that is before us. My question, and that is how I understood Mr Van Pareren's question, is the following. Is it true that if it is established at some point that the ventilation systems are indeed needed in schools or anywhere else, there is no provision or competence in the current law which provides that those ventilation systems can be prescribed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u125	I have taken a bit in the context of the churches, but I would really like to leave that question, if you will allow it, to Mr De Jonge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u126	We'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u127	Mr De Jonge is curious about my answer, I understand. But I'm not just gonna give that to you here!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u128	We are curious about the answer of the cabinet, at whatever mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u129	Now do I understand that I'm getting an answer to that question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u130	Yeah, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u131	Yeah, before nightfall.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u132	Today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u133	Mr. Chairman. I wanted to talk about the security regions. I am pleased to be able to say in your Chamber that this is a layer of administration, consisting of 25 mayors who are presidents of a security region, who have done a great service in the last six months in the fight against corona. I think it is also good to thank the Presidents for their many efforts. Unfortunately, I heard that one of those presidents, Onno van Veldhuizen, is currently seriously affected by corona. Let's be with him in mind. Mr. Chairman. I say that at a time of transition, but not to mark the end of the work of the security regions. Because under the regime of the bill, too, there remains an important role for them. Mr Meijer had an understandable question about this, namely whether the security regions remain in position. The temporary law is more closely linked to existing administrative relations, but this does not mean that the security region or the chairman is out of the picture. The chairman of the security region retains a coordinating role and the Regional Policy Team, the RBT, also plays a very important role. The Chair shall have an alerting role and he or she shall also receive information on local implementation practice. It will then pass through him or her to the Minister of VWS. Furthermore, the Presidents in general remain in charge of combating the epidemic under the leadership of the Minister of the United States of America. I would like to mention that the President has specific powers under the Public Health Act and he also keeps them, for example in relation to quarantine measures aimed at buildings and means of transport in the event of source contamination. Finally, the VWS Minister may decide to confer certain powers on the President when it comes to really extra-local effects in the fight against the epidemic. Mr. Chairman. Mr Recourt asked what is actually happening at the moment in the situation when a city council reports that it is not satisfied with the responsibility of the president of the security region. For this there is Article 40, fourth paragraph, of the Security Regions Act. That is the final part of the accountability that the President of a security region has. The President shall be accountable after the end of the crisis and also in the interim, within one month of the entry into force of the present law, the Temporary Law measures covid-19. A city council may make its position on certain decisions of the chairman known to the Minister for Justice and Security. That goes through the king's commissioner. He then gives his opinion on those decisions. All right, for the whole procedure, I refer further to how that is regulated in the law. The fact that the Security Regions Act refers here to the Minister of Justice and Security is because the Minister makes the nomination for appointment and resignation of the Presidents. Mr. Chairman. I'll get to the last part. That's enforcement. To the extent that there could be some misunderstanding, 27,195 minutes were written until 11 October 2020. In the case of 20 000 of them, criminal decisions, fines, have been imposed by the D.A. In 7 000 cases there has been opposition. In the House of Representatives I have also shown in detail that in July and August there were a lot less fines: about two fines per week, nationwide. That was, of course, because there was an enormous relaxation of the measures. That was one. Secondly, it was because enforcement policy at that time was also more focused on managing situations, so to speak, than on issuing fines. At the end of September, the Public Prosecutor stated in his policy framework that enforcement is really being strengthened again. This is also supported in the enforcement framework of the security regions. In this respect, I can tell you that the National Operational Team Corona, a cooperation of, among other things, defence, police, fire brigade and all other institutions in the field of security, has fully mapped out how the measures have so far been substantially strengthened since the end of September. First that happened on September 28th and then really again on October 13th. And then we see that in all security regions compliance is reasonable to good. There are occasional excesses, and there are also very specific parts in non-compliance by people of regulations. The LOT-C points to this, for example. It is also, unfortunately, mainly the things with parties and the like behind the front door. But for example, the hospitality closure is very careful and well done, and that is a compliment to the catering industry, so it is hardly noticeable from the point of view of maintenance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u134	Let me ask you a little bit, because I hear you say that it is about maintaining parties behind the front door. This law sees the protection of house law in its own home. How does that maintain behind the front door to what you just said, that the parties should be dealt with? What are we supposed to think about? Are we talking about a party in a fraternity house where fines are once imposed, or otherwise? For it is clear in the law: its own dwelling is excluded from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u135	If I have awakened the suggestion that the front door should be maintained, let me take it away immediately. I meant to say, and I think I also said that the non-compliance is mainly at the point of what is happening in many cases behind the front door. That's something we also say: we don't get there. In the first months of the corona pandemic it was true that in the event of nuisance or excesses, but this can already be done under the emergency regulations; that is not so much to do with corona in the situations where it was possible. But behind the front door... Well, that's just where people have their right to live and we can't go into it. And as you also know, it is an urgent advice that no more than three people visit you every day. If people don't follow those urgent advices, you'll see that home will be one of the big infection sites. And we don't want that, because of course we want to fight the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u136	Maybe in a broader sense the next question. Because I also heard the Minister say: we have an enforcement framework for the public prosecutor, an enforcement framework for the security regions. Could the Minister perhaps give a more detailed account of the balancing criteria for achieving these enforcement frameworks, and whether, as I advocated in my first term, certain indicators are also being used to draw up these enforcement frameworks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u137	The indicators are the corona measures, so to speak. That sounds a little lame, but I mean that enforcement will be used in particular. What is still the case is that the security regions have actually put into their enforcement frameworks from the very beginning: first appeal to the people; and if they are very consciously unresponsive or refuse, then you end up at penalty points. And the D.A. is in the policy on that, too. However, the D.A.'s right to say, "Hey, listen, somebody can't derive any rights from that." So it has not been said that you always get a warning first, which will also depend on the circumstances of the case. And there are, of course, situations where you can just see that people are obviously trying to break the rules. By the way, this is what we are talking about, and I want to say this clearly about what I call the'specific' corona measures, such as: prohibited group formation above the four, first a ban on gatherings, the 1.5 meters, hygiene and so on. When it comes to violations like spitting in the face of a enforcer or threatening a enforcer, of course we are in a completely different situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u138	Mr. Van Hattem, your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u139	That is indeed a different situation, but of course we are now faced with a law which clearly states in the explanatory statement that the warning always precedes the fine. I think the Minister can confirm that that remains the starting point. But apart from that, and that was not really so much what I asked about the indicators for the enforcement framework: what indicators are used to set certain priorities in enforcement? Of course, there are also enforcement priorities. That is a very important question for the municipal councils, because if this law is to be passed, it will have to be put to work in the near future in order to be able to control and adjust the mayors. If they do not know on the basis of which criteria certain enforcement priorities are used, it is very difficult to assess what policy a mayor has pursued. You can say that you think it is necessary to go and see if a lot of parties have been held, but you must have an indicator to know if that is really a factor on which you are going to maintain.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u140	The question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u141	In this respect, of course, the measures follow the indicators. The OMT advises the cabinet on what should happen. The OMT is not going to fill that out every time and detail, but on the basis of data from the RIVM indicates where it may see the largest fireplaces, and most group formation and that kind of thing, which you should pick up because there are many infections there. I come back to what I said earlier about the churches: the sad thing is that the number of infections is sometimes not so much about whether a sector is doing a great deal of work on the measures, but simply that there is a certain group formation there that increases the risk of infections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u142	I would like to ask you the following. You indicated that there were 20,000 fines, with 7 000 appeals. It's a lot of money. We are currently dealing with all the effects of corona: people's incomes go down, they lose their jobs and you name it. I indicated in my contribution that it would be a good idea to at least reduce the fines for everyone to a maximum of €100. Those fines apply now, too. Are you planning on doing that? That would help to support it. These were the first measures taken in spring against corona. At the time, very heavy fines were imposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u143	Your question is clear, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u144	Yes, I think the question is clear. Are you willing to do this...?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u145	Fines go down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u146	But could the people who received the high fines be compensated? In other words: that their fine, which was €400 first, goes to €90?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u147	No. What I am about to say, I have explained to a great extent in the House of Representatives: it does not work that way, of course. At the time, in March, the level of fines was determined entirely within the system of criminal proceedings by the Public Prosecutor's Office within the framework of policy, having heard all the parties in the field, if I may put it simply. This has also been done on the basis of the situation and the need at that time for strong measures with a high compliance effect. In the meantime, a majority of the House of Representatives indicated that it had come to the conclusion that these fines should come at a lower level. This was initially motivated by the fact that higher fines lead to a note in the judicial documentation. Later, this summer, it was said by the Chamber: we actually think that these fines should have a certain ceiling. Then we're talking about specific corona crimes, so not threatening a boa or spitting in the face of a police officer; that's all out of the question. Furthermore, the fines were imposed on the basis of the rules and policies that were in force at the time. Then it's up to the judge to judge that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u148	You want to ask a third question? You don't have to, but you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u149	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u150	The last one, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u151	Many parties are talking today about acceptance. You don't get support at some point by punishing, punishing, punishing. You get that by other ways, by rewarding, by stimulating in a very positive way. Is this such a big step? I understand that you are not yet moving, but I would like to advise you urgently to think carefully about these fines from the first period. That's what I'd like to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u152	Again. The amount of fines was fixed at the weekend of, I believe, 23 March. At that time, I myself accounted for the fact that that the autonomy of the Public Prosecutor's Office is why it was such a huge amount for that corona-specific... Yeah, but that was... Sorry, Mr. Chairman, I have to address you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u153	You're talking, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u154	That was also based on the circumstances and the situation there was. Then we have to go back in the memory and then we know that in the first days of the tight regime of intelligent lockdown, from March 15, everyone participated in that. Then it became the weekend and then you can just see this again. People had something like: well, we've been very strict for a week now and now we're going again. In that situation, the Public Prosecutor, having heard all the parties, has said: we must now make a firm commitment to this. We are now in very different circumstances. Whether a fine imposed at that time, for example in April or May, was justified, too high or whatever, is, in principle, up to the courts. The canton judges have made a number of judgments, while in some cases they have maintained the fines, in others they have made a part conditional and in others they have said: that fine is too high in view of the private situation of that person. As a minister, I must not cross the line of the separation of powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u155	Then I will go to Mr Nicolaï. The request from the Chamber is whether you wish to speak a little louder, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u156	Oh, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u157	I also asked if your microphone could be turned on. This together should lead to the package of measures which will make it easier for Members to follow. Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u158	The Minister's talking about enforcement. His partymate in the First Chamber has proposed that the military should also be involved in that enforcement. I'd like to know how the Minister feels about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u159	I'm very old-fashioned. I will come to the answer to these questions later, and then I will come to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u160	I would like to build on Mr Van Pareren's question. This was about the point raised by Mrs Prins, namely if urgent action is taken under a new law, which the House of Representatives later puts a line through and what will be done if a sentence is imposed in that short space of time. I read in the written reply that it was said at the time that the citizens affected could appeal to the fact that there is now a more favourable regime. Well, I thought that was rather amazing, because a retroactive arrangement applies or doesn't. In this case, I don't think so. The question is: if that is the case, should it not be much wider and should it also apply to the fines which were imposed much higher at the time, so that people can now rely on the more favourable regime, in which the fines are much lower? I follow the reasoning in the written answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u161	I would like to go on to say a few words about Mr De Boer's question and I hope that Mr Nicolaï will forgive me. First of all, the public prosecutor himself, self-employed, has now decided, following the adoption in the Second Chamber of the covidwet with those reduced fines, to lower the fines from now on. That's one. The people do not have to worry from now on, because they are at the level of fines that the Twm, the Temporary Law measures covid-19, also assumes. And as far as the rest is concerned, the Public Prosecutor's Office has an independent position. Also of the fines given in May or June, the judge can find something. That's what he's doing right now. Let me speak for myself and not for you. At least I think I really should stay out of it. It is three years on the head today that the cabinet is there, and in those three years I have always been far away from something that looks like a clue. I do not think this fits in with our rule of law, unlike after the whole Parliament says we should give a clue. But that's what you have to do. Mr President, that was the first point about fines. There was also a question from Mrs. Prince about the military's deployment. Mrs. Prins-Moderaar rightly asks: do you have sufficient capacity? Before the package of measures of 13 October, which meant a real tightening up and tightening of all the buttons, we had discussions with the Public Prosecutor and with the police. We then laid down what we wanted to do and what the enforcement arrangement should be and asked: can you get out of the way with that? Are you sure you're up to that? It has happened before that the police said about certain rules that they could not be enforced, because they were so complicated or that there were so many exceptions. Now police and boas have made it very clear that this was just very good, that they can maintain it and that they have the capacity for it. Capacity doesn't mean there's a cop on every corner of the street. It can't be. We can't afford that in this society. But I am, for example, working with Mr Wiebes of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy to see if you can give the retail trade its own role with regard to the enforcement of the retail trade, so that one does one's own first thing among themselves. Of course, that saves a lot of effort. Furthermore, it is so that it may sound a bit sunny...... that the corona crime monitor that I receive weekly, in March and April showed that certain crime was falling dramatically. That sounds crazy: dramatically dropped, but it was. That's why police deployment was released. For example, road accidents went down a huge amount. Interestingly enough: pickpocketing also decreased by 90%. That is also a very difficult field to practice at 1.5 metres. We are now a few months away and now we see that crime has not fallen as much as in the spring, but it is a lot less. In addition, very important, there is no longer a busy nightlife in the big cities and there are no major events on which the police must commit themselves. We still have to make sure that we keep our people at ease and keep things in order. That's what I have to add. It was indeed in the months of June and July with all the demonstrations, especially for the police Haaglanden, and further efforts occasionally heavy. But that capacity is there. The army's commitment: then we would really be in a state of emergency. I wouldn't want to end up there with each other myself. The Council of State also says something nice about it. It says: we have not done so here, and there are a few arguments for that. The most important thing is that it doesn't belong to us Dutch. It doesn't say that, and I regret that, but I think we can really do this enforcement without the army. I'll get to the last, before I parry Mr Verkerk on Dooyeweerd. That is Mr Van Rooijen's question as to how we are going to enforce the measures by means of this law. I hope that at least I have indicated that there has been really good enforcement. Less was maintained in the summer with fines, because of the relaxation but also because it was not the atmosphere. Now it's turned on more. We see that sectors are increasingly taking measures themselves to ensure that this compliance is true. I agree with Mr Van Pareren that maintaining criminal law must be a final step. It shouldn't be repression at the front. In this respect, we really have a different mentality here than in some other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u162	I would like to comment briefly on the deployment of investigators. I'm very happy to hear you say that there are people available. I would also have asked you how you view the announcement of an immediate emergency measure, as stated in the law, but which is reversed after a week. What would that do to the morale of the detectives? Perhaps you can take that into account later in your reply, but we are concerned about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u163	I'd better drop the door in the house. I care about that, too. Over the last seven to eight months, I have visited many enforcers in the country to see what they encounter and how they do it. I also absorbed the criticism, which was about two things. The first is what Mrs Prins-Moderan rightly says, that we have had measures that we have sometimes reversed within a few weeks. That's what we learn from as a cabinet. Fortunately, that does not happen now or hardly anymore. The second is that we have also had the measures put together so complicated at some point, that as a maintainer you needed about Gouda's phone book to get an explanation. And you can't. With that, you can't trust people into the streets. Mr. Chairman. Two weeks ago, with the security regions, within the framework of the new enforcement framework, we completely cleaned up the emergency regulation, and you will excuse me, but that is what has happened to all these weird protrusions and footnotes that maintainers can't do anything with in practice. Three or four weeks ago we said, at the urge, that certain large cultural buildings could be excluded from the maximum of 30, because we were told that Carré, Ahoy and so on are falling over. Unfortunately, due to developments, we had to withdraw it a week later. I care too, because those are things you wish you hadn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u164	I appreciate your concern, but what else could you do about it? In the law now before us, it is made even more complicated by the fact that a ministerial arrangement is still in place one week, but can be revoked the other week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u165	I don't think that's a big risk. We have, of course, seen, looking back, that from mid-March to early May we had a very clear, rather uniform package. From mid-May to 1 juno, many people still know a second and then it changed again from juno. You can see there's been a big movement about five times. Only sometimes you have to do and fine tune smaller things within that great movement. In this respect, I agree with Mrs Prins-Moderaar's remark. We learned really well from that. That is why we have brought police, boas and prosecutors to the front and have asked them: can you really maintain this, can you really work with this and is it practical and readable?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u166	The Minister gave me an answer when discussing the enforcement chapter. I still have the very specific question of how he looks at incidents of my opinion Saturday and Sunday. In Breda, testing was hampered. The people who took the test and the people who wanted to be tested were threatened. We have had the incident of the party under a viaduct with hundreds of people who came from Amsterdam with taxis. How can this be maintained? The minister said there is more capacity because there are no events and the cafés and other restaurants are closed. Is it then possible, also for the imagery, that we should do something about it and that we should find something about it? You have a chance here to say something about that. I got so many questions about that from people over the weekend, in the vein: you have a debate, how do you feel about that now, isn't that terrible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u167	First, this. Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP, at least as far as I am concerned, has the copyright for the distinction that there are things banned in law, in criminal law, and so you cannot think of the 1.5 meters, which simply cannot be done and things that cannot be done, because we as a society say that this is outside our standards and values. In the crisis we see a complicated point. As for the first category of rules, it's in people's nature to think: what's the deal? Many of you say: I see little loved ones by these rules, or I have to do so at a great distance. Maintaining the security regions says that you have to appeal to people and give them a warning, and they should only be fined if they draw a long nose at you, for example, if they go through with it or if it is a priori clear that things cannot be done, such as less than 1.5 meters away and a group size of four. Of the things that aren't allowed, we agree that you're not gonna threaten people on a test street or destroy the place? Whether it's corona or something else, it's just not right and we don't allow it in our society. Let me say the following: although this pandemic of course gives us sometimes spiritually and in the physical realm and in our daily life distress, we still have to keep to the agreements when it comes to the second kind of thing. That means that at least all those things that have to do with anything should not happen. I told you about parties on 24 March that I think that's antisocial. When I was often asked at the end of August why I said that, I repeated it: it is antisocial and it is not part of our society. You don't. I can see that 70% or so of our society still fully supports the measures and says that we must fight the virus. And, admittedly, the 95% that it was in mid-March may have created a little too many associations with some regimes in the old Eastern bloc in terms of quantity, but it was there. So there really has always been a great unity of the Dutch population. I can also hear some of your Members screaming a bit about compliance and enforcement, but we note that, and I really get that back from the police, the boas and the mayors that the vast majority of people are very serious about this. We do not tolerate a small group frustrating this with purely negative and wrong behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u168	Just a brief closing, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u169	Thanks to the Minister, but I'd still like to go to the Hilversum incident. All those taxis and all those people who knew you could go there, should have been traced to the police through all the contacts that are technically there these days, right? Maybe they knew, too. Could one have acted sooner to prevent it? Could we have intervened earlier, which would not have allowed it to go on for a long time? I say this for the image of the children who behave well. I have seven grandchildren of my own and they say: Grandpa, why can't I, because we can't do anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u170	May I interrupt you for a moment? We are a little out of the legislative proposal, so I would like to ask the Minister to reply very briefly, also in view of the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u171	I will reply to it very briefly. The police have a good information position, but with modern means, such as Facebook, you can drum up a large number of people somewhere in no time. The only thing I can say to people like that is that in the long run they will make sure that the regime gets tighter and tighter. And we don't want that. Here's what I'm gonna say in fireworks. I was just looking at the new member Keunen. He is also a well-known champion of fighting fireworks, let me put it this way, if that is a good expression. I often say: the parents also have a job in it, as educators. They should say to their children: you know, it's not possible right now. I mention Mr. Hoek's 94-year-old letter, which was sent to police action after the Second World War. My father and my uncles had exactly the same thing. They just didn't have a lot of fun with things for eight years, let's say, and yet they had fun. It's the reality we have to live with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u172	Mr. Van Rooijen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u173	Mr President, I object to your remark that it would be out of order. We've been talking about enforcement here for an hour. The minister says my last block is enforcement. We have already talked about the fines and so on. A colleague already mentioned the military. I ask very modestly: what can you learn from Hilversum and what are we going to do about it, also to secure the test streets? I would like to know from the Minister, especially now that, fortunately, there is a little more police capacity, whether or not he is paying extra attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u174	I can say that without further ado. I also have discussions about this this week, because we are indeed seeing a number of things here that we say: wait, we need to pay special attention to. Mr. Chairman. Mr Verkerk noted that ministers of the CDA house should know the philosopher Dooyeweerd. Now I have to remember that with me the Roman Catholic Church is the mother church, so I think Mr De Jonge, when I leave later, will be able to support you much longer over Dooyeweerd. I think he knows a lot of his works by heart, at least that's what I suspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u175	Is that a threat?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u176	But his magnum opus was the book The Philosophy of Law. And I hope that Mr. Verkerk doesn't make it clear to me that as a Roman Catholic boy I always got my reformed fraternities to say: that book, that is the wise idea of law. Anyway, this is just for the gourmets. Mr. Chairman. This is my contribution. If you'll excuse me, I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u177	Thank you, Minister. Have a good trip. We like to see you again in health. I now give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. We have a maximum of one hour to reply to both heads of government. Do you think that's feasible, Minister De Jonge?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u178	I think so, Mr. Chairman. It won't be me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u179	At least I'll go to dinner break around 6:40, then everyone can count on it. And then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u180	Mr President, thank you. I just need to get the stuff organized. It is a somewhat unusual choreography perhaps, because of the necessary presence of Mr Grapperhaus at the Security Council tonight. I would like to say a few more introductory things later, because I can answer some of your questions as well. After that, I really want to classify it so that first of all I deal with the why and the need for this law and parliamentary involvement in a block. I also discuss the content of the law, all the questions that have been asked about it. And then there is a block to other questions that are not really so much about the law as about the approach as a whole. I shall go into this a little less exuberantly, I think that will also be the request of the President. But you cannot, of course, stay away from the more general themes that have been raised by this and that by such a law that affects policy as a whole. But perhaps first of all, I would also like to thank your Chamber for the thorough and rapid handling of this law. So we can do both. Only two weeks ago that happened in the Lower House, and already here in the Upper House. This speed will certainly be necessary in the coming period in the fight against the virus. I shall come back to that later, also in response to a number of questions. Mr Ollongren will highlight the more fundamental aspects of law. The theme of disinformation and the entire municipal domain will also be done by colleague Ollongren. I do the themes I have just mentioned myself. I'll start first in a more general sense. We are discussing this bill against the background of major concerns about the high number of infections, which seems to be constantly high at the moment. More than 10,000 infections were added today. More than 2,200 patients are now in hospitals, of which more than 500 are on the ic. That too is just high. We are seeing some effects of previous measures, but the effects of the last package of 13 October are not yet sufficiently reflected in the figures. That means that we are all looking very carefully at the figures, as they are developing at the moment. The Prime Minister and I will discuss this in greater detail tomorrow. We will then give a more detailed explanation of the figures. We will also indicate what decision we stand for and how we weigh the current situation in relation to any measures to be taken. Against that background, we are discussing this bill. This nasty virus has been in our hands for six months now. This virus will also hold us in its grip in the near future. This means that we will also have to deal with measures in the coming period. First of all, I would like to endorse what Mr Recourt said. He says it's mostly about behavior. More members have underlined this. It is true: in the end it is mainly about behaviour, but behavior can be helped, guided or stimulated with measures to be taken. The adoption of measures has helped to provide a good basis. That's what this lawsuit is about. We will therefore be faced with measures that hinder us in our freedoms for a long time to come. That's inevitable. They are measures that touch what makes our lives so beautiful: proximity, contact and being together. It is therefore not illogical that the measures taken lead to a great deal in society. At the first wave we had to deal with a great sense of solidarity, but at the second wave this is really different. You can see this in the many reactions that have come to the law. I think that is precisely why it is good to be very precise in what that law is and is not about. I'll start with that last one. This law is not about more power or powers for a cabinet. This law is not a power grab or decree. In fact, I think we're doing the opposite. The temporary law limits existing powers of the cabinet and provides more control of the parliament. It is, of course, understandable that the present law has led to a lot of reactions, both in parliament and in society. The present law has also caused a lot of unrest. I'd like to say a few things about that. A number of Members have asked for a reflection. Could this have been different or better? Could it not have been possible to design a different route of action in the light of this bill? I think so. I have also said a number of things about this in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u181	I would like to ask the Minister about this. You indicated that there are such publications of 10,000 infections a day. That's an average of 300,000 a month. The average citizen in the Netherlands would think: that's wrong, because then 50,000 hospital beds would be needed and 40,000 people would be on the ice in no time. Can't it be a little more nuanced with those numbers? This brings so much unrest to the people that it is beyond comprehension. The number is too large and they're all going to come up with images. You're gonna get a reaction to that again. Isn't it more convenient to give more explanation than just to scream: 10,000 infections a day?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u182	We actually did this on purpose. If there is such a major crisis that affects us in all facets of society, then in an adult society, what we are with each other, you must make all the information available to the cabinet, on the basis of which we make decisions, accessible as best as possible. I very much agree with Mr Van Pareren that you must make it understandable. We have deliberately developed the dashboard that we have developed for that purpose. I remember when we started doing that, indeed a number of people said: beware, because people don't always know what those numbers mean, and that multitude of numbers just leads to unrest. On the contrary, we have chosen to share everything we know very consciously. That indeed means that there is an update daily on the coronadashboard. That's usually around an hour or two, sometimes earlier. The coronadashboard actually has everything on it. That's all you'd like to know about steering information. Even then, it is not easy to actually point out the figures. I think that goes for all of us, including the cabinet. We are looking at the number of people who are actually tested positive. We're looking at the percentage of positive test results. We're looking at the number of new hospital admissions. We're looking at the number of new ic-recordings. We're looking at the total hospitalizations. We're looking at more contextual factors. For example, we are also looking at more calculated figures, for example what the R-factor would have been two weeks ago. That is an important figure. What is the number of infectiouss in its totality? That is an important figure. In the total of these figures, you make the weighting which measures are or are not proportionate at what point, whether or not they are adequate. I'm going back to this law. At the moment when I am in conclave with Parliament, whether it is with the Second or the First Chamber, and when the Cabinet is called to account or measures are proportionate, I must be able to indicate them in the whole of the figures. That is why I think it is right to share this whole set of figures with society every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u183	That's clear. If we translate those figures to the future, that means that by the end of November there will be more than 2,000 beds occupied on the ic, if we continue on this foot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u184	No, of course not. Let me not tell you everything for tomorrow, but we will try to point that out in a good way tomorrow. We took a number of measures on 28 September. At least we can see that they have had something of an effect. We see this in the delay in the increase, in the flattening of the increase in both infection rates and hospitalisations. That wasn't the effect you wanted. The R probably didn't come under 1, but you do see a flattening of its rise. We then, of course, adopted a new package of measures on 13 October. It is too recently to be able to say with certainty what effect that has. Of course, you would have wanted that right now, but it's actually on the early side to have a judgment on that. That's how we look at the numbers. So you can't say automatically: if it's so much now, over 2,200 hospitalizations, it'll be sister or something at the end of the month. That depends entirely on the reproductive factor. You can always calculate the reproduction factor only with a certain delay. You know that actually only two weeks after date, or you have to go back two weeks in time to calculate the reproductive factor properly. That's what makes it so complicated about steering. Exponential growth feels unnatural. If you see something rise and you actually know after two weeks how fast that increase has been, then you have to take into account all kinds of different scenarios. That makes this virus difficult to control. The assessment of what measures you have to take at what point is also difficult, especially since the legitimate question of what is proportional can always be asked to a cabinet. Another very fair question that can always be asked is: how do you operate from a precautionary principle? Those questions keep us busy every day. In this way, we also weigh the figures that come before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u185	I would like to say that I am very curious about tomorrow's reassuring figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u186	Well, let's hope so, but let's not get ahead of ourselves. Mr. Chairman. I am so naturally going on to discuss the need for this law, but I had started to reflect on whether we could have done it differently and better. A number of Members had asked for this reflection. On its own, we have actually done the consultation process in a way that, of course, we do a lot more often with legislative proposals. You send a law into consultation, then you get a reaction to it and then you make a better version of the law that you had initially rolled off the drawing board. That version goes to the Council of State, comments come back to it and you put it back into the bill. And only then will you send it to the House of Representatives. We have done so now and so you come up with several versions of a bill. That's right. Because we wanted to take quite short time for the consultation, we did a targeted consultation and therefore no public internet consultation. I think it has been one of the more clumsy elements in the preliminaries, because it seemed secretly. It wasn't, because it was only for the sake of time. What we have done is something we always do, namely not communicate very extensively about the content and why a legislative proposal is in consultation. Why not? You actually do that out of courtesy to Parliament, because when a bill goes to parliament, a bill is really public. So that's the law you're talking about. Well, that too, I think, was one of the more clumsy elements in the communication surrounding this draft law. Where you saw that the unrest was already so great, it would really have been better to do a full public consultation and to do that consultation with sufficient time. It would really have been better if we had designed the communication about that bill, its content and why, rather more generously and did not start to communicate about it just for the sake of politely when it was in Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u187	Thank you to the Minister for this answer. It is a very procedural response to the legislative process, but the content of the bill also caused commotion. I am thinking, for example, of the idea of going to see if we can maintain behind the front door. That's part of the whole picture of what caused unnecessary commotion, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u188	That's right. There is no doubt that there is a moving insight into this too. That is what we said in the House of Representatives. Look, where there are most infections behind the front door and where there are all kinds of parties in student homes, there is a need for enforcement. That is why it was retained behind the front door as an option included in the bill. We have seen that the unrest that this caused was very great and its real profit in combating the virus is still low. After all, you do not have the capacity to do so and it is not in all cases equally proportional to want to maintain that behind the front door. Then we said: let us simply delete the possibility at all. I think that has helped contribute to the peace and quiet around this bill. In recent weeks, it has also led to a single question from a single mayor: looking at what is happening behind those front doors, I would like to intervene. But in most APV's it is actually just possible to perform with an excess enforcement. But I share it: it has indeed been a number of substantive elements, which have not helped with this unrest. That is also why we deliberately deleted it. But that too is, on its own, more common. It happens more often that you go into consultation with a draft bill and that you still think: better not. Then you take it out and send it to the Council of State in an improved form. Then you get it back from the Council of State and then some very justified nuts get cracked. And then you think, "We're gonna have to change that before it goes to the Chamber." On its own, this is all part of a legislative process. But in this case everything that has to do with corona leads to unrest, tension and a lot of excitement and concern in society. That, I believe, should have led us, in retrospect, to take more time for it and to do so much more in full disclosure. So, yeah... looking back is what's going on there, and I think it's just fair to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u189	Minister, let me take a look at the time. You had three blocks: parliamentary involvement, content and others. Had you already started or are we still getting it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u190	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u191	Were you already getting started on the issue of parliamentary involvement or are we getting that...?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u192	I'm actually on the threshold to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u193	Then I'd be happy to encourage you to step over that threshold.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u194	Well, I guess I'd better. It is really about why and the need for the law and parliamentary involvement. Of course Dooyeweerd would have been delicious and Mr.Grapperhaus really mowed the grass away from my feet. It would have been great to reflect heavily on Dooyeweerd, even though I come more than one of my predecessors of the CDA from the reformed corner than from the reformed corner. But one more thing about Dooyeweerd. The ARP's programme of principles also included another provision: "In the interest of public health, it considers" "the anti-revolutionary direction "that the government has already taken such measures in the presence of infectious diseases (except for the free disposal of each of them over his own body and his own conscience) as being capable of and indispensable in order to prevent anyone, involuntary and ignorant, from touching them dangerously or, was he himself infected, from passing on his smear to others." At the same time, therefore, the ARP was of the opinion that the government should be able to act in a protective manner. The pendulum was control and freedom. At the time, there was quite an eye for the balance between them. But of course Mr Verkerk is right: this bill is mainly about the possibilities you would have as a cabinet to control that virus. I would remind you of what Mr Recourt said: in the end, the behaviour of people themselves determines whether or not the virus can jump over. It is not the measures that are going to control that virus; it is the behavior of people themselves. Measures can help with this. In order to be able to take these measures, we will have to provide them with a proper legal basis. We had that good legal basis at the start of the crisis on the basis of the Public Health Act. The Minister of VWS is making a lead. Then the President of the Security Region made an emergency regulation. On this basis, the Council of State said earlier: that was the most reluctant and least radical way of establishing a proper legal basis for the measures to be taken. But where these are indeed restrictive in fundamental rights, they cannot be maintained for a very long time. So it was necessary to do it in a different way. That is why this legislative proposal has been put into effect. I think that bill has really improved in the House of Representatives. If it was the intention of the cabinet to organise Parliament's involvement properly, a certain strengthening of that parliamentary involvement has been introduced, including by the Buitenweg amendment. A number of questions have been asked about this. What are the chances that the exception for urgency laid down in Article 58c (3) will become the rule in practice? That is a very fair question from Mr Recourt. We have seen the following over the past period. You look very closely at how the rate of infection develops, but when you see the need to take measures, you have to let it go pretty quickly from that moment on. You do the analysis in a good way, you come to a weighting of the numbers that are on the retina and at that moment you are forced to act. That would mean that this urgency option, which was initially regulated by a safety net provision, was rightly included in this amendment. At the same time, I think that if the cabinet will use it over and over again, the Chamber will say: but this is not the way it is meant to be; the royal route was indeed intended to create more peace in the parliamentary process and to give Parliament room for proper consideration of an arrangement before it enters into force. That is the purpose of the amendment. So that's what we have to relate to. We will do so by the way in which we will put the measures into a ministerial arrangement. I will go into more detail in a moment on how we see these measures in front of us, how we will set up this ministerial arrangement. But it is important that we give the Chamber the opportunity, if possible, to discuss this in a calm manner with the Cabinet. Mrs De Boer said: "The safety net provision has been deleted by the Buitenweg amendment. Only the measures explicitly mentioned in the law can still be taken. Other measures require a legislative amendment. Can the government confirm that?" Yes, I can confirm that. In fact, you could see this bill as a limitation of the powers that the cabinet has, because it classifies what the measures should and should not be about, especially what they should be about. In the case of implication, anything that is not classified is indeed not a domain on which the cabinet can take action. If the cabinet considers it necessary, it will have to steer a fully-fledged legislative process through both chambers and argue that, also in terms of proportionality and subsidiarity. Mr Nicolaï said: to place the right of non-appointment only with the Lower House is pointed out the risk of delay; would there be an unacceptable delay if both Chambers had a right of assent? I think there are several arguments for the amendment as put forward by Buitenweg to place the right of non-validation only with the House of Representatives. The Advisory Section is very much concerned about this. One of those arguments is that you would not want to have the same type of debate or type of involvement in everyday practice in both chambers, because you would then have a similar debate in two chambers. Then the primate as a legislator really lies with the House of Representatives. The Council of State also says: the role of both Chambers does not need to be comparable; the House of Representatives is more important. Indeed, speed must be maintained. Is it speed in the sense of order periods? No, that's not the case. You could set a similar deadline at the same time. But there is a risk that you will have the same debate in two Chambers in one week on measures to be taken as soon as possible. The outcome may therefore be different. That is what the Council of State points out: this gives greater clarity and avoids the risk that the two parliaments will have a different view of each other. How would this work, if an arrangement were to be made with a set of measures accepted in the Lower House, but which would lead to the non-applicability of that arrangement in the Upper Chamber? Then you have quite a strange figure and you also have two rooms opposite each other. In short, I think that the amendment is right to choose the House of Representatives. I think that the Council of State is right to stress the need to prevent the two parliaments from coming up against each other. It does not improve the speed of the fight against crisis when, in such a case, you would have to re-establish an arrangement, go through both parliaments and so on. We do not have time for that in the fight against the virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u195	The Council of State only mentioned two arguments. One was the time and the ability to act and the other was the difference in position, namely that the House of Representatives has the right of amendment and initiative and we do not have it here. But as I mentioned in my contribution, that is not relevant because the House of Representatives can only say yes or no. So that position is completely the same, but I do not read that in the explanatory statement to the amendment and certainly not in the story of the Council of State. Do I actually hear the Minister say that if you want to act quickly, you just don't have to let the First Chamber look at it? In short, his story comes down to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u196	I think I said it a little more graceful. I would point out what the Council of State appoints, namely that if you were to make an arrangement ratified in the House of Representatives, I would say briefly, but not in the First Chamber, you would set two parliaments against each other. Then the scheme cannot continue and the basis for action will lapse and as a cabinet you will have to make a new arrangement. If you're in a situation of exponential growth, it's the best way to fill the hospitals as soon as possible. This is also the best way for society to lose confidence in a decisive and decisive government, because it will destroy you meeting. That's exactly what you shouldn't want. Indeed speed is certainly a factor. I think Mr Nicolaï is right to point out that it is not so much speed in the deadlines as it is in the situation that if two parliaments come to a different conclusion with regard to a settlement, we can have a similar period at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u197	The information provided by the Council of State includes all the different possibilities in that beautiful annex. Those possibilities are about the need for both Chambers to agree to something. So even with an AMvB it can happen that the Lower House does agree, but the Upper Chamber does not. That's how it works. But you're actually saying that we can't use that in this situation. You can explain that to me again, because this actually means that you say that democracy is better represented in the Lower House than in the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u198	Well, now you're going to give me a special summary of what I said. I didn't say that. Maybe we should go back. When the crisis broke out, we took a good look at what would be the least invasive, the least invasive way of taking action, the way to deal with it with the least infringement. What basis would be most appropriate to this situation? Then we chose the Wpg, designation plus emergency regulation. This is to prevent the introduction of state emergency law. If you look at it internationally, you can see that in fact all the legal regimes, including in most Western European countries, have been far more invasive than what this cabinet has used. The Council of State noted in its information on 25 May that this was done well. But the Council of State also says that this is, of course, a very different type of crisis than usual. Normally, this makes sense. You want a cabinet to act. You don't want to get in the way of the fire department, not even as a parliament. So it makes sense that you do it this way. But now that we are in this crisis phase for a much longer period, you will have to settle a different type of legal basis. So that's what this one has become. Next, it's the question of how you're gonna sort it out practically. In the direction of Mr Recourt, I have just explained this. When I look at how we have taken action over the past period, I analyse the figures. For that, you need to know very well what the trend development actually is. You always need a few weeks to appreciate that trend development in a good way. You try to achieve a good weighting based on as many indicators as possible. As soon as you know that you have measures to take, you should actually take them very quickly to prevent the damage that is going to happen from becoming too great. That's one way. That is the control side, in the words of Mr Verkerk. On the other hand, democracy simply demands that a parliament has the last word. That's what we want to do with each other, and that's what this law is about. It is not easy to reconcile that, because you want speed and force on the one hand and democratic legitimacy on the other. To do that in a good way, we did it this way. The Second and First Chambers of course have the right to consent to this law. The Second and First Chambers also keep their instruments. You can order me or Mr Ollongren or both of us every day of the year and then we will be accountable. Then you can go against us with all the parliamentary instruments. But when it comes to this law and the adoption and ratification of the ministerial regulations, the primacy lies with the House of Representatives. Does this make it impossible for the First Chamber to control or even correct the cabinet? No, on the contrary, because you can invite us and then also open up your entire parliamentary coffin and get all the tools out of it that you would like to get out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u199	Mr Nicolaï, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u200	I hear the Minister say that the prime minister is in the House of Representatives. I can quite imagine that under some circumstances. But let us simply take a concrete measure: the schools are closed down. Why should the House of Representatives be better equipped to assess those essential, fundamental rights relating to the soundness of education in relation to measure than the First Chamber? Because I really hear that every time in the Minister's words. In fact, the Minister and the Government are asking us to speak out a licence of inability, because we are going to mutilate ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u201	This is the third time in a row that Mr Nicolaï gives a very wonderful summary of my rather nuanced and yet more loving speech, I sincerely believe. Let's look at the example of the schools. Suppose the cabinet would consider it necessary to close the schools. Then we'll make a ministerial arrangement and send it to the Chambers. Then the House of Representatives has the right, if there are 50 Members who do not wish to ratify that proposal, to enter a debate to ask for a ruling from the Chamber within eight days. That's different from a regular procedural meeting. Then we enter that debate and the outcome of the debate is that the scheme is being complied with, so the scheme remains in place. Next, on the next day, I have a debate in the First Chamber in which a majority of the First Chamber says, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. A cabinet can't run a crisis like that, can it? So if we want something left of a decisive government, given that the democratic legitimacy of the measures that you take must be made, then it is quite logical that the House of Representatives has made the choice to actually grant the Second Chamber that right of ratification. This is without prejudice, moreover, to the instruments available to the Council of State, and that is also what the Council of State is saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u202	Of course, you're all just as nice to me, but who was first? That's Mr. Otten? I shall now give the floor to Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u203	I said in my first term: a First Chamber that cannot stand up for its own right, it has no right to exist. Now I hear the Minister say: yes, the First Chamber should just shut up for a moment, because that is all taking far too long and we do not have time for that now. I don't know what I hear; it sounds almost like half a coup! Who are you to deny us the right to judge this? That is the state-law system in the Netherlands. We have a First Chamber and a Second Chamber. You can say "the First Chamber, I'm kidding," but we do have him. I just don't think it's a good idea for the Minister to address us like this. That is why I have also tabled a motion to ensure that something is arranged so that the Supreme Court can take control of it. For we have acted quickly; that has already been mentioned by other people. We can also move quickly, especially as far as our group is concerned; we do not believe in endless meetings in committee if this is not necessary. We can request a debate and discuss it quickly. We also do that with other matters; we have done so with the nitrogen laws. We have a heavy front for everything in this Chamber: for nitrates directives, for telecoms legislation, you name it. And just for this law, which makes huge violations of fundamental rights, would that all be superfluous? Because I hear the Minister say otherwise we have to meet too much...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u204	I'll take the floor back, Mr. Otten. Two things. First of all, I would like to ask you to come to a question. Secondly, there are limits to the use of words, as far as I am concerned. If you accuse the government of fooling this Chamber, that is a very serious accusation. If you take the word "state grip" in your mouth, that is also a very serious accusation. I know you as someone who doesn't need that word. I therefore ask you not to do so. And I would also ask you to put your question now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u205	Mr President, I said 'half', not 'all', but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u206	But you...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u207	...I take that back, for the record. But I don't think the whole way the Minister speaks to us is a pass either. So my question to the Minister is: where does that dedain come from with the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u208	Well, I don't hear a dedain. As chairman, I object to this. We, as a Chamber, speak with the Minister in a good way, and the Minister also gives a decent answer. If you accuse the Minister of having dedain, that is a very serious accusation. That does not fit this Chamber, nor does it do justice to the Minister's serious attempts to give a serious answer. So I would ask you to ignore these qualifications in this, further good, debate we are having together on this amendment from the House of Representatives. I now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u209	Perhaps a general comment first. Look, what we've seen is that that virus doesn't just have sickening powers. That virus also has all kinds of centrifugal forces: we see a great polarization in society. And precisely because we see that, I think we should be very precise about what this law is and not about, and how it does and does not help us to do two things at the same time, namely: to allow a competent government to keep that virus underneath; and, on the other hand, to strengthen the democratic legitimacy that this type of measure, which is freedom-limiting and which we must maintain for a long time, also to provide a proper legal foundation. That's what this law is about. Then the question is: how do you make it work in practice; how do you actually make it work in practice in a good way? And so we just got to the example of the schools. Assuming that the cabinet would consider it necessary to close the schools, then we have to argue that very well, it must be proportionate. Well, then we're gonna argue that very well and we're gonna make an arrangement for that. We will then send them to both Chambers, and both Chambers may also discuss them with the Cabinet. So there's nothing limiting or anything in this law regarding the role in the Upper House. Not at all, that role is not restricted by this law. That role is yours by virtue of all that is due to you in the constitutional sense. And that doesn't matter to this law or to it. You then have the opportunity to ask the cabinet about this. Only, the non-appointment of this proposal suppose that the cabinet would make that proposal, that is up to the House of Representatives. There's an important reason for that. At the end of the day, when you grant that possibility to both chambers, that may lead to an opposite view of the measures you have to take. All the virus needs to be able to climb again is not being able to take the measures you should take given the level of infection. Therefore, it would be really unwise to include the possibility of a similar discussion in both chambers with possibly a different outcome in a legislative proposal. Can we have both debates in both chambers? Yes, of course, because you have the right to invite us all the days of the year. Then you can open up the entire toolbox to parliamentary possibilities to attack the cabinet. It's okay. There's nothing against that. This bill does not change that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u210	Yeah, that's a nice story about that toolbox. Only, the most important instrument in the toolbox is the agreement to the ministerial arrangement. That is the crucial element in this whole law. It's not in the upper chamber toolbox. I hear the Minister say that we have left that out because otherwise it is all so difficult with the First Chamber. But that's our state system. We have two chambers, both of which have control over it. You can't just put that aside, then, Mr President-in-Office, like: it takes too much time and too much meeting stuff. Certainly not because so much has been gathered, which is why we are now in the corona crisis in which we are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u211	No, that's bullshit, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u212	I even hear that Belgian ic patients are already coming to the Netherlands because it is also filling up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u213	Your question is clear, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u214	You can't put that aside carelessly, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u215	The Minister, and then we go to the next one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u216	Qualifications about what we've done so far, I think I'll give you a moment. But no, it's really an incorrect representation of things. Indeed, when we meet, we certainly can't get that virus underneath. If we came to an agreement with each other whereby first the House of Representatives and then the First Chamber had to actively ratify something, with potentially a different outcome, you would have done the virus a service, and not the control of it. That's right. That is why the House of Representatives has chosen to do so. I think that is a very follow-up reason. But it's not like the First Chamber would be constrained by this. I am committed to discussing that, because I still hear all kinds of statements as if they were. No, it's not. You already had options. You can simply invite the cabinet. Then we'll have a debate. Such a meeting may then lead to a conclusion. With that conclusion, the cabinet has to do it. Such a conclusion, for example, by motion, beside you, is unwise. I have also said in the House of Representatives that it may even be so unwise that the lifespan is shortening. This will not be easy for a cabinet if a majority position is expressed in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u217	I heard the Minister say two things he might have to think about a little longer. If the hospitals were flooded by the First Chamber because the First Chamber has a role that would lead to a difference of opinion with the Second Chamber because of a different balancing framework, I find that quite an accusation, if we are talking about accusations. Secondly, I also hear the Minister constantly talking about the right of ratification. I hope I can get an answer to that later. Otherwise, we're gonna keep talking past each other all the time. I don't think there's a right of ratification. I argued that in detail earlier. I want an answer to that first. If we don't, we're gonna keep talking past each other like this. On this very specific point, I would like to say the following. The Minister says: if, hypothetically, both chambers find something different, I have a problem, because then the image of an effective and effective government is in danger. That image is already quite compromised, I can say. But can the Minister give me an example where, since the beginning of this crisis, this Chamber has caused delays, confusion or delay in the measures that we felt were necessary in the context of the crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u218	Of course, this is not the case, because no active consent was required for the measures to be taken. By the way, anyone who says that for this reason measures could not be sufficiently relied on sufficient democratic legitimacy is also, of course, wrong. We have taken these measures on the basis of the Wpg, which has really been accepted by both chambers, with opportunities for the cabinet to act in times of crisis. We did it the way we did it. I do not believe that there is a parliament in Europe that has been so active and where a cabinet has been invited on average once every two weeks to discuss what could be different and better. We have done so in the Netherlands. In short, democratic legitimacy has certainly been there. Democratic control has certainly been there, by the way. At a number of times in recent months, the cabinet has been adjusted by the parliament. In response to the question of whether the European Championship has caused delays, you could certainly say that about the App Act, but it is not the case with regard to the adoption of the measures, because these measures do not require parliamentary approval at the moment. That's different now. This law is gonna change that. Therefore, the danger will only arise, the risk will only arise when this law is adopted. But again, the First Chamber does not give any of the powers that it already has, namely the parliamentary debate with the Cabinet. You can do that at any time of the year. However, active ratification of a ministerial arrangement is not necessary. That conclusion also comes from the section of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u219	The Council of State was a bit more reluctant and called it unusual and also different and defendable. I've heard better qualifications from such a far-reaching bill. What matters to me is that I asked for more than just the Minister's own portfolio. With all the measures we have taken here in this Chamber with the cabinet, within a week what had to be done often happened in the case of hammerstroke. Then where does the Minister get the ghost image that this Chamber could get in the way of anything and that you will get a different outcome and so on? It just hasn't happened so far. I really don't understand what the Minister needs this ghost image for. I have already argued myself that I do not think the amendment is a happy idea at all, because I had a much better picture, namely that the cabinet is in accordance with Article 89.4...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u220	What's your question, Mr. Janssen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u221	I assume you'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u222	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u223	Can the Minister give us an example on another portfolio, not his own portfolio, where this Chamber has caused delays over the last seven months?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u224	No, but that's not the core argument I'm making. The basic argument that I put forward is: how could one reconcile both the democratic legitimacy of the future situation, i.e. parliamentary involvement on the one hand, and the ability to act on the other? That's an incredibly complicated puzzle. Part of that puzzle can be found in this bill. Another part of that puzzle you will see in the design of the arrangements. But it's not easy to operate on that in a good way. Of course, the cabinet would like to do justice to that very parliamentary involvement, the decisive parliamentary involvement, you could say, as a co-legislator. On the other hand, of course, you also want to take those measures that are necessary to keep the virus underneath. Then the weighing was made where the primate lies. The primate is in the Lower House. That also supports the Council of State. Then there is the weighting: what if you, as parliaments, come to a different weighting of the ministerial regulation? That is the moment when you can't really go anymore and have to make a new arrangement. That doesn't help in speed. You'll agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u225	Mr Janssen, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u226	Last but not least, very briefly. The Minister always called on a number of MPs in the Lower House to be careful in the formulation. Where the minister now says "Parliament" a few times, he means the House of Representatives. I would ask the Minister to be careful in this, because otherwise there will be a really wrong picture. I can tell you that it is not always easy for this Chamber not to carry out the instrument of motions, even though there is a majority vote in the Chamber. Perhaps the Minister could take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u227	Thank you. Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u228	I note with some disappointment that we have been talking about this for a very long time today, but I feel that we are not progressing an inch. Let me ask the Minister and put the following question to him. I have the feeling that the cabinet, as well as the House of Representatives, are thinking a lot from what I call very carefully suspicion. How often does it happen that in the chambre de réflexion the First Chamber, especially when it comes to fundamental matters... Let's take the example of closing schools. What are the chances that, if the cabinet proposes this in the House of Representatives, who may support it by a clear majority, but at least by a majority, we will say here 'well, we do not think that is such a good idea' or 'we are going to think about it again'. Are there no practical possibilities to act not from suspicion, but to say: if the House of Representatives decides on a Tuesday it is an arrangement and not a law under the rules that are now there, we will discuss that here the same evening briefly and say as a rule that it is good? If it weren't right, that's the right that I think the First Chamber should have. I've been with you for a while and I've never seen a cabinet or a Lower House say: yes, but the First Chamber might think differently and we might not want to. I acknowledge that this is an emergency situation which has not occurred for a very long time. But I would like to appeal urgently to the Cabinet and the Cabinet in connection with the House of Representatives, that we, as a united assembly, take such a decision as is necessary. Such a decision as closing schools should not be ruled out. On the same day, we should all provide a sensible democratic basis. After all, it is a question of restricting one of the greatest fundamental rights, in this case freedom of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u229	In an exceptional situation that will certainly be possible, I think. If you're asking me if it was born of suspicion, well, I don't think so. Nor in the House of Representatives. At least it hasn't been discussed that way. If you read the report of that meeting, you will not find it. I do think there has been some thought about how this should work and how you could design it as practically as possible. That is how this weighting has been achieved, and I support that weighting. As you can see, the Council of State supports them, too. Suppose we take measures, as Mrs De Boer mentioned, for which this law does not provide any basis, measures that are so far-reaching that they are not actually among the possibilities available to the Cabinet under this law. We would indeed be in such a situation as you call it. The request of the cabinet may be that both treatments be carried out in one day, or one day at a time. Then you get a bill through both chambers as soon as possible. I cannot say in advance that we will never make use of it, or that we will not call on the Supreme Court. I do hope that the First Chamber will be open to examining such a request. I am also sure that she will be open to that if it is necessary to combat the virus. I would just like to say that this situation may arise. But this is about the situation, where you structurally regulate how you allow the measures taken by the cabinet to land in measures. That's something that might happen weekly or biweekly. The changes to those arrangements can follow up fairly quickly. I don't think you have any intention of meeting with the Cabinet that often. Then I'll come to the conclusion: even if we meet, we won't get the virus underneath.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u230	Mr Van Rooijen, please be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u231	The example of the schools, yet again. Can the Minister confirm that the closure of schools could possibly be done on the basis of a ministerial arrangement within the context of this law? If so, my group believes that it should be discussed here before schools are closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u232	I think you'll be inviting us at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u233	We can only ask questions and table motions. I would like us to come to an agreement with each other that if such a far-reaching ministerial arrangement were to be reached, the Second and the First Chamber would decide on the same day. I mentioned the example of this €15 own risk in healthcare. I've been through it in the House of Representatives. It was a missionary period, also very special. But that law will be settled within a day. We can do this very simply with a ministerial arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u234	I remember it well. That tasted like more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u235	This was your third interruption, Mr. Van Rooijen. I'm sorry. Finally, the Minister, and then I have to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u236	Yeah, I've already responded to this in some detail. I think I'd start repeating myself. This is the choice that has been made and I think it is a very generous choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u237	You'll find something about it in the second term, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u238	I didn't think I'd asked three questions. I didn't get an answer. I'm asking a question to get an answer. If I repeat it over and over again, it should not be considered as three questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u239	Finally, a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u240	I would like to hear from the Minister whether there is at least the positive attitude to say: if such a tough decision has to be taken, because we cannot rule that out, then the Cabinet, the Second Chamber and the First Chamber will say together in a united meeting a fine term of the Constitution on the same day as democracy: we accept that. Then do not assume that it may not happen and that we would then be an obstacle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u241	This was your question, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u242	The chambers are about their own procedures. That's for starters. If a decision such as this, the fictional example of the need to close schools, has to be taken, then we will have to be very thorough and very well founded. We will only really do it if there is an absolute necessity. We will send this to both chambers in a regulation, with a different competence of both chambers with regard to a similar arrangement. How the debate then takes place is up to Parliament itself. I myself think that we should avoid double debates, so that both the Second Chamber and the First Chamber will discuss something in order that affects the executive, executive, power of the cabinet. You say you can do that together. By then, that will apparently be a procedural proposal towards the House of Representatives. I do not know whether they will immediately be enthusiastic about this. I would think: let us do it as we have done in the past period. We have tried to maintain a biweekly rhythm. We sent the measures we intended to take to the Chambers in a letter of progress. Then we always had the parliamentary debate one day after we proposed these measures. Grosso mode was always supported, except for a number of times. For example, the schools. That wasn't a cabinet proposal. In the end, that was more of a suggestion from the Chamber. Same story with the masks. That too was more a suggestion from the Chamber. For example, I believe that we have been working very closely with Parliament over the last few months and we have always let ourselves, as a cabinet, be challenged by the parliament in bad Dutch language, in order to see whether it can be done otherwise and better. Parliament was critical and has really fulfilled its controlling role. I think this will be the same in the future. In short, this law does not change that in itself. What has changed, however, is that the Cabinet, when it takes measures, will have to put into an arrangement for which the right of ratification rests with the House of Representatives. But the same rights now vested in the First Chamber remain there, as is the case today. That's not gonna cut it down at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u243	I hear the Minister say that the First Chamber is more or less redundant. Now I will not shed any tears on that, given the motion I tabled earlier, but we will be dealing with a state-law novel. The Minister actually says that it is unnecessary to have the same debate twice, because the cabinet has to act as a savior and otherwise, if we are going to meet twice, we will do the virus a service. I think that we have to tell people that the virus is being done a greater service by the failing care policy of the Rutte cabinet, the structurally failing care policy for which this minister is responsible. The test capacity, the ic capacity that is not yet in order after all these months...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u244	Mr. Van Hattem, what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u245	My question is: how can the Minister say in this way that we are doing the virus a service by simply exercising our democratic role here, when he himself is not in order? The second point is that this law concerns longer-term measures, not acute ones. That's how this law was implemented. So if you adopt a ministerial arrangement, you should also have the opportunity to talk about it in both chambers. Then that should not be a reason to say: you are doing the virus a service. I think that's a total misdemeanor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u246	What was the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u247	It was even two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u248	I can repeat it one more time. The question is: how can the Minister maintain here that we are doing the virus a service, while we are exercising our democratic role and he himself does not have his care policy in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u249	And the second question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u250	The second point is that these are longer-term measures. Then you would say that you should also have the time and opportunity to speak carefully about a ministerial arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u251	To begin with, of course, with that last question, we are talking about all the measures you are taking. Only because they will apply for a longer term, because we are in the situation for a longer term that measures need to be taken, say the Council of State, the Cabinet and the House of Representatives that it is necessary to find a different type of legal foundation for the measures you are taking. But it's really about all the measures you're taking. So it is possible that there will be weekly, or biweekly or three-weekly arrangements towards the two Chambers. Well, that's possible. As far as I am concerned about the involvement of the First Chamber, I have answered just as comprehensively. I really have nothing to add to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u252	Finally, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u253	The Minister says there may be weekly or biweekly measures. But that can happen very quickly here. Once again, I hope this law does not come into force, but when it does, it must be possible in a careful way. This can also be done if we have sufficient information to enable us to consider the matter. I heard the Minister later say that on the basis of as many indicators as possible, efforts are being made to take action. So the Minister has certain indicators on which he bases those measures. My question is then: is he also prepared to share these measures with the Chamber and with all the other representatives of the people involved in these measures, such as the municipal councils?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u254	That was your third and last. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u255	You asked this question, but it's in my next block. I would like to raise the question: there have been more similar questions so that you can imagine what the ministerial arrangement looks like. The first ministerial arrangement we want to make takes over the measures that are currently in force. Imagine, for example, that the law will enter into force on 1 December, or perhaps just a little earlier, then the measures currently in force will be transferred into a regulation. But, of course, we have made a road map for a reason. We want to make it predictable in what situation, at what level of infection, we want to take what measures. We have included this in a roadmap and it is ahead of the OMT. The OMT has commented on this and so some changes will follow. We ourselves also believe that we should, in particular, tighten up the severity of the measures for the second level of risk. If you look at the roadmap, it is good to see that it makes it very predictable what measures you are taking, given a certain degree of infection. What we will do is that we will initially start with the regime that contains the measures as they currently apply, and that we will work towards a situation where we have a regime with all the measures you would like to take, given a certain level of contamination. If you act by way of derogation, you'll have to come up with regulations every time. I therefore expect that we will have a basic regulation and that we will periodically come to the Chamber with measures that differ from it and that we will always argue it well. I am therefore very much in favour of what you are saying with that part of your first term, namely that you have to look at each time, given the level of infection, the indicators, whether some measures are proportionate and then take them. So that's how I feel about it, and that's how we want to do it. For the masks we will make a separate arrangement, because it requires something else in the technique and in the support. But that will be a separate arrangement. As soon as the law enters into force, I expect two arrangements: the current regime plus a system for mouth caps. The measures will eventually be replaced by a system which will have to contain all the measures, given the level of contamination at a certain level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u256	A few weeks ago, here in the First Chamber, we handled the law on the corona app very vigorously. Did I hear the Minister say in his argument that the First Chamber delayed the handling of that law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u257	Well, no, that's silly. It was asked whether it ever happened that it took several weeks. Yeah, that happened back then. That wasn't super fast, but we're not gonna talk about that anymore. The CoronaMelder is in operation and we have had that debate in a good way. Moreover, that was not an argument, not even in the House of Representatives, for the amendment as tabled. So I shouldn't involve that, because that wouldn't be fair. What matters is that the House of Representatives has said: how could it work if, on the one hand, you want to organize parliamentary involvement in a serious way and, on the other hand, you want to act quickly and keep up your act?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u258	In general, I don't like you-bake, but I'm gonna do it now. You were the one who told the Netherlands that you wanted to come quickly with a corona app. Then we had to wait a long time for that, because it all did not go well. After that, we discussed it very carefully here in the Chamber. I find absolutely unconvincing for your argument that the First Chamber has caused delays.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u259	Yeah, what am I supposed to say about this? Perhaps it is not wise to do the evaluation here, but the app was finished on 15 August and introduced on 15 October. Let's just say it was a little from both sides. Shall we close it like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u260	I would like to come back to what happened in the House of Representatives. You have so clearly told us that the Council of State has taken the view that the Upper House has been discussed in the House of Representatives. When I read all the parts of the House of Representatives, I do not read that they have all considered that the First Chamber should participate because there are 75 representatives of the people there. I didn't find any of that. Has it ever occurred to you that this is how it happened? We're building a whole story around it now that it has to go faster. I don't think there's been a minute's thought in that entire Lower House about the position or the help of the Upper Chamber. So we can have very long stories about that with each other, but it hasn't been discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u261	So your question is whether it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u262	I don't think so. I know it's been discussed. Amendments have even been tabled on them, but they have not been accepted. I can't help it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u263	So that's the point. As a result, a construction was created. Those amendments didn't make it and they didn't think it was necessary for the First Chamber to participate. But that is what led to the idea that the First Chamber no longer has to play a role in this. And that is exactly what we are talking about today: that we do want to play a role as First Chamber, because here there are 75 representatives of the people, and 150 in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u264	What's the question, Mr. Van Pareren?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u265	The question is simply: why isn't there a search for support in this? They're just looking for arguments, why that slows down and why they're actually a part-time club, and stuff like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u266	Those are certainly not words I would use, nor words used in the House of Representatives. I think I have just explained what the balance has been, as it has been discussed in the House of Representatives. And I follow that consideration, I understand that consideration, and I think it is sensible. The Council of State also considers it to be followable, explaining that it might be problematic for both chambers to reach a different conclusion with regard to a settlement. That would create a clumsy positioning; what would you do? Anyway, that whole law doesn't limit anything of the powers that the Supreme Court has. I think that's also important to establish. For it is important that both parliaments should be able to exercise their influence over government policy, have a controlling role vis-à-vis the cabinet and, I believe, can and will make full use of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u267	Mr. Van Pareren, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u268	I would remind you that the part-time Parliament was mentioned in the answer to the questions. So you may not have named it yourself, but it has occurred throughout the 94 pages long piece, in answering one of the questions for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u269	We'll check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u270	Today, the First Chamber is asked to vote in favour of a law. That law states that the person who resides outside of a home keeps a safe distance from other persons. So that's an obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u271	Just a minute. Mr. Meijer, I hear you're talking. Then you need to come to the interrupting microphone, because you started screaming just now. Mr. Nicolaï, would you be so kind as to hand over these for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u272	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u273	Mr President, I asked Mr Otten to comply with the one and a half meter measure. I'm sorry I did that so hard, I interrupted the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u274	No problem. Then we'll know what it was about. Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u275	I will continue my speech. If it's up to the government, we're going to adopt a law that states that whoever stays outside a home must respect a safe distance from other people. We have been presented with a general measure of governance that will be 1.5 metres. How can I, as a group, judge whether I can agree to this law if it does not reflect the content of the restriction of fundamental rights? 'Cause what does it turn out to be? At the time when the AMvB and this law are to apply, a few cases apply to everyone, except for those couples mentioned in Article 58f (3), the requirement that they should be respected. That goes for everyone: for the boys on the street, if I want to sit on a couch with my granddaughter and so on. The Minister may waive that requirement; that is in those exemption decisions. However, we cannot, as the First Chamber, say that we agree with these exemption decisions. So what the Minister is actually telling us right now is: "Vote with a provision that says that everyone is not allowed to do anything anymore, but I'm going to make exceptions to that later. But wait and see what they'll be, but you can't talk about that."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u276	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u277	Is the analysis I'm giving you right now or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u278	No, it's incorrect. In the next block I go into how that works with those exemptions. It's wrong. If you agree to the law, you have not agreed to all the exemptions and so on. You'll just be sent that arrangement. So it's not like this is the last time you've been allowed to find out about it. You can find something about that on any day of the year. By a majority, you can even send the cabinet on the road by means of a motion. So it is certainly not the last time you can have an opinion on this. On the contrary. Only, it's true that you don't have the "Ratification right" that belongs to the House of Representatives. You asked a question about that too. You simply have your own parliamentary options. That's what the Council of State says. I think it is important to underline this, because otherwise it would make you sad, if this law were to give you less powers. That's not true. You just keep all the powers you already have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u279	Perhaps the Minister has misunderstood my question and I need to explain it more clearly. When we agree to this law, we say that safe distance must be respected. By now we know that this is 1.5 meters, because that AMvB has already been submitted to us. That goes for everyone, except for a few cases. We don't know what that minister's gonna do in his exemption, so you can kick a ball or do this or that. We are therefore giving a blank mandate. If we agree, we are actually saying that it is simply forbidden and that we have to wait and see what the Minister will exempt from it. And besides, the exemption...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u280	Mr. Nicolaï, what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u281	My question was: right...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u282	Sorry, it's starting to look a little like a second term. Interruptions are intended to be brief and to raise a clearer question. Soon you will receive a second term, for which you can register. Then you can respond extensively. I would ask you, however, to confine yourself to a brief question. You need to press the button again, because you are not audible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u283	The short question is: if we say yes, is it true that we do not really know what exemptions the Minister is going to grant?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u284	It is true that at the moment you do not know the arrangements that are about to come. The question you just asked was: is it true that we have nothing more to say about it after that? Well, that's not true, because I'm sending these arrangements to both chambers. Both chambers can then meet with the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u285	Finally, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u286	No, that wasn't my question. The Minister has said that it is true that you are now, in fact, simply giving a blank yes. I said I don't know if there's gonna be another exemption or what's gonna be in there. Imagine theoretically that there will be no exemptions at all, and I have agreed that no one should be at a distance of 1.5 metres.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u287	A few things: of course, you would not be able to agree to this law. You could do that. If a majority of the First Chamber does not agree to this law, then it will not be the law and we will continue the way we are dealing with it now, on the basis of the instructions and the emergency regulations. I think you all think that this is not the intention, because this is not the way in which we want to provide measures with a sufficiently democratically motivated foundation. That is an element, either in response to your question or in agreement with a blank cheque. Two. Let us not pretend now that it is the first time that you have been put to the vote with a law in which the regulations are not yet complete. In fact, the areas of life in which the cabinet has the ability to take measures are limited by this law. Therein this law is bound. You ask how and how the exemptions are regulated. We will do so by ministerial arrangement. As soon as we do this, we will forward it to the Chambers. Then the Chambers can both have a view on that. I actually think it's going according to the rules of art. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u288	Mrs. De Boer and then we'll go to dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u289	I'll try to be brief. I hope that the Minister's answer may shed some light in this darkness. I understand Mr Nicolaï's question very well, because I myself asked a similar question with regard to the prohibition of contact. The problem is that this law imposes a restriction and makes the exception to the restriction per ministerial arrangement, while other measures contain the restrictions in the ministerial arrangements. With the exceptions to the safe distance, it is the other way around. If the House of Representatives agrees, or if we have a debate and table motions, then it is hard for us to make those restrictions any less serious. That's where it gets a little rough. The question is therefore whether the Minister sees it as an opportunity to be presented to us as such an exception, to take initiatives from the Lower House or from the Upper House to increase the exceptions. I think that's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u290	Yeah, I definitely see that as a possibility. I'm sure that's going to happen. More questions have been asked about customization and the possibilities for local customization. Mr Ollongren will deal with this in a moment. I certainly think that debate will follow. I was just looking for your question, because it's in there. At the safe distance, a number of exceptions are already provided for in the legal text itself. Those are actually the most likely exceptions. It is indeed possible that you may declare further exceptions to this. That will also have to do with the level of contagion. Sometimes it's about exceptions that we didn't have on the retina when making the law and that are just necessary to make society function somewhat. Sometimes you can also say on the basis of the level of contamination: you might actually be able to deal with the safe distance in that particular situation. However, I do not think I am going to make many exceptions at that safe distance. I don't think so. It seems clumsy to do that. That will be especially in the situations where it is just a little weird to actually apply that safe distance and we have not been able to provide for the law. That which we have been able to provide for in the law, we have also just recorded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u291	Is the Minister still going into my question about restraining contact? When I read the law, I'm afraid an exception must be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u292	Yeah, I'll get to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u293	We're gonna suspend for dinner break in five minutes. Maybe you could take those five minutes...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u294	Maybe I can still use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u295	Those are your words.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u296	Mr President, to think... I think it's fair to say the following out loud. Just before we started, we wondered whether the role of the First Chamber is actually no longer part of the portfolio of our colleague from the Interior, because of the fundamental aspects of the law and so on. Maybe that's how we should have done it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u297	She will have the opportunity to speak in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u298	We'll fight that out later. I come to the power of the VWS Minister to decide to transfer the mayor's powers to the chairman of the security region. Can the government promise that that type of decision will be submitted to both chambers within two days? The answer is: yes, of course we will. One of the questions was the following. If there is no ministerial regulation regulating exceptions to the 1.5 metres, if no regulation is adopted, then the two chambers can, of course, urge the Minister to do so. You can take a motion to that effect. It is then up to the Minister to see whether, and in what way, that request can be followed up. Furthermore, everything we have just said about this applies. The SGP and the PVV asked to what extent the Minister could continue to use urgent opinions. Why would everything have to be by law? I very much agree with them, very much. I have also been quite disturbed by the discussions over the past few weeks, which I think we have made up too much. These were discussions about the measures themselves and about their severity and depth, rather than about the severity and depth of the virus. It has always been said that this is only an urgent opinion. That was like not taking it seriously, as if it weren't serious then, and something is only true when it's in a law. I've always learned that when you cross the street you have to look left, then right and then left again. Then you cross the street. That was urgent advice, in this case from my mother, not RIVM or something. My mother was right about that. If I hadn't, I probably wouldn't have been here before you. My mom was just right about that pretty essential, urgent advice. For example, there are quite essential, urgent opinions, such as the urgent advice to wash your hands. That's just very important. You can't do it either. You'll get sick. There is no boa next to the crane to see if you have done it often enough, but it is an urgent advice that is just very sensible to follow. For example, there are many urgent advices in life, which are very sensible to follow. I also believe that in this way we should not take part in an undermining of this and in undermining of the strength of this type of urgent advice. Just stick to it. This is without prejudice to the fact that you will sometimes have to incorporate a number of things into a law. In the end, in order to maintain the clarity and enforceability of the measures, we have opted for a mandatory design for the masks. That has to do with the following. If everyone is already arguing about this, it is of course a bit of Dutch stuffing about the measures on purpose not wearing a mouth cap in the supermarket and already aerosoling behind a box filler, then it is quite complicated for that box filler to say: I think you should wear a mouth cap. That was the urgent opinion of the RIVM. Moreover, we have not only seen situations in supermarkets where this has apparently led to complex scenes. That is why we have said: let's do it. But if you ask me, I would have said quite frankly: I would have hoped that an urgent opinion would have been sufficient to do so. The Prime Minister has rightly explained more often that it helps. It's not a miracle cure. It helps a little bit, but all added up, especially in a situation of high infection, can certainly help to get that virus underneath. Can the VWS Minister indicate on what grounds the temporary law will be extended if only the number of infections is involved? That was a 50PLUS question. We're not just looking at the number of infections. I assume that we will be in the situation for the time being that additional measures are needed, but we are also looking, even if the infections are low, at what is happening around us in the world. I remember that just before the summer holidays it was estimated that the number of infectious people in the Netherlands was 3.000. There were 3,000 people in the Netherlands jumping around in the Netherlands if it was okay, of course they stayed at home with complaints! - Oh, my God. - Oh, my God. - Oh, my God. That was super low, but by now there are estimated to be around 150,000 and perhaps even more people contagious. Well, then you have a pretty good chance of running into someone like that. That's 1 in 110 or 1 in 120. Well, I think the betas should take a good look at that, but the odds of running into someone like that are huge. The number of infectious agents at some point is therefore quite important. It's really not just about the number of positive infected people coming out of the test street. But even when this very low level of contamination was at issue in the Netherlands, we saw that it was peaking in a great way in America. It was also peaking in Brazil in a great way. This virus just waves around the world and it will continue to do so until we are sufficiently protected with each other. I hope that will be through a vaccine, because I think that is the most logical and hopeful scenario. I'll say a few more things about it in a moment. But until then, it will simply be necessary to take measures. We will also argue in the direction of your Chamber why it remains necessary to opt for an extension of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u299	Thank you, Minister. As agreed, I'm going to suspend until 7:40 for dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u300	I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u301	Mr. Chairman. Let's start with a positioning: where were we again in the answer? I had the answer divided into three blocks. The first is the necessity, the why, of the law, the design associated with it and the parliamentary involvement. The second block concerns the content of the law. And the third block consists of questions that mainly concern the corona file, but not so much about the law itself. I was halfway there. Well, I wasn't halfway; that's lame. I would have stayed at the first block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u302	You were already at the contents, weren't you? The parliamentary involvement was completed, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u303	Sure, sure, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u304	For the record, we are currently more than an hour behind on the planned end time of midnight. If we're not going to make a big cut right now, it's gonna be 1:00 a.m. at the earliest. I can't believe everyone knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u305	Thank you for this encouragement, Mr President. Then I'm gonna get to work. Mr Van Dijk said: even when a vaccine has been found, measures are likely to be needed for months to come. He asked: how long is such a situation justified and what perspective can we offer to those who fear that we will never get rid of the measures? That is a fair question, which we hear quite a lot. The short-term perspective is that it succeeds to make much more possible than is now possible, if we are able to keep the virus underneath with our behavior. For the longer term, we as a world population are only really protected if there is a vaccine or if the treatments are so incredibly better that the severity and damage of corona are much less. But you want to keep people from getting sick. So I sincerely hope that there are at least a number of effective and effective specimens between all those vaccines that we now have in the race. I hope so. That's the perspective. But the perspective for the shorter term is that there is much more possible again if we can break that wave with each other and make sure that we get back into control, even though that virus isn't gone yet. Mrs De Boer asked what would happen if the measures relating to keeping safe distance were no longer proportionate, but the other measures: should the safe distance be set at zero? If the need for a adopted measure has lapsed in the light of scientific knowledge, the legislative proposal requires that the measure be amended or withdrawn. The same applies to the determination of safe distance. The bill explicitly states that, if the safe distance can be reduced or set at zero, the government must do so. That is the proportionality test contained in the legislative proposal. Mr Van Rooijen asked what the direct threat to society is, including in relation to Article 103 of the Constitution: when will the bells ring that indicate a state of emergency? There are no fixed criteria for declaring a state of emergency. It is not therefore a question of a certain number of infections, hospitalisations or deceased persons. It must be extraordinary circumstances. But not every crisis like this leads to the exceptional state of affairs in Article 103 of the Constitution. Emergency legislation was deliberately not chosen. The Council of State, in its information on 25 May, pointed out that it was wise not to do so in the context of the spring season. It recommended choosing the lightest form, namely on the basis of the Wpg, with a designation and emergency regulations. The law now before us is a temporary law for this crisis, but it is not the use of emergency legislation as referred to in Article 103 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u306	I would have liked to ask a question before the suspension. It fits in with what the minister just said. My question is: then what criterion is determining? You've got contagions, hospitalizations, I.C.T.s, the number of deaths and whatever. My point was what is ultimately the determining criterion for what is a state of emergency, even if there is an extension in three months' time. That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u307	We need to keep two things apart. There is no state of emergency as referred to in Article 103 of the Constitution. Then you're gonna open a whole different chapter. That's exactly what we didn't do. We have chosen the lightest form, namely this temporary law. Of course, you must be able to justify the need for this. Its need is the presence of the virus, a life-threatening virus that we can only keep in check in one way, namely by observing a number of measures in any case. Whichever they may be, shall be appointed and classified in this Act. The type of measures which the cabinet intends to take should therefore be taken on these issues. Therefore, the number of measures which the Cabinet wishes to take should not be taken on all issues that have not been appointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u308	Mr President, you understand the background to the question. If we as the First Chamber are not involved, it is all the more important that we know at least what the main criterion is for the question of which ministerial regulation the Cabinet submits to the Second Chamber. That is the thrust of my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u309	As far as the need for this bill is concerned, the presence of the virus, of which we know how life-threatening it is, is simply true. That is the need for the law. So if the virus isn't gone in three months' time, we'll actually give it to the KB extension as a basis. That's about the necessity of the law. With regard to the measures themselves, I have just said to your colleague from the PVV that we want to take them because of the degree of contamination. We will provide a number of criteria, such as the level of contagion as a whole, but certainly also the number of positive test results, the percentage of positive test results, the number of hospitalisations and so on. On the basis of the context of the level of contamination, we determine what measures are necessary. In the first ministerial arrangement that we will be presenting, that will be the overhang of the current emergency regulation measures in the first scheme. There will be an arrangement for the mouth caps. Those are two arrangements starting with this way of working. Next, we will submit to the Chambers the measures that we want to work with in the basic regulation, in line with the Roadmap. It states, per level of risk, that there are a number of indicators, which should at least be taken in order to return to a level of infection below 7 per 100 000. That is basically the norm that applies in the Netherlands and Germany. That is the standard set out in the Roadmap. Every time, at any level of risk, you take the measures necessary to return to level 1, which is less than 7 infections per 100,000 inhabitants per day. Mr Nicolaï has asked two questions about Rule 58b. He asked whether the said powers would only be applied if necessary, and that it would not be sufficient for the Minister to consider them appropriate. It was about the scientific necessity being demonstrated. This has already been addressed in the note on the report. The necessity test used here is consistent with the case law developed on the ECHR and other human rights conventions. However, neither the European and international human rights conventions nor the Constitution require that a measure restricting freedom can be taken only if it is sufficiently established, according to generally accepted scientific standards, that the measure is effective. At the time of the assessment, the government will have its own discretion, a so-called margin of appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u310	My question in my contribution today was another one. If it has not yet been scientifically established that a particular means or measure is effective, then the question is whether that means that you cannot apply such a measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u311	No, it can't mean that. Of course, we want to move towards the latest state of science. Of course it is. But you will also have to take measures that you have the reasonable suspicion that they can work, but which you have not yet been able to establish with any certainty. Only then will the Chambers question the cabinet more critically about the added value of its need. Why don't you take the schools again in the spring? It was really hard to prove that closing the schools would help us in suppressing the virus. However, it was the explicit wish of the Chamber to do so, but more so from the precautionary principle. The precautionary principle may sometimes require that you take measures that you are not sure of in advance, scientifically proven that it actually works, but that you feel compelled to do so as a precaution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u312	I can imagine a measure such as that mentioned by the Minister. But I'm just talking about making a mouth cap or a ventilation system compulsory. Those are technical things. If the science of that says that it has not been technically proven to be effective at all, is my question whether you can actually prescribe it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u313	Finally, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u314	Well, you can, but in that case, we'll have a more complicated rubbert to fight with the Chamber, I guess. Because the Chamber will ask us about that. But it's possible. It has to be possible. With the mouth caps it is also a bit different. The Chamber is a little more enthusiastic about that obligation, at least that was initially so much so than the cabinet. But this also applies of course that you can reason that it does something at a high level of infection. At a low level of contamination, it is very difficult to argue that its added value is very high. That's how the OMT has always advised us. We are committed to acting as a cabinet on the basis of the latest insights of the Outbreak Management Team, which always advises us on the latest state of science. There's always a moving insight into that. Next, in addition to the proportionality it has to involve in the weighting, cabinet always has to respect the precautionary principle. It must therefore be possible to include in the cabinet's arsenal what you can reasonably suspect is of added value, even before it has been scientifically proven beyond doubt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u315	May I ask you to resume the argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u316	Yes. This is the first block I've had, Mr. Chairman. Then I will move on to the second block, with the measures and everything related to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u317	How long do you think you'll need about that? I'm just asking for the timing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u318	That depends a little on the interruptions, but I'm guessing 20 minutes net.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u319	And then you have another block?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u320	Yeah, ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u321	That's half an hour. I'm gonna take a look at the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. She says half an hour. So now we're an hour and a half behind schedule. Let me say this for the Members. The scheduled end time is at this time 01.30 a.m. tonight. Can you take that into account? And if there are any interruptions, they add up to that. Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u322	Mr. Chairman. The cube is ready, but there is one more bone in my throat that I would like to ask the Minister about. At the very beginning he said: it can't actually work well if the Upper House finds something other than the Lower House. In my group's view, that is the essence of a two-chamber system. I understand the amendment itself in such a way that it does not work as a matter of urgency. In that sense, I can understand that amendment. But if the Minister says more generally that the two Chambers cannot think otherwise, because they cannot work otherwise, then I have a big problem with his statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u323	Thanks! It is, of course, very good that Mr Recourt mentions it again, because that is not the way I meant to say it, of course. This is precisely in relation to urgency. If there's an urgent matter, it's very impractical to have two opposing opinions. By the way, of course, this two-chamber system always allows the Upper House to find something different from the Lower House. Usually that's not a problem, except for the fact that a bill dies. Then you start over. If there is no rush, that is not a point, because then it is exactly as it should be. But in this case, of course, the point is that you consider measures necessary given the spread of the virus and the increasing level of infection. You have to take measures to get the R back under one. You're taking those measures. The House of Representatives is okay with that and therefore endorses it. Then, for example, the First Chamber could say: we do not think so. Then the two Chambers are opposite each other and in the meantime you cannot take any measures, because that will remove the measure you were planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u324	Now we're going to repeat ourselves. Now we go back to parliamentary involvement and we closed it. I call on you to do this in the second term. We will have 14 speakers in the second term, so you can go into that in detail, but preferably not by interrupting now. Mr Janssen is going to do that, probably.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u325	A very brief question to clarify. I still lack answers and I do not know who is going to answer my questions about the involvement in the extension of the law and about the ratification, the discussion I have called for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u326	I'm just gonna get it out of my head. I did hear this in the last block, so I'm gonna take it out of my head. First of all, with regard to the extension. It goes by KB. We will simply send an extension plan to both Chambers. That is where you have a similar parliamentary involvement at the time. Then on ratification: how does it work? We come up with a ministerial arrangement. When it is not dealt with because the Chamber says it does not have to deal with it because it speaks for itself and it is actually a logical measure, then it is a choice of the Chamber not to treat it at that time, and then it becomes effective after eight days. Unless there has been an emergency use, because then it is already in force and then the Chamber leaves it in force; then it works in that way. If the Chamber wishes to take an active decision on the non-applicability of the measures, the Chamber may convene a meeting and thus declare that the proposal is not being ratified, and then it will lapse immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u327	Mr. Janssen, finally on this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u328	All right, let's finish. It was two questions and two answers. The latter therefore means that where the Minister is talking all the time about active ratification, which is not the issue, but only the active non-appointment, and that also what the Council of State has advised on that point I have given the quotes... I understand that comes through the Home Secretary. And the first point. I just heard the Minister say very briefly that Article 103 of the Constitution is not on the table here. But when we look at the constitutional restrictions, for example, on the profession of faith and on the right of association, the measures taken are de facto discussed. So my question was: no, we don't have a state of emergency, we don't have justice, but de facto we do, because we take similar measures in the limitations of creed and also the right to association.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u329	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u330	The first question I asked: would it not therefore be logical to leave the extension to the States-General of the two Chambers, as provided for in Article 103 of the Constitution, paragraph 3?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u331	Thank you. And then I suggest that we let the Minister finish his last block, and then save the interruptions for afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u332	Do you mind if I come back to that separately? 'Cause this is a rather legal question that I don't have ready for a while. Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u333	It can also be done in second term, if you wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u334	Mr Ollongren will return to that point. Look, we do it as a team. So beautiful, so incredibly beautiful... I have already explained how I see the arrangements in front of me, so for the sake of short, I can skip the questions. Mr Van Dijk and Mr Meijer also ask how does it actually take shape in this temporary law? Mr Ollongren will be discussing local customization shortly. But, of course, where we are trying to set out the whole road map in a single scheme so that it is predictable what degree of contamination will apply in any case, it is also logical that, at a low level of contamination, you can allow more room for customisation than at a high level of contamination. So as you reach a higher level of contagion risk, the room for customization will decrease. But the lower the risk of infection, the bigger the room for customization will be. The information-driven work, which I think Mr Van Hattem is right to emphasise, is therefore exactly what we are going to do and what we want to do. Then the closure of the catering business. Mr Van Hattem asked about the justification. Well, you can argue that from the hospitality records. But the reason that the catering industry as a whole is closed in the last package of measures, why we also called it a "partial lockdown," is that, since you are now in such a degree of contamination, there is actually only one solution to dampen that level of contamination, and that is to reduce the number of contacts and movements. And you actually do that by running a variant on a lockdown. That's what happened to the catering industry. If you are in a low risk of infection or in a low level of infection, then you have the possibility, where the virus pops up, to put it back in the head, and actually to act completely outbreak-oriented. And then you can actually go to a café where there is an outbreak, just through source and contact research, but also by closing a café, for example, because apparently the rules have not been complied with, get the outbreak controlled. That's what happened when the infection rate was so low. But now that it's so high, the hospitality industry as a whole is causing so many movements that if you close it, you actually dampen the risk of infection. Apart from that, the clusters in a cluster break in the catering industry are on average much larger than for example the clusters at home. There was also a significant increase in the number of infected catering workers. In the last week prior to closure, there were many positive infections in the test street at the hospitality worker's professional group. In addition, the catering industry is very often a source of primary contamination. The cluster will be at home, but let's say the two of us were at the bar, I infected you, we both went home, and we both infected our family. The two of us aren't clusters, because that's from three, but our families are clusters. So they count twice as a cluster at home, while the source of primary contamination was the catering industry. I can't justify that numerically, but it's also very common. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u335	Mr. Van Hattem, a quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u336	Yeah, a quick question. Thanks to the Minister for the explanatory statement, but the question remains somewhat open. The impact is difficult to measure, but the whole catering sector is now being addressed in one breath as a specific sector, while there are plenty of other sectors where people meet, such as in shops and schools, which are still open.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u337	What's your short question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u338	Then my question is: why specifically the whole of the catering industry, including, for example, the restaurants, which have been clearly stated that there is no demonstrable need to close them? That is precisely where they took all the measures to prevent contamination. That is where good behavior is punished instead of rewarded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u339	I understand what you're saying, but there are two things. You want to reduce the movement at all. During the discussion about our decision, we had variants on the table: can we keep it limited to only the catering industry or should we go further? Two. In the future you would like to have a variant in which you do the wet but not the dry catering, as one would call it in Belgium, so the cafés but not the restaurants. That is legally very complicated at the moment, because you can often eat something in a café. Is it a restaurant or a café, et cetera? That is legally complicated at the moment, but Mr Wiebes is looking at whether you could deal with the catering industry more differently, because you might want to do so in the future, or if you want to scale it down. I say it with great caution, because I do not want to create hope, but I do think that we should think about whether there are other scenarios; certainly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u340	Do you have another question, Mr. Van Hattem? I actually asked for the interruptions to be kept to the end of the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u341	Yes, very briefly. But from now on, I'm gonna take it easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u342	You have a follow-up question, so go ahead, but that is the general call.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u343	Then I'll be very brief. The Minister says he's going to see if he can do it in the future, perhaps more information-oriented as well. But then there's the question of how far it's gonna be in the future. The sector is currently out of revenue. The water is on their lips. So it's easy to say: we're going to look into it in the future. If that's in three months' time, the number of bankruptcies is probably not counting on a lot of hands anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u344	I understand very well what Mr Van Hattem is saying. We want to say a little more tomorrow about how we expect the braking path of the reduction of the virus to look like: if the rate of infection has actually taken the bend, how long will the brake be? But I'm not going to anticipate that right now. Secondly, of course, you are absolutely right: if the catering industry has to operate in this way for months to come, that is of course very gloomy. For that reason alone you would like to see what could possibly be possible as a first step, if we have now fallen considerably. That's how my colleague Wiebes looks at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u345	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u346	Mr Van Hattem: can the VWS Minister indicate how he will avoid arbitrariness in the application of 58d? The President of the Security Region shall not in principle have the power to give effect to the powers conferred on the Mayor by this Chapter. 58d provides that this point of departure may be broken in circumstances by a decision of the VWS Minister to that effect. A nomination for such a decision may be made by the President of the Security Region. Then it's about threatening over-local effects. They may require the President to be empowered. How can you abuse it? I have to say: to prevent arbitrariness? This will be subject to the usual obligation to state reasons, which will apply to all decisions. Then there is the fourth paragraph of Rule 58: a question from Mr Janssen. It follows from the answer that the cabinet is still investigating this. The SP Group concludes that the provision is in any case a dead letter. Does the cabinet agree with Mr Janssen? No, on the contrary. Article 58f lays down the safe distance standard. That Article also lays down a number of exceptions to that standard of conduct. It is also possible to make further exceptions under the scheme for other cases where keeping a safe distance is not necessary or difficult to effect. Its development depends, among other things, on current scientific knowledge. Although no measures have yet been identified which could offer an equivalent level of protection as keeping the safe distance, research is being carried out into alternatives that could work as such. For this reason, the provision is included in the temporary law. It is not a dead letter; at least we hope that it does not have to be. In view of the impact on the economy and society, is the Minister prepared to provide the one-and-a-half meter measure with the latest scientific evidence, Mr Van Dijk asks. Of course. The law expressly calls for this. We're gonna have to keep doing that actively. Paying attention to the mental health of citizens. The CDA would also like to see these interests taken into account in the preamble. We support the importance of involving other interests in the decision-making process on the measures necessary to protect the economy, including, of course, the mental and emotional health of citizens. For this reason, an integrated balance of interests is always found in the development of the measures. In order to ensure this balance of interests, we have chosen to do the arrangement ourselves with the three of us within the cabinet, plus the ruler who is concerned, having heard the feelings of the Council of Ministers. This seems to be a rather special provision in the establishment of ministerial arrangements. We usually do that as trade ministers ourselves. But here, through the MR, we detect the feelings of the colleagues and pull together the three of us in determining them. This has been the case in recent times, albeit not in the form of a regulation, but with that way of working. Mr Van Dijk asked about the vaccination obligation. This bill does not provide a basis for a vaccination obligation. Mr Van Dijk says: yes, but it might be so that institutions - he himself mentioned airlines - are going to ask at some point whether you have been vaccinated. I can imagine that question, because vaccination will go at different stages. Once we have an effective vaccine, we'll never have it for the whole population. We have agreed in the European Union that the Netherlands will receive 3.89% of each delivery. That is precisely in proportion to our population. And so we will have to proceed to vaccination phase by phase. It will therefore last for at least a few months and parts of society will also be vaccinated for months and do not share. Of course, you start with the most vulnerable people. Let's advise on that. Mr Van Dijk's presentation is therefore, on its own, real. The law does not provide a basis for imposing an absolute obligation. The government cannot impose an obligation. An absolute obligation is also not possible for others simply on the basis of this law. I can imagine, thinking aloud, that a nursing home at some point says: we know that some of our residents haven't been vaccinated yet and if you haven't been vaccinated, it's wise not to work with these residents for a while. It could be. That's conceivable. But that is de facto not a vaccination obligation, but rather a form of protection provided by institutions. Mr Recourt spoke about the balance of interests between visit and prevention. This right is granted to the professionalism of employees. It may well be that that creates tension in such an institution. That's actually happening in the course of the day. That's something to worry about. That is what Mr Recourt is asking us to do, and that is what politics is asking us to do, because that is what Mr Recourt is asking us to do. I think the Chamber will do the same. The amendment has a balance sheet in the explanatory statement, as it has been made. The visitation right on the one hand, sure. There may be a situation in which it is impossible to implement it. This possibility is mentioned in this amendment. I believe that this is what I stand for at the moment when employees come to that consideration, albeit if you do want the family and relatives to be taken into account in that consideration as well as possible. I think that's important, too. How far can institutions go when visitors refuse to wash their hands, wear a mouth cap or keep a distance of 1.5 metres? Can institutions refuse access to these visitors and, if so, on what grounds? The answer is: yes, that can be done, namely on the basis of the mandate of institutions to comply with the Wkkgz, where safe care is the professional standard. That's just the legal standard. You can rely on that as an institution and institutions are also called upon by the inspection. It can be asked: how come that virus has entered again; you saw that coughing visitor come in all the time? Then you can't say: yes, I saw but I couldn't help it. There is no such thing, because you have to take care of the safety of others. So you have an individual consideration, but you also have to make a collective assessment all the time. This is also the difficult task for administrators and employees of institutions. Of course, you have to give as much space as possible to the individual who, if he is willingly able, may choose to take the risk himself. But whether it's in a disability care facility or in a nursing home, the point is that living groups take responsibility not only for themselves, but for the whole group. That is the incredibly complex balance that institutional administrators face. Mrs De Boer asks if we are investigating and monitoring measures. We are, of course, doing so. Can the government undertake to take into account the vulnerable and the impact of the policy on vulnerable groups? We are doing so very emphatically. Not everything is immediately supported by scientific research, but we do so anyway by keeping a very close touch with all the representatives of those vulnerable groups, in order to keep their eyes on the policy closely connected with all the steps we are taking. That is one of the reasons why we said that the ban on visits, as was the case for nursing home care, was perhaps necessary in that situation, but that we really should not do so anymore. This does not take into account its downside, i.e. its negative effects. In that respect, we have already adapted our policies. We're really holding a finger on the wrist. The age distinction calls Mr Van Rooijen of 50PLUS. That doesn't give rise to anything of a two-track society, he asks. Isn't that age discrimination? In order to take measures, it may be necessary to distinguish between age and, for example, 1.5 metres. We are already making a distinction in this respect. In primary school this rule does not apply and in secondary school that rule does not apply to students among themselves, but between pupils and their teacher. I think that's important. It doesn't apply at all to children up to 13 years old, even outside. That's the kind of age distinction you'd like to make, if substantiated, of course. Then there is no age discrimination, because a justified distinction is made. Maybe you mean if it could ever be a reason, as you sometimes hear, to put vulnerable groups behind the geraniums a little bit more, so that the rest can just move on with his life. Now I will summarize it very briefly, but the cabinet has often said that it is not going to do so. Then you get a two-track society that you absolutely shouldn't want. That does not depend on whether it is practicable. The answer to that question is no, because if you look at the group that you might consider vulnerable to this virus, it is millions of people, perhaps between 3 and 5 million people. You can't ask such a large part of society to take a break. It just doesn't work that way. Besides, that's not how society works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u347	Mr. Van Rooijen, a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u348	In particular, I asked that question, given that we had previously had the issue of code black, the triage and medical practitioners who were almost ready to take that step among themselves. Luckily, the cabinet didn't do that. That is what my point of view was. I would like the Minister to confirm that medical practitioners still have the first word, but certainly not discriminated against on the basis of age outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u349	Well, let me get that question right away. That was a question that I believe was asked by Mr Nicolaï. At the moment, this professional standard is in consultation. We see this as a professional standard of the sector itself. But at some point you might end up in a situation, if the wave goes so high and it doesn't manage to scale up any more ic-spots, that you're actually asking the crew of the ic's, the doctor's at the time, to choose on non-medical grounds. Choosing on medical grounds means you're looking at whether anyone has a chance of graduating on the ic at all. That is really up to the doctors themselves, of course in accordance with the family. But if a choice has to be made because of a shortage of beds, there is no medical ground, but you should provide another ground. The cabinet believes that at that time you also have other factors to take into account. At the moment, this professional standard is in consultation. Once that consultation is completed, it will be offered to the IGJ. We have always said that if the final version of the consultation is that there will really be a hard age limit, the cabinet will then come up with further legislation to clarify the principle of non-discrimination. We are therefore of the opinion that you would not be able to choose only by age.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u350	Mr Van Rooijen, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u351	Do I hear the Minister say that he will come forward with further legislative proposals on this matter? So not with a ministerial arrangement, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u352	No, I think that will eventually require further legislation. The possibility to distinguish by age has come only because the OMT said that the rules for adults are actually very strong, but for children very much less. We know that the level of contagion is only beginning to rise from the second half of the vote, i.e. from 15 to 17 years. There's a serious increase in contamination levels. This is not yet the case in primary schools. So generic rules should allow you to exclude children, just on the basis of their content. Your concern is at the point whether that can also lead to a two-stream society. I'm saying this can't be the case. Furthermore, Mr Nicolaï's question is about the code black. I said something about this at first, Van Rijn said something about it and Van Ark said something about it. Choosing based on age alone cannot be the issue. Why is that different from the normal guidelines that apply in the medical world? Because at that time there is not only a medical choice, but also on non-medical grounds, simply because of a lack of availability. Then we also believe that you can attach further conditions to this. One of these conditions is, for example, the explicability of the principle of non-discrimination, namely that you believe that not only on the basis of age, therefore, not only on the basis of survival, but only on the basis of age, can be chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u353	Finally, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u354	Can the Minister promise, should that be discussed, that a decision on non-medical grounds, due to scarcity, will in any case be subject to a limitation to allow an age criterion to be taken into account and that this will be regulated by law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u355	Yeah, that by law it's not possible to decide at a purely age. Actually, that's it. This is what it will look like in the design. Of course, age plays a part. Always. Because survival is a medical assessment. So survival can be formulated as a criterion. But pure age cannot be the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u356	I'm seeing a lot of interruptions now. I actually asked to save the interruptions until the end of the Minister's story. Then we can see what time it is. Then we'll have the Home Secretary. In the meantime, one and a half hours have been reserved for the second term. So you know that's what we're gonna get. I understand, however, that Mr Van Dijk wishes to make a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u357	I'm standing there now. Frankly, I assumed that interruptions had to be saved, but since you did allow Mr Van Rooijen to interrupt, I seem to have been mistaken. I would like to come back to the vaccination obligation. I'll be brief. I had the impression that the Minister's answer was a bit off the top of my question. The government, as Mr De Jonge has also said, may very well opt, in principle, not to impose a vaccination obligation, but if there is no further work for air carriers, childcare or other sectors without vaccination, then I wonder what remains of that freedom not to vaccinate. Does the Minister see that concern?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u358	Yes, I see that concern, especially because we will be facing a rather long stage in which only a limited part of the population is available for vaccination. That will increase and increase, but it's not a choice not to have you vaccinated. A large proportion of the population will not have been vaccinated in the first few months. This is only the case at the very end, if everyone has had the chance but some of the population has not chosen to do so. In the interim, a number of situations may arise, such as the situation where an institution, for example a nursing home that has to protect vulnerable elderly people, says that it is nice if that part of the staff who have not yet been vaccinated does not work in the department with the most vulnerable people. You can imagine. Is that justified? I think so, from the point of view of protecting your clients. But you can also look at that in a different way. If this means that you can no longer participate in a part of the life together, then of course there is something else going on. From a certain degree of vaccination there is in any case group protection, of group immunity. But then you have to have a certain degree of vaccination. It will vary by vaccine to what extent you have achieved it. In general, I can imagine Mr Van Dijk's concern. At that time, we will have to act on what is needed at that time. The concern surrounding this law was also expressed as disinformation about this law that could be a ground for a vaccination obligation. That land is lacking in this law. We will never force it from the cabinet. Mrs De Boer asked to indicate the relationship between Article 58f (4) and Article 58j (1) (b). Mrs De Boer knows exactly what I am talking about: if there is no provision for exceptions, can these contact professions no longer be exercised and are they prohibited? No, that's not the case. Article 58f lays down the safe distance standard, as well as a number of exceptions thereto, in paragraphs 1 and 3. The scheme may provide for further exceptions to the safe distance standard, for example for contact professions, in the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Article 58f. Article 58j provides a basis for other rules on, inter alia, contact professions. We are currently working on the regulation which will be submitted to both chambers in the framework of the required suspension procedure. Mrs De Boer asked if the government can confirm that the law does not provide for measures in homes and that it is not punishable to give your grandmother a hug. Indeed not in homes; we have excluded them. In a home of your grandmother hugging your grandmother isn't, on its own, punishable, but it's stupid to do it. So don't do it! That's the urgent advice, but it's not punitive. Then there is the question of the mouth caps, which are also part of these measures. Mr Van Dijk said that the duty of mouth cover should be based on a valid justification, given the ongoing scientific debate on the usefulness of non-medical mouth caps. I agree with that, of course. Article 58j provides the basis for requiring the use of personal protective equipment outside the homes. These include mouth caps. It is therefore possible, but of course we will have to justify necessity, proportionality and suitability. Furthermore, we will always be advised not to confuse the OMT, which again uses the latest international scientific insights, including through ECDC, with AC/DC. What specific expectations does the Minister have of constantly wearing a mask? 50PLUS and the PVV are asking that. This has already been the subject of a lively debate. The OMT initially advised very reluctantly. In the summer, when the level of infection was very low, the OMT said, based on international understanding, that wearing a non-medical mouth cap had very little added value. But the OMT also said back then, in the summer, that this could be different at the time the contamination rate increases. The first thing you can say about that is that the rate of infection has increased quite a bit. Does it have added value? Yeah, then it has added value. Does it have a lot of added value and is this the solution? No, it's not the answer. You can see in all the countries where they have had a mouth cap duty for a long time, that the second wave there has been just as cheerful as elsewhere. This is also proof that it is not the solution. But can it contribute anything? Yeah, it could contribute. All things added up, it's pretty much something anyway, so let's just do it. That is actually the consideration. Then Van Pareren asks: why should citizens not wear a safe medical mouth cap? Why do they have to use a non-medical mouth cap? Well, medical mouth caps, the word actually says it, are for the care. And non-medical mouth caps are for out-of-care. Isn't it okay? Are we gonna stand next to it with a coupon book? No, not that. But it just doesn't have to, so don't do it. Is the cabinet, as Mrs De Boer asks, prepared to find a solution for the deaf and the hearing impaired? Yes. In any case, there will be an exception for people who, because of a medical cause, cannot wear a mask, who, because of a disability or a chronic illness, are unable to catch up with such a thing. But also people who speak with or assist someone who has to be able to read lips because of an auditory limitation, or who are dependent on non-verbal visual signals because of an intellectual or communicative limitation, should actually be excluded. That is the case now, and they are also excluded from the urgent opinion. Then there are Mr Dittrich's questions about the legal basis for obliging people, for example, to go into quarantine or be treated in a cohort department. It's actually about keeping patients in. If there is a pg patient, how does it work, does it happen on the basis of the Wpg or the Wzd? The basis of the care is: always voluntary, unless. So it's always voluntary. Both the Wpg and the Wzd offer the possibility to deviate from that principle under strict conditions. The Wzd only applies if there is a pg client, i.e. a psychogeriatric client, or a client with intellectual disabilities. The Wzd then offers an opportunity to provide forced care if the client opposes the care. So it's not generic either, but only if a client opposes it. And that resistance must be causally related, so related, to the patient's condition, for example if a client opposes isolated nursing because because of his disability or disability he does not understand what corona is and does not understand why isolation is necessary and really resists it, and so, in the Wzd, it is incompetent. In such a case, the Wzd can be used and there are all steps that have to be completed. If it's not clients with a psychogeriatric disorder or intellectual disability, the Wzd can never be used and the Wpg is actually the only solution. The follow-up question is: if it is a willing nursing home patient, who simply doesn't care about corona and doesn't want to go to the cohort department, what is the choice? Is it Wzd or Wpg or Wggz? In that case, so if you have no basis why the Wggz would apply or the Wzd would apply, the Wpg is actually the only option. By the way, this applies not only to patients in an institution, but it also applies to the fact that on the basis of the Wpg you can force someone to go into isolation. And who can make you do that? The chairman of the security region. That's true now, too. It's a rather cumbersome procedure, a bit similar to an ibs-like procedure, but it can be done. Then you have two more articles, 31 for isolation and 35 for quarantine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u359	Are we almost at the end of your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u360	No, I don't think so. Can a patient be required to undergo a test? This depends on whether there is resistance and whether it is related to the pg-disease or intellectual impairment. If that is the case, then it would indeed be possible to do so if all the conditions set out in the Wzd were met, because good care would only be possible with a form of obligation. Or should a patient be considered infected as a precaution? But then there's a dilemma. That is indeed a rather complicated and insoluble dilemma at the time, because then you would force someone who might be healthy to sit in a cohort department. By the way, of course, you mention these practical situations because you have heard them somewhere, but I have not yet seen them in this form. I have heard all kinds of Wzd questions and applications from the Wpg in institutions, certainly, but not in this way, asking whether you should actually put someone on a cohort department, as a precaution. Then the client confidant. Should it or should it not be allowed on location? Yeah, they need to be admitted to location. Yes, that applies to on-site access and access to the person. By the way, the inspection has to ensure that this is done, so if you have examples of this, then that is actually something that the inspection should be working on. Because according to the Wzd, that right is just there. Then the Animal Law, also called the Animal Health and Welfare Act. Mr Nicolaï says that although there is a ban on breeding, this is not intended for public health. He says you can only hang this on animal welfare. That's not exactly right. The Animal Health and Welfare Act already empowers the Cabinet to take measures for the prevention and control of infectious animal diseases in order to protect animals and public health, such as a breeding ban. So there is already an adequate legal basis. Then Mr Otten wants to know how often the app has been downloaded. That's happened 3.5 million times. Are there any data on the number of people who deleted the app? No. But what about Ireland? That's where it happened, because apparently there was a bug in the app, so the app wasn't usable. That's why some of the people in Ireland I believe half a million people deleted the app and reinstalled it. There are no signs that many people in the Netherlands would have removed the app. In the meantime, the app has been downloaded 3.5 million times. That's a lot. How many people have already reported being infected? By now, these are 14,000 people. So there are a lot of them. Those were the answers in this block. Mr. Chairman. Then I have some other answers, which I will quickly go through. The international lessons...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u361	Given the time, I allow a very brief interruption by Mr Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u362	I don't have much of an interruption. I asked a question. It was passed on to Mr De Jonge by Mr Grapperhaus. It was about whether the law provides for the possibility of regulations for ventilation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u363	That's right. This subject fits in with the block where I have now arrived, because it is covered by others. Ventilation is definitely covered by others. There is sometimes a misunderstanding that we would not consider ventilation to be so important in the Netherlands, whereas it is found in the rest of the world. That is really a misunderstanding, because ventilation is important. That's just the theorem of RIVM. RIVM says: look at the building regulations you have to comply with. If your ventilation doesn't comply with the building regulations, you've got work to do. That's one. The second is that the cabinet has set up an educational support club. This club has looked at the ventilation systems with the field of education. The cabinet has also made a large sum of money available to adapt ventilation systems. Thirdly, RIVM has said that you really need to be careful with the recirculation of air in the same room, for example in nursing homes. You also need to be careful with fans that you can target. Why do you have to be careful with those forms of ventilation? These may be prolonging with respect to the, yes, ballistic curve of the spit. The virus is transmitted through all kinds of different drops, large and small drops. Therefore, 1.5 metres should also be kept away. The assumption that aerosol diffusion would be the biggest driver behind the contamination is difficult to justify. If that were the case, we would not have been able to control the virus with the measures we took in March. Then the R would never have been as low as it is now with these measures. If we had not taken action, it would have been much higher. If aerosol distribution were the way to spread, the hospital patients who were not in oppressive rooms, but just in nursing wards, would really have infected the whole hospital through ventilation. But aerosol distribution is also a small part of the spread. We just don't know exactly how big that share is. For this reason, RIVM says: "Be cautious with ventilation that does not comply with the Building Decision. Beware of air recirculation in the same room. Beware with directional fans, or swivel fans, which you aim in a certain way." We help different sectors to ensure that they check their ventilation system sufficiently. We have also made additional resources available in the field of education. Mr Meijer asks about international lessons. There's a lot to learn internationally. That's what we've done in a very structured way. The letter on the lessons learned which we sent to the Chambers just after the summer goes into a number of lessons, for example from Germany. The whole system where you say that 7 per 100,000 is the limit on which you have to take action, has been slanted from Germany. In Germany and Denmark high volume laboratories were employed. We just didn't have that, but we're working towards it right now. Now this happens to foreign labs, but this will happen to Dutch labs as well. So we're taking lessons from abroad. That road map is more of an Irish model, so we eclectically borrow the good lessons from all kinds of countries. I think that's very worthwhile. The dashboard that we have made is interesting for many other countries to take a good look at. We also do this with other countries. We have analyzed 160 dashboards internationally to see what could be the best elements. So there is plenty of international cooperation. Van Rooijen asks if the cabinet is also thinking about long-term solutions. Yes, we do. I very much hope that vaccination is just part of those long-term solutions. We are, of course, incredibly committed to doing so in the Netherlands, together with Germany, Italy and France, with the four of us actually taking the rest of the European Union on a roll in order to preinvest in vaccine development, so that we get to the front of all the initiatives that are promising as soon as possible. I really hope that's gonna get us something. I really think that's our best asset, because otherwise it's gonna take a lot longer before we can normalize again. I think that's gonna take too much of our stamina. That is the longer-term perspective. In a shorter period of time, you will, of course, see a lot of innovative treatments, which are very promising. The whole development of rapid tests that we are doing at the moment is, of course, also very promising. This also helps to keep society more open and keep the economy more talking. So there are indeed hopeful and promising developments. The real step through which we can turn the page is, I believe, vaccination, our best asset. Then I come to the following comments: "The government indicates that institutions do not conduct contact investigations. The GGDs indicate that they do not have time for contact research in health care institutions. What can healthcare institutions ask and what can they record?" I do not think we have answered that quite correctly or have not put it quite correctly, but there are, of course, a lot of institutions doing source and contact research, just in consultation with the GGD. This applies, for example, to disability care institutions, but there are also nursing homes that say: let us do it, because we know the visit and we know the environment. GGDs like it very much when settings do the same, but they often take a look at: what do you have to look for and what do you have to take into account? Well, that's what's gonna happen. Of course, institutions are allowed to do so in their own right. Institutions, for example, must protect their other residents. Actually, you could say that institutions have a legal task to do that type of research, at least driven from the protection of all residents in their homes. They may also request data in that context. Then I'll come to planable care. Mr Dittrich asks me to reflect on that. More parties have asked about the regular care that is compromised. We have seen in the first wave that all hospitals have dropped everything from their hands after some pushing and pulling. Once one had the seriousness of the situation, then in Brabant, on the retina, everyone started working full swing. That meant that all the other disciplines in such a hospital said: we understand that it is not our turn now, so here you have our people. It went slightly less smoothly than that, but it went very much that way in that first wave. Of course, we have said that if you suspend the HPV screening and postpone all kinds of treatments that may not be acute now, then it will become more acute, and so will the health damage. Then the question is whether you should not make better choices in future. That's what the profession, the FMS, the Federation of Medical Specialists, has been doing very well, I think. Mr Van Ark and the chairman of the LNAZ, the National Network of Acute Care, and the chairman of the Federation of Medical Specialists, have, I believe, brought out last Friday how we intend to deal with this. In fact, it is mainly about ensuring the acute care and also about ensuring that the rational scaling down of regular care is done in a good way. I say "in a good way," because you have to want to keep room in all hospitals, so you have a fair spread of covid patients. Otherwise, the chances of life will increase or decrease as more infected patients live in your region. Of course, that does not seem to be entirely the intention either. It is therefore fair to spread all covid patients throughout the Netherlands. It is therefore also a good thing that the LCPS, the National Coordination Centre for Patients Spread, has a perseverance force to say: now this hospital is up for this patient. That is an important point. It is a good thing that the FMS has created a manual on how to scale down regular care, each time you think about what acute care is, but also what acute care becomes if you are not there in time. The six-week limit has been named. I think that all of that helps or contributes to doing it in a responsible way. In addition, there is of course the agreement with the health insurance companies that this cannot mean, for example, that you see a whole discipline go into the red financially, because of the fact that there is now room for covid patients.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u364	How far along are we now, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u365	It is incredibly important to deal with it in a good way. Now, let's test it and test it quickly. Mrs Prins quoted an article by Jaap Goudsmit on this subject. I think he's very good at expressing how promising quick tests are. At the same time, of course, it must be safe. So you have to look again and again at the situations in which rapid tests actually provide an answer to the question that exists. If there were no more scarcity and you would have endless rapid tests available, you would prefer to test everyone, including those who are asymptomatic, all day long. But asymptomatic tests with quick tests at the moment are simply insanely unreliable. You're really gonna have to wait a better generation of quick tests before you can actually do that. But I think it's coming. I'm sure it's coming, but the question is how soon that will be. What we do now is to validate the reliability of these quick tests each time in a good setting, so that you also know for sure what conclusion you can attach to a negative result of such a test. A positive result is, of course, the same story. We are expanding that in a great way and I will go into that in the progress letter I will send tomorrow. Mr Van Pareren asked a question about Schiphol. Anyone could enter the country without the test street, but many measures have been taken in the hospitality industry. Can I explain that difference? I have just discussed the argument for the catering industry. Furthermore, measures have of course been taken at Schiphol Airport. This way you can't fly with complaints and people have to sign a health statement. If you're from an orange area, you should be quarantined. You may also only travel to an orange area for necessary travel. We did a test on a test street at Schiphol for asymptomatic testing. I would also like to start again, but as I said earlier, the antigen tests are not sufficiently reliable at the moment. Moreover, there are not enough available to do so, but it is likely to change in the short term. Furthermore, it is possible that another quick test in such a setting can be done. The people with complaints always go first, but once we really have enough, even for people without complaints, we will just start using the test street at Schiphol Airport again. Mr President, you do not believe it, but I am really at the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u366	I believe it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u367	And now, Mr Ollongren!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u368	And then I will give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u369	Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u370	I would also ask the Minister for the Interior whether she can see to what extent it is possible to compress the response without compromising quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u371	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I am going to do my best and I should be able to do so, because my colleague has already answered a great deal. I'd like to use a few minutes for an introduction, but I'll do that as soon as possible. Then I have fundamental rights, a few additional specific questions about the role of the First Chamber, local customization, desinfo and finally a few other questions. But I really mainly deal with the questions that have been asked. I begin by thanking you. My two colleagues have done so, but I think it is appropriate to do so, because your Chamber has, of course, acted extremely diligently in the handling of this bill. It is therefore, in the eyes of the cabinet, a legislative proposal that is important for the Netherlands, because it lays a foundation under the crisis approach. This crisis has been and will continue for a long time. It is a far-reaching law and we are aware of it. It is therefore a good thing that I was able to hear in the first term of the Chamber that there is a great deal of attention to the protection of fundamental rights. I think you are also doing this right to society. I think that what is now before us has become a better law and also has a broader basis for support. That is very important, especially if you create a legal basis to ultimately limit fundamental rights. Furthermore, of course, we are doing so for a reason, namely the protection of health. That is also a fundamental right of people and also a very important fundamental right. This bill provides a solid basis for the protection of these fundamental rights, by allowing for the restriction of fundamental rights only if absolutely necessary. The legislative proposal provides for balancing frameworks and safeguards. This means that the ministerial regulations cannot impose more restrictions than the law allows. That was also established by the Council of State. Fundamental rights restrictions require adequate democratic control. We are actually having a debate today on the range within which you can then take the measures. I have also seen this explicitly in the advice of the Council of State. The legislative proposal complies with the legality principle and the primacy of the legislator. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to express my deep appreciation for our public administration in this House. The impact of the coronavirus has far-reaching consequences for the functioning of everyday life in all municipalities in the Netherlands, not only for residents and entrepreneurs, but also for local government. The diverse and very complex issues that this crisis raises require a great deal of our mayors, aldermen, council members and employees in municipal organisations. They have shown themselves to be resilient and effective from the beginning. With this bill, if possible, we go back as far as possible to normal administrative relations: from directions and emergency regulations to a law, ministerial regulations and powers at local level. The starting point is: national where it has to be and local customization where it can be done. While we are dealing with this law here, the current figures on the virus are unfortunately such that a more uniform and central approach is obvious. But there will come a time when we can scale down and a more regional or local approach will be discussed. At that time, the mayor can grant targeted exemptions through this law, if that is justified. It should always be based on advice from the GGD. Then it becomes possible for the mayor himself to take measures or deactivate them, depending on the local circumstances. This also applies to a sudden increase in the number of infections in a situation where we are very low across the board. So that's what this law is trying to do. In such a situation, more room is created for local considerations and more local control. Of course, think of it as well. That is very important to be accountable to the city council. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the various questions in the various areas I have just mentioned. I will start with fundamental rights, with a question from Mrs Prins-Moderan of the CDA: is the virus so threatening that fundamental rights should be restricted? I think the answer has already been given by my colleague. It should be based on what the virus does in the sphere of health risks, hospitalizations, mortality rates and so on. We're learning more and more. We're talking about the R-digit now, and everyone knows what that is. It's about the rate of spread of the virus. The virus is a major threat to the health of the Netherlands. Besides, that applies not only to the Netherlands, but to the whole world. The government has a duty to act against this and to protect public health. That is an important fundamental right, which I also said in my introduction. It is therefore inevitable that these measures may temporarily restrict other fundamental rights under this law. I think Mr Van Rooijen listed some of those freedoms. He mentioned the right to assembly, the right to freedom of religion, which Mr Grapperhaus has just accepted, and the right to privacy. All kinds of conditions must always be met. It's a balance; you weigh one fundamental right down against the other fundamental right. But it doesn't happen unbiased and not just like that. That's what happens with this law. This has also been explained in detail in that law. Mr Nicolaï asked a number of questions about fundamental rights. I think he started De Jonge's answer by saying that it is not only about public health, but also about loneliness, the possibility of inequality, the backwardness of education and all that kind of general interest. That is, of course, the case. Hugo de Jonge just agreed to that. That is also one of the reasons why, as a cabinet, we are advised as widely as possible to consider such things, so that you have taken sufficient account of them in the decision-making process. As a result, I actually wanted to go there, and Mr Nicolaï had two questions about Rule 58b. He asked whether the powers mentioned therein would only be applied if it was necessary and said that it would not be enough if the Minister considered it appropriate. In addition, he asked whether that article only concerned restrictions on individual fundamental rights and whether that was not too limited. The first question was also addressed in the note on the report. The necessity test used here is consistent with the case law developed on the ECHR and other human rights conventions. However, neither European nor international human rights treaties nor the Constitution require that a measure restricting freedom can be taken only if, according to generally accepted scientific standards, it is sufficiently established that the measure is effective. The point is that the measure must be effective. Reasonable and sufficient grounds must be put forward for this. At the time of the assessment, the government will have its own discretion, a so-called margin of appreciation. Mr Nicolaï's second question is whether Article 58b (c) relates exclusively to the limitation of individual fundamental rights. In strictly legal terms, Mr Nicolaï is right. A broader basis is not legally necessary, and that is why it is formulated in this way. In the case of restrictions on fundamental rights, constitutional and treaty law is required to follow those criteria. That is why it has been made particularly clear in that provision. However, any public decision, measure or application of powers must respect proportionality and subsidiarity. Other aspects will have to be taken into account in any political and administrative considerations. Mr. Chairman. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u372	This was the end of the block of fundamental rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u373	Yes, these were fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u374	This is the end of the block of fundamental rights, so you can go ahead, Mr. Nicolaï. Without my having done so, the proposal was made to do the interruptions at the end of the block. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u375	Thanks for the answer. In any case, this is clear with regard to individual fundamental rights. I would have read it right anyway. But I'm still stuck with what's necessary. There is, of course, a margin of appreciation that I understand, but I heard your colleague next to you about the mouth caps saying 'yes, all the little bits help a little', 'it's not quite clear' and so on. But how can you say of measures that intervene deeply, which only help a little and which you are not quite sure of yet, that they are necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u376	My colleague spoke about this. This is one of the measures we are taking now, in the form of an urgent opinion. I have said before that in the Netherlands in the OMT, where we always ask for advice, there is no scientific consensus that mouth caps in public indoor areas prevent infections, but also the OMT has said that there are studies that indicate that they can contribute to preventing infections. So OMT's advice was: mouth caps can be considered if the 1.5 meter is not feasible and if no check questions can be asked. We in the Cabinet have never said, by giving an urgent opinion, that it is the solution to combat the spread of the virus, but we have said that it can contribute and that it is an important additional means. At the stage in which we have ended up, we feel that we should not abandon such an additional means that we see very frequent use in countries around us. We want to use everything we can reasonably do to prevent the spread of the virus. We therefore consider that to be sensible, effective and proportionate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u377	Mr. Nicolaï, please be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u378	Do I hear the Minister say that when it comes to additional measures, something which could contribute to something, is conditional on something being necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u379	Whether it is effective and whether there are reasonable and sufficient grounds for it is a question we should ask ourselves. Of course, we've done the same. The answer to the urgent opinion on masks has been that we are positive about this. The recital is that we have indeed come up with this urgent opinion. I just outlined what happened next.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u380	Please continue your speech. Or, no, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u381	I would like to ask you a few more questions about this. I hear the Minister say that it has been given urgent advice on the basis of studies which show that it may contribute to this. If we go into the next stage and we go into a duty of silence, which makes this law legally possible, then you will still have a further violation of fundamental rights, because it will become an obligation that will also be punishable. But the effectiveness can't be made very hard. In fact, the Minister himself says that it makes a very limited contribution and that we notice that the number of infections occurring abroad is also increasing, while mouth caps are being worn there. How can the criterion of effectiveness be applied if it affects fundamental rights in this way, with an obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u382	First of all, it is important that this law offers the possibility, the basis, of requiring masks through a ministerial arrangement. That is not the case at the moment, but this law would provide the basis for that. It is indeed the intention to do so. I have just argued why we have come to this urgent opinion. That's the same argument you'd give when you were about to make that commitment. I also outlined that in other countries it is general policy to do so. Given the severity of the epidemic, we'll consider it. If contributions are possible, you should in principle weigh them and deploy them. Mr De Jonge has already argued how things were political at the time. In a debate it was clear that it was a wish of the House of Representatives to do so. But again, the OMT advice, the lessons you can learn from abroad and also the fact that we had already gained that experience in the OMT are all supporting such an advice that could indeed be converted into a mouth cap obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u383	Mr. Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u384	Very sharp: but that doesn't mean anything about the consideration of the degree of effectiveness! That is what I just wanted, because that is an important factor in reducing these fundamental rights. So what is actually being done with the degree of effectiveness? Because it hasn't been taken into consideration anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u385	No, but it is about whether a measure contributes to combating the spread of the virus. A limited contribution can also be a contribution that, in conjunction with a number of other measures, ultimately adds up to an effect of a measure that you decide to take. So yes, a contribution or limited contribution: it is all possible. You're gonna have to weigh it up. You need to make it clear and support it. But it's all possible. Mr. Chairman. Then I will continue with a number of questions about the role of the First Chamber. Much has already been exchanged, so this is only additional.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u386	I do propose that we do not repeat the discussion we have already had.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u387	No, definitely not. No, definitely not. That wouldn't be necessary at all. Mr Recourt had asked a very specific question about something that I think is still good to explain here. What is the role of the First Chamber in this? We have seen, also in the opinion of the Council of State, that the right of assent of the Lower House does not mean that the Upper Chamber no longer has any role to play. That's not true. As co-legislator, the First Chamber is given the final say on the framework for the measures to be taken provided for in this legislative proposal. That's what I said in my introduction. A ministerial arrangement can only regulate the way in which the legally maximum permitted space is used. This means that the Parliament agrees to the adoption of this bill with that maximum legal space, at least if this Chamber were to accept the bill. That is a very important role that the First Chamber is entitled to. As a result, the rules cannot impose more restrictions than the law allows. The decision to extend the law is also held before both chambers for a week, including the Upper Chamber. That's what I wanted to explain. Mr Janssen had asked a very specific question about information. I believe that Mrs De Boer also said this in connection with the information provided by the Council of State. This was about the nature of the assent procedure introduced by the Lower House by amendment in Article 58c (2). Mr Janssen has clearly seen that the way in which it is expressed in the presentation of the Council of State in some places of information is not in line with the legal text. It is good in a number of places, but not in a number of places, so I would like to confirm that here. That is also important, I think, for the explanation of the law. Silence of the House of Representatives for a week after submission of the ministerial rules has the effect that the rules may enter into force. That's what the law says. By the way, that it is different in that one place, which Mr Janssen had seen well, does not matter. At least, it doesn't alter the conclusions that the Council of State draws. Then Mr Janssen also asked whether the new veto rights were not at odds with the constitutional debate regarding the intention of Article 89, paragraph 4 of the Constitution. The fact that the Second Chamber may decide under Article 58c not to agree to an established ministerial arrangement is not at odds with Article 89 (4) of the Constitution, since that provision requires that the ministerial rules have a legal basis and cannot enter into force until they have been published. This is fulfilled. The bill provides a basis for the establishment of a ministerial arrangement and does not prejudice the guarantee that the ministerial arrangements will not enter into force until they have been published. So that is how I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u388	Wait till the cube is finished, Mr. Janssen? That's what we agreed. But I think that's almost the case. Minister, will you finish the block?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u389	Almost; I'll finish it then, Mr. Chairman. I believe that Mr Janssen was also referring to an article in NRC Handelsblad, a document submitted by Mr Tom Cammelbeeck. That actually states that you should see this as a kind of exceptional state of affairs within the meaning of the Constitution, and therefore both chambers should be involved in the extension of the measures. I thought that Mr Janssen himself indicated that it was not possible to provide for the parliamentary involvement of the United Assembly by formal law or by a Rules of Procedure, of course, because the Constitution deals with this exhaustively. This is just listed exactly. The other argument is that the Cabinet has ruled that the fight against the virus requires tailor-made work, and that for that reason a change in the regular legislation, which provides for this type of measures, in the Public Health Act, and not in the State Emergency Law, has been chosen. In our opinion, this would not be enough to make customisation possible. Then Mr Dittrich asked... Sorry, Mr President, I think that the honourable Member has already given ample consideration to this. Of course, you were curious about what I would say, but I will not do that for a moment. The President has specifically asked me not to reopen this discussion. But I would like to say this to Mr Dittrich, because he asked about that threshold of 50 in the House of Representatives. If I understood Mr Dittrich correctly, he suggested that this threshold of 50 would mean that smaller parties would not be able to express their views on non-acceptance of proposed measures in a debate. But that, I think, is not what the House of Representatives intended. It follows from Rule 58c, fourth paragraph, that 50 Members of Parliament are sufficient to allow the House of Representatives to vote on an assent decision. That is what the House of Representatives itself has included in the legislative proposal, with the Buitenweg and others amendment. This is essentially about the method used by the Lower House itself in an assent decision. In addition to these legal provisions, it is up to the Lower House itself or, if so, when the Chamber wishes to discuss the measures with the Cabinet. They can do that in all kinds of ways, so they have to decide for themselves. In theory, you could also have a 30-member debate or something like that, and then there is another threshold. So it is up to the House of Representatives itself to give effect to the assent procedure as laid down in the legislative proposal, but this article as such does not, in my opinion, hinder smaller parties in a debate. Finally, under this block, the 50-member threshold does not cover the government's obligation to provide information. That was also a question from Mr Dittrich. It is therefore not a restriction on the normal obligation to provide information in Article 68. As I said earlier, it is about putting a decision to the vote not to agree to a ministerial arrangement. And yes, the obligation to provide information or to ask for information can always be done; it can be done by small groups, that can be done by individual Members. This also applies to members of your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u390	Mr. Janssen. Fair is fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u391	Yes, Chairman, patience will be rewarded. On the first point, I will come back in my second term. That'll make it a little easier. The second point, on Article 103 of the Constitution, is that the Minister went past my question. My question did not go so far as to say that we would be in a state of emergency at the moment and the united assembly; quite the same. Since this is about limiting the same kind of fundamental rights, I have just said that we do not have the right to a state of emergency at the moment, but we do have the de facto right to do so. Would it not be reasonable, by analogy with Article 103 of the Constitution, for the States-General to decide on an extension? That was at the heart of my speech, and not that we should call a united meeting, because I know that this cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u392	Okay, but I also found that Mr Janssen had already put that forward himself, so the united assembly cannot convene. The involvement of the First Chamber is as we have both argued. There is therefore no change in the instruments available to the First Chamber, including in other forms of legislation. As far as I am concerned, nothing stands in the way of the First Chamber on that point. The only thing I disagree with Mr Janssen on is that he says: it is de facto a kind of state of emergency. I have just explained why the cabinet has not opted for state emergency law. That is why we do not believe it to be a state of emergency as Mr Janssen points out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u393	Let me give you a little more details in the second term. It's not a formal emergency. I didn't argue that either. I am thinking of the fact that, looking at the nature of the measures, we actually come to the same conclusion. Then I come back to the rhetorical duck test, which could also apply here. That is why I say that, following Article 103 of the Constitution, it would not be reasonable... I'm not trying to tell you all the time that you're trying to take something from us. It's not a question of taking away. It's a matter of unequal division between the First and Second Chambers, and remembering something. It is precisely my concern that we should be able to judge measures that restrict fundamental rights here as States-General, every three months in the House of Representatives, but also in this Chamber, as it is also referred to in Article 103 Constitution. That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u394	Yes, but that is, in a sense, a question that the Chamber should ask itself. Again, the government's reasoning is: we have opted for this specific legislation because of specific circumstances. There is a crisis, an unprecedented crisis. We have chosen this law because we believe that you should no longer want to act on the basis of an emergency regulation. Emergency regulations are actually not suitable for a long-term crisis. But we didn't choose state emergency law. Emergency legislation has not been chosen either. This law has been chosen. So Mr Janssen points it out differently than I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u395	Finally, Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u396	I shall table a motion on this point in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u397	I would like to go through this point. At the time of the three-month extension, a slight veil was chosen. The ordinary powers of the First and Second Chambers come to that light veil. We can debate and table motions, but we do not have the right to consent. Do I understand the Minister correctly that, at the moment when we are not seeing the extension here in a debate in the First Chamber, we are putting it down in a motion and getting a majority, the bottomline is that there is no extension?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u398	You can't say that way. I think the cabinet has just explained in detail which way we are going together. First of all, we do so when this law is drawn up, in which the First Chamber fully applies its powers and on which it, I believe tomorrow, will vote. That determines the frameworks. Within these frameworks, you still have the ministerial arrangements. You have just discussed this in detail with my colleague. This is about the extension. That extension didn't fall out of the sky. Your Chamber, like the House of Representatives, will be kept informed of the measures in force on a monthly basis. So, of course, we are trying to express the information position of the Chambers fully and as well as possible through this information. Also between the periodic reports there is plenty of room for the Chambers to hold debates or ask questions. Finally, the legislative proposal allows the First Chamber to exercise control over the extension of the law by means of the pending procedure. I have just said the same thing to Mr Janssen. So I also see the First Chamber playing that role in full. It is, of course, very special that we opt for a duration of three months. If you look a little through your eye hair now, you may expect that the law will have to be extended at least once. I think that's how we're meeting now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u399	So far there is total agreement with the Minister, but it is ultimately a question of who has the power in democracy. It should be the Chambers, one or the other, but not the government. That is why I do not understand the Minister's caution in stating that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u400	I think it would be better if we did not make too clear a statement here about a situation of like-dance when the two Chambers would come to a different judgment. In such a situation, depending on all kinds of circumstances that we would not be able to assess at this time, you must, fortunately, not look at how you should act at all. I cannot say in advance: that means one or the other either way. That depends very much on the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u401	Thank you. Then we'll go to the block about local customization. Mr Otten would like to ask a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u402	We're talking about the role of the First Chamber. I would like to return to that point because, as you have heard, it is of great concern to me. I do not think the Minister's explanation is very satisfactory. Within the system as we operate, with two Chambers, Mr Recourt and Mr Janssen have already mentioned this, especially in the case of such a far-reaching law, it is a very exceptional course of action to call the First Chamber into question. If I may say so from the chairman, because I have to be very careful of what I say. I won't use the s-word this time. I shall come back to that in my second term, by the way. How do you justify that? For I do not hear a convincing story, not even on Mr Recourt's questions just now, why the First Chamber does not have a say in that regulation. The regulation will ultimately determine the consequences for people. I would like a clear explanation from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u403	Now we repeat the discussion we have had before. Now it was just about the extension of the law. We've talked about the ministerial arrangement before. The agreement is that we will not repeat the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u404	I asked the Minister. I asked about the extension and the regulation. It's two flip sides of the coin, both of which relate to our right in the Supreme Court to agree. In a two-chamber system, one Chamber cannot simply, with or without the help of the Council of State, terminate another Chamber. However, I would like to hear from the Minister how she thinks this fits in with the Dutch constitutional system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u405	You didn't mention the extension. Hence my intervention. But that is what the demand is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u406	The question, however, is about the extension. Okay, I did understand Mr Otten differently. I didn't start sketching what this law actually is for nothing. This law is extremely important, because it determines what the cabinet can and cannot do through a ministerial arrangement. That's what he's trying to do. And that is where the whole parliament plays a normal role. The cabinet had then proposed that this should be done for the ministerial arrangement in the case of veils. At the time of the extension, we had another proposal. On a number of points, the House of Representatives has decided to amend this, giving the House of Representatives a right of assent with regard to the ministerial arrangements. That goes a little further than what the cabinet has proposed. Your Chamber then requested an opinion from the Council of State, requesting information from the Council of State. The Council of State concludes that there is nothing, not even in the Constitution, that opposes it. However, I would like to oppose the idea that the First Chamber is lagging behind in any way. Because what the cabinet had initially intended to do with the ministerial arrangements and with the extension has remained fully intact. It's the role of the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u407	Thank you. Mr. Otten, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u408	Reference is always made to the Council of State, but the prerogatives lie with the Supreme Court. The Council of State Opinion is merely an opinion. It is also an opinion in which much more was advised than Mr Kox of the SP asked. I warned him not to start, but well, he wanted to go through with it. This means that we are now staying as the First Chamber in the monkey and this is used to limit our democratic influence. I do object to that, though. I do not find the Minister's explanation satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u409	You can come back to that in the second term. Minister, we're going to local customization, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u410	That was my intention, Mr. Chairman. The local customization. A number of questions on this subject from Mr Van Dijk and Mr Meijer, among others. I said in my introduction that space for customization is an important starting point in this bill, but always within the space that allows the fight against the virus. With the current figures you have to opt for a uniform national approach. There's no other way. If you can scale down, there can be more regional and local. That too, as Mr De Jonge has pointed out, will have to be reflected in a ministerial arrangement. Basically, local customization has been incorporated into the law, i.e. by the differentiation that can be made between municipalities and regions and also the municipalities in the Caribbean Netherlands. We also see this in other countries. That makes sense, of course, because we know that there can be great differences, even within a country. In the Netherlands, too, we have seen this in previous stages of this crisis. Given the need for proportionality, tailor-made work is needed. You can scale up and down by region on the basis of the principles of the roadmap, as Minister De Jonge has just explained. It is also possible to provide in the ministerial regulation that the mayor is empowered to designate local places where the measures in question apply. So he can put rules in and out of operation. A well-known example from other situations is, of course, the ban on alcohol, the ban on groups and that sort of thing. In addition, under Article 58e, the mayor is empowered to grant exemptions in special cases. He must ask the GGD for advice, for example on the maximum number of groups at events, memorials, royal awards, anniversaries and so on. You can think about that. Apart from this, municipal councils may lay down rules with an autonomous municipal regulation, as long as they are not contrary to the rules laid down by or pursuant to this bill. That's especially in the field of physical public space, like the layout of roads. For example, if you choose pedestrians instead of cars, how to set up walking routes. There are different themes where local space is created. Moreover, it is true that a national ban, such as the use of alcoholic beverages, will not make it easier for the city council to do so. Tougher could be, if there was a local reason for that. Mr Van Hattem of the PVV asked about the provision of information to municipal councils. His question was whether municipal councils had sufficient information to enable them to exercise their control function. The mayor is, of course, accountable to the city council. He shall be bound to provide the Board with all the information necessary for the Board to carry out its audit. The Council may then request further oral or written information. This is already the case under the Municipal Law, and that has been specified in Article 58s in this law. It is precisely by investing the powers at local level in these mayors that the city council is placed in a position and the debate can be held locally. I think that's a big advance on this bill. I thought Mr Van Hattem also asked what the city council could do if the mayor refused to give information. It's really the mayor's legal duty to provide that information. It's actually kind of like the cabinet that's accountable to your Chamber and to the House of Representatives. For example, the mayor has a legal duty to do so for the city council. The mayor can therefore be questioned orally and in writing. If this does not go systematically well, it will, of course, become a politically-administrative problem and a political fact at local level. This is, by the way, a situation that does not occur at all. I have just expressed my confidence in the mayors, who are doing their job very carefully, both in terms of the use of powers and in terms of their local accountability. The mayor is therefore limited in his duties by the basis set out in this document. Fundamental rights restrictions Mr Van Hattem talked about in his term of office should be carefully weighed. They will also be carefully weighed with ministerial arrangements. So if there is a power that leads to fundamental rights restrictions, then that is under the law and a ministerial arrangement taken on that basis. It can never be more than that. Mr Van Hattem asked how municipal councils should then be able to assess this on the basis of objective criteria, and whether it is true that fundamental rights have been restricted in line with the law and the ministerial regulations. That's actually the same thing. The city council may ask questions, and the mayor is obliged to provide information, which is actually the normal controlling role and the normal duty of intelligence. This also applies to the use of the mayor in the fight against the epidemic. The mayor will therefore have to disseminate information on the nature of the activity concerned, the number of persons for whom he wishes to grant an exemption and the possible impact of that exemption on compliance with the basic rules, such as safe distance. That's the intelligence the mayor needs to provide. These are, I think, the criteria that Mr Van Hattem asked for, which the city council could use to exercise that controlling power. Mr Recourt asked if we would help the municipalities prepare for the new law. When the law comes, it will be different from what it is now, because it is now mainly through the security regions. We are in the process of preparing for the entry into force of the bill. We do so in the ministries working on it, but of course we do so with the fellow governments. We have recently set up a joint support structure for VNG and BZK. The aim is to support municipalities as early as possible in the implementation of the law and the implementation of the new rules. Through this structure, we try to provide the best possible information on the functioning of the law, focusing entirely on local powers and municipal practice. In this we also pay explicit attention to the provision of information and information to the municipal councils. For example, we are setting up a helpdesk for municipalities, a website with information and answers to frequently asked questions, webinars focused on the practical implementation of the law and handouts, a well-known tool in cooperation with municipalities. So we are really working hard to ensure that the municipalities, mayors and municipal councils are able to cope with the law and with the ministerial regulations. So we're gonna hang out with them. Then I would like to move on to the issue of disinformation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u411	This is the end of the block of local customization?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u412	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u413	Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u414	Thanks for the answer. I hear the Minister say that the information the Council would ask for should be provided in principle. But I can imagine that situations will arise, especially at smaller municipal councils, where only information can be obtained that is shared, for example, at the level of the security region and perhaps even at the level of the Security Council, which includes the mayors. Can city councils get that kind of information? Or are they going to be told very quickly: yes, but that was discussed in the safety council or in the circle of the security region, and you are not really talking about that? With that, the municipal councils will be faced with a fulfilled fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u415	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u416	It depends a little bit. When it comes to a power vested in the mayor by law, the city council is simply in full position and must give the mayor that information. The president of the security region can also be seen and can also be asked to be held accountable, including by specific municipal councils under that security region. The President of the security region also has the usual obligation to state reasons and to inform. So it depends a little on who needs to be asked. However, I find it difficult to imagine that, if something were to play at the upper level, but what does affect a city council, the city council would not have information either through its own mayor or through the chairman of the security region. That information must always be provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u417	I also see Mr Nicolaï, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u418	I will be very brief, Mr President. Quite specifically, can the Minister state whether, for example, when it comes to the Security Council and when we ask a regional mayor, that information can in principle also be provided to the councils? Or is that also restricted in public? I had a very short other question; actually that was my initial question. The Minister mentioned directions for action that could be taken. The Road Traffic Act has no mandatory directions for pedestrians. Should obligations also be considered, or can this be excluded?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u419	The latter is a very specific question. I will come back to that in a moment. What changes the law compared to the current situation is that much more often the mayors of all those municipalities that our country is rich will be the competent authority for the implementation of this law and the ministerial regulations. That is a real change from now on, where it is always the chairman of the security region. I do not think that the situation Mr Van Hattem is pointing out will be very frequent. By the way, I can't completely rule it out either. The Security Regions Act falls under the heading of Mr Grapperhaus. I can talk to him in the break between this and the next term. Maybe he'll come back to that later. Mr. Chairman. Then the disinformation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u420	How about we just make that one block of other stuff?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u421	Yeah, I'm fine. The disinformation has been mentioned by many members as a problem. Many Members have said that combating disinformation is important and that it should actually be stepped up. Among other things, Mr Verkerk of the Christian Union asked for that. He also asked me to make an effort to come up with more solutions and to think about how to facilitate that further. I do believe that this crisis has shown how important it is to counter disinformation. This is a new virus. In the beginning, we knew very little about it. Science is fast and we learn a lot about it very quickly, but good and factual information to people is of course crucial. We have to note that this rapid development in scientific knowledge about the virus combined with the uncertainty in humans is logical, because it is something unknown, something threatening, has provided a breeding ground for the spread of disinformation. That's a big risk. The original unit we saw as the first reaction when the crisis occurred and the pandemic also broke out in the Netherlands, has changed as it lasts longer. That is also very understandable. The fact that there is a lot of disinformation is a threat to social stability. It can undermine the support for the measures we need to take in the context of corona. In that sense, you can also say that it is a danger to public health if people are misinformed about what they should or should not do or if people, as a result of misleading messages, no longer want to follow certain measures. So there is a role for the government to actively contradict disinformation where necessary, and so does the government. In doing so, we use scientific expertise and the expertise of the think tank disinformation at the Vaccination Alliance, which advises the Secretary of State of VWS on disinformation about vaccines. But that expertise can also be used more widely. We communicate very actively about our own policies. RIVM and the National Core Team Crisis Communication do that. They have an active information strategy with the publication of factual information through many different channels; target audience communication. Once again, I would like to stress the importance of scientific knowledge in the disinformation debate. I would also like to say to Mr Verkerk that we are involved in responding to disinformation, but also in communicating about our own policies that involve relevant and increasingly developing scientific knowledge. I believe that science has an important role to play in the public debate, but also in countering that disinformation. I just said we know more and more about the virus. We also know more and more about disinformation. But also about the real impact of disinformation on people and what measures work best to counter that disinformation, we are, of course, still searching and learning. It is of course important that scientists have as much access as possible to the data of social media companies. I have also spent some time talking to social media companies about this, to promote it and to make those algorithms that social media companies use clear and transparent, as far as I am concerned, primarily for scientists. That is an extremely important step. Transparency of data and transparency of social media companies and algorithms are therefore issues that I always promote in the conversations I have with them. I also transferred this position as a Dutch position in the conversation with Commissioner Jourová. Because the European Commission is also fully engaged, and at the end of the year new plans will come from there as well. I do believe that, given the scale of these companies, it is very important that we can also take steps at European level. That was the undertaking I wanted to make to Mr Verkerk that I will continue to do so in full. Mrs. Prins-Mudderaar asked for that, too. She also asked: what is the strategy that the cabinet follows to disprove and counter that fake news? The answer is a little along the lines of what I just said. Taking back before this pandemic, I say that as a cabinet we already had a strategy for disinformation back then. There were three lines of action: prevention, which is of course very important, strengthening the information position and responding, if necessary and where possible. But the tension is always between freedom of expression on the one hand, and countering disinformation otherwise. That actually means that we regard disinformation, fact-checking and that sort of thing as primarily a task of journalism and science. But it is precisely with this pandemic that public health is at stake that we see that you, as a government, have to take an active part in it. If there is really misleading coverage about the virus, about the fight against the virus or about the measures, then we step in and fight it actively. That is what is happening in addition to active communication, as I have just said, about the virus itself and about government policy and science, RIVM et cetera. My ministry is now very active on social media, to provide information on how to recognize disinformation at all, so that citizens themselves can appreciate that information as much as possible and distinguish real information from disinformation. I have just said something about these algorithms, but Mr Recourt did indeed ask about European developments. Perhaps, in addition to what I have just said, I can say something about transparency. I also sent a letter, I believe, to the Chamber about this one or two weeks ago. That letter is specifically about combating digital interference in elections. Of course, this is also part of the conversations I have with social media companies, but it often comes down to the same thing: that explanation of the algorithms, the promotion of transparency, the European approach as already stated in the European Code of Conduct against Disinformation, are trying to translate into a form of co-regulation. These are subjects that I have discussed before in discussions with the House of Representatives and which are very relevant in the disinformation we are now seeing on the topic of COOVID-19. Mr President, a few final questions. I shall begin with a question from Mr Van Hattem on the WOB. Mr Van Hattem asked for confirmation of the fact that we agree that the Chamber should simply be informed. Of course. We have an active obligation to provide information, subject to Article 68 of the Constitution. Rooms must be provided with the necessary information at all times, as this is crucial for the exercise of their controlling role. In response to the opinion of the Council of State, there he is again on ministerial responsibility, we have announced also targeted requests from one or more Members of Parliament for specific documents to be honored as much as possible. The provision shall be made to the same extent as if the requested documents had been provided through the WOB. It is therefore a question of openness and transparency, and this does not fit in with any reservations. Finally, the last question I would like to answer. Mr Van Pareren asked about the elections. The elections are of course important. I sent a letter to the House of Representatives in May or June about this quite quickly, because you could see that elections in corona times should be organised differently than we normally do. You saw this happen in other countries, too. The elections must be safe for the voters and for the volunteers in the polling stations. In the letter I sent to the Chambers on this matter, you can see that we are now taking action in the polling stations. These measures have been advised by the RIVM and concern, for example, the keeping of a safe distance, the disinfection of hands, pencils, cough screens for the voters and so on. Those measures are contained in the proposal for a Temporary Election Act. It's out front. I hope we can treat it very quickly. Why do I want to do this fast? We have not only elections on 17 March, but also on 18 November. Then there are reclassification elections in Groningen and Brabant. I therefore seek that this law will enter into force at the beginning of November, so that it will be in force at the time when the reclassification elections are held and also the organising municipalities with certainty. At the beginning of November I will come up with additional information, also in connection with the debate in the House of Representatives. There, motions were adopted on a form of letter voting for particularly vulnerable voters and on a form of early voting. The request is to consider whether these forms are possible. So I'm working on that. Everything you do with elections in the Netherlands is regulated by law. If we do this kind of thing, this will also lead to a bill and a change of law. Or it leads to a temporary law, because I'm assuming it's only necessary in this period. Furthermore, I have set up a support team to help municipalities find sufficient voting locations, because we can imagine that some voting locations are not suitable or cannot be made suitable for these elections, because of the 1.5 meter distance. That's kind of tricky for municipalities. I have provided them with additional resources for this. Soon we will launch a national campaign to recruit voters, because we can imagine that some people are not available, for example because of concerns about their own health. But we need more and not less. So that campaign's coming up. As you can see, we are fully engaged in ensuring that the forthcoming elections can be conducted safely. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u422	Thank you, Minister. This brings us to the end of the first term. I'm proposing a ten-minute suspension, so until 9:50 p.m. Can the House agree to that? Is this long enough? Then we start at 21.50 hours on the second term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u423	We have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u424	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Emergency breaks the law and law breaks no need. At least that's what we learned today. In the Lower House the four coalition parties and the four opposition parties GroenLinks, PvdA, 50PLUS and SGP voted for this law. In the First Chamber, this law also raises a number of questions for the voters, particularly the latter. There's still a lot of open questions. So we've been working on that all day. It is also a special experience to see that the First Chamber on the one hand does not have to play the role that it could play in this crisis and that there are still many questions about this law. The government envisages draconian measures, which can actually be expected, to combat the crisis well in their view. It has already been mentioned that the mouth caps will become mandatory. That immediately raises a question. So far, there has been no real justification for the scientific evidence. And who's gonna provide that evidence? So far, all we hear is that RIVM says it's not necessary. These are the scientists who have so far been known to us as Chambers. However, it must be, because it does not help, then it is not bad to have. Our question is right away: why doesn't the same apply to ventilation? There it has clearly been proved that this has a major impact on the spread of the virus and we are dealing with prevention. Why isn't it just one time that bridge is crossed by saying that it really plays an important role? However, we will soon hear that there will be no scientific evidence for this either. That's not the point, because there isn't one in the mouth caps. What's with the hesitation? It is also important that the Council of State gives an opinion that is wider than we, or some of us, have asked. It is, in fact, remarkable that opinions were also expressed that were not based on legislation or anything else, but opinions that it was said that it might lead to a stalemate if the First Chamber were to participate in the whole case surrounding the new law. This concerns participation within the meaning of the extension or wishing to participate in the sense of being reasonable about the measures to be taken. After all, it is also a major breach of privacy and of the personal lives of our inhabitants. In need, therefore, the government does not consider the parliament as a whole necessary to act in this regard. We regret that, again, very much, and we do not think that is right either. We also find it annoying that some parties look at the citizens who express themselves as a theoretical model and that they are called "saboteurs" by certain researchers. That might say a lot about the CDA, which has brought it to everyone's attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u425	One moment, Mr. Van Pareren. May I remind Members of the request to wear masks while walking through the Chamber? Please continue your argument, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u426	I understand. So that was theoretical. I would like to repeat the sentence, Mr President, in this connection. The CDA indicated that they think these people are saboteurs of the whole society. There is even a hint of disinformation. We find that regrettable. We do not agree with all those who express themselves, but we do want every citizen to be able to express themselves. If that were no longer the case, it would mean that we need censorship in the Netherlands, and that is something that we, as a Forum for Democracy, are far, far away from.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u427	I would like to take this up with you. I used the word "saboteurs" in a very different way. I told you about change strategies and that in change strategies you can divide the group that needs to be changed into three groups. In literature, the group of people who are fervent opponents is called "saboteurs." So that's not what I'm saying. I quote from the literature on change strategies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u428	You said that very clearly. But we can start quoting everything from literature, which does not alter the fact that we have the free right to make a choice from the quotes we want to quote. If you quote from literature, theoretical or whatever, and these people point to saboteurs, because they are referred to in the literature you consulted, I think that is serious. As the President said today, let us try not to use that kind of strong terms, even if it is in the literature. We are here in this Chamber pointing out, and you did so with it. You are referring to a group of people who are not against it but against it. Perhaps, according to your views, we should call ourselves a forum for democracy if we are to vote against this law. I'd be sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u429	No. You put words in my mouth, because I indicated how you might agree or disagree with something in a strategy of change. That is quite different from what you are now putting in my mouth, and I would like to correct that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u430	Here's to it. Please continue your argument, Mr. Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u431	I will, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for that. We also find it very regrettable that this law goes back to punishing people. We regret that compulsion and urge are present. I have said it before: punishment instead of reward. No longsuffering either to those who received towering fines during the first lockdown, because that is not straightened to the current lower level. There is no pity in that, and that is a great pity, because we are looking for something that I understand from the government to people's support, to understanding the situation. That can be done, but it must be balanced and this is not balanced. Let me repeat, because I understand that perhaps not everyone I have said has been well received. So I said that the overwhelming figures about the infections that our citizens see or hear every day are frightening. Why are they frightening? Because so many infections, of course, are scared. It's just, they're numbers they can't post themselves. They do not have enough information to understand what is said. So it is really very important that this wild bounce with large numbers should be properly laid down if the government wants to keep as much support as possible. People need to understand what it means. We now have many people, including the elderly, who are afraid to leave their homes and isolate themselves. They don't have any corona, they don't have anything, but they've gotten scared by this kind of overwhelming information. It is information that you could almost call disinformation, a subject that has also been dealt with. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say a little more about that disinformation. We should then ask our network to provide weighted information. I am talking in particular about the subsidised broadcasters, which the government can and should have influence on. A side issue: on Mr Trump we hear nothing but trouble and torment through these channels, and on Mr Biden we hear nothing but beautiful things. That's unbalanced, and you can't get people's trust through it. Then you're not trying to get the citizens on the same page, and certainly not in an emergency. In this emergency the psychological complaints are also a problem, because this is becoming a regrettable number. That's the nasty bycatch of the corona. There are people who don't know where they stand anymore, and those people require attention. This requires care and, if necessary, treatment. We also have Dr. Westendorp, who worked in Denmark and who has a wonderful interview in Het Parool. He says, "Do you know what they did in Denmark? It's very simple. I was in OMT as an internist, but they kicked me out. I was happy with that, because they went to work with people who had knowledge of people's behavior and how people can be better motivated. A refreshment from the team was there. It wasn't always the same names, faces and thoughts." What's also important is the story of the mouth caps. We've already talked about that a few times today. There is no scientific research for it, but it has to be, because "it will help." That's not a support base either. We're also talking about ventilation. It has been proven that ventilation helps, but "we don't, because there's no scientific evidence for that." How do you expect all citizens in our country to have real support for all measures? That's so important. For us, it is also an important question who is going to pay all the extra costs we are going to incur. Where did that money come from? The simple answer is: the taxpayer. But I don't think it's appropriate right now to raise taxes. We're gonna have to lower them sooner. There are already aid measures that have a similar form. But normally, when you spend more in the state economy, you have to spend less somewhere else. In our case, we would say: spend less on this waste of climate. We've already spent so many billions on biomass plants, none of which ends up. Make sure that we finally have immigration costs under control and that we do not have to pay up to 100 million a year in fines to people who just sit around. Houses are so important. There are so many topics; they actually get bogged down. People don't touch houses anymore. It's a disaster. That's also a pandemic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u432	Mr. Van Pareren, you have 50 seconds left. Would you mind spending it on the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u433	The last point I would like to mention is that I have not yet received a good answer on the vaccines that will be available in December. They'll be available through Pfizer and Oxford. That's what the well-known Dr. Levi says. We're still curious about that. Is the government working on that, too? I'd like to leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u434	Thank you, Mr. Van Pareren. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u435	Mr. Chairman. In the first term, we have heard the cabinet regularly talk about impact. It is therefore a question of strength with regard to the restrictions on freedom of movement in order to mask the incompetence of this cabinet with regard to the provision of the necessary care. Where's the force of action for the care? In this Chamber, this call for strength in restricting the fundamental rights of our citizens goes so far that the CDA calls for the military to enforce the one-and-a-half meter measure and other coercive measures. Armed forces against our own citizens! That's how bad it is in this context. Earlier, when our farmers protested against the nitrogen measures, it appeared that this cabinet did not even back down. Then soldiers came here to lock down the city centre of The Hague. The army should not be used against our own citizens, but should be used to secure our borders against mass immigration. This mass immigration is still facilitated by this cabinet on all sides, despite the corona state. In fact, it is so bad that asylum seekers with corona now have a decent estate in Overijssel, while care is being scaled down for our sick. Mr. Chairman. While this law imposes a great deal of restrictions on our citizens, according to newspaper De Stentor, this so-called corona-azc is not a prison and infected asylum seekers can, in principle, leave the premises undisturbed. How can the cabinet measure with double standards against our citizens? Mr. Chairman. Then I have some outstanding questions from the first term. I have not yet had an answer to the questions about the tests in Abu Dhabi and the use of Belgian laboratories. Furthermore, in the first term, the Minister said that the OMT indicated in the summer that mouth caps were not so necessary, but that this is now different with the increasing infections. The statements I referred to, from the two security region presidents, that masks are not medically necessary and are mainly intended for symbol value and only to raise awareness, were, however, not from the summer, but from the last month. So how can the Minister maintain that the duty of mouth cap is proportionate, if the safety region presidents themselves state that masks are not effective? And what is the real profit of maintaining that which the Minister mentioned in the first term? Mr. Chairman. One more point about the group-building measures. In the outdoors, no more than four people will be allowed to meet. Now outside the Binnenhof is always a group of boat campers doing exercises in the healthy outdoor air. It can't be that that shouldn't happen anymore. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Another point that I have already raised in the first term. What are the possibilities for carnival operators? Do they get a fair chance? The Minister indicated in the first term that the need for the law "is decisive for the presence of the virus," but the question is: to what extent? A virus can also remain active to a very limited extent over the years. Is this more specific? Is this law going to last for years? That is precisely why an information-oriented approach is needed, as I made clear in the first period. It is a good thing that the Minister has opted for an information-oriented approach, but these indicators should really be known at the front so that the measures can be considered. In any case, the PVV continues to find this law disproportionate. The fundamental rights of our citizens are being violated too much. We shall therefore vote against this law tomorrow during the roll-call vote. Mr President, so far in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u436	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I call Mr Meijer on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u437	Thank you, Mr President. Just a few comments. I would like to thank the rulers very much for their reply, which they have done very carefully and in detail. In particular, I would like to commend the VWS Minister, who did so with happiness as if he had not been accountable in Parliament for about two days a week for all the work he has to do in addition. I also liked some parts of the debate from the First Chamber today. I would particularly like to mention Mr Verkerk, with his dilemma of control and freedom, which he indicated. Very central to the debate was the position of our own Chamber. A random passer-by might think this is the most important part of the law. For us, this is not the case, and I have already indicated this in the interruptions in the first period. I think we should be careful not to focus on our own business to the outside world. Two broader topics. The Minister was in retrospect more guilty than in the written reply on the whole course of the draft law in the initial period. What lessons will be drawn from this in the future remains to be seen, but that will be with other draft legislations that we cannot yet foresee. It is good to think about the imaging from the beginning. Thank you to Minister Ollongren for her reflections on disinformation. This is also an issue that is not now suitable for broader answers, but it is good to pay sufficient attention to it. I have one more point in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u438	Mr Van Pareren has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u439	Okay. This has to do with regional differentiation. I understand that the number of infections is now far too high to consider regional differentiation. That is also apparent from the answers. But if it is a little bit on its way, it may be that in some regions this is a reason to scale down measures earlier. I think that this scaling will then take place at the level of a region, because that is the area in which people have their activities. They don't stop at the county line. There is now a great deal of attention to the position of mayors and municipal councils, but I have already indicated that at that stage perhaps the chairman of the security region will come up again. There is no need to change anything in the law now, but think about practical implementation if it is indeed going to be scaled up and scaled up at regional level. Those were my points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u440	I belong to Mr Meijer: we should stop doing so much about ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u441	I didn't say that. I said it was very central. I believe that we have only discussed this point here between 6 p.m. and 7 p.m. An unsuspecting passerby would think that was the main point. But I kept it to myself, because I know at least five people think differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u442	That's right. That's why I'm here. We don't think so. We believe that 75 people's representatives really count in our democracy, that the States-General is there for a reason and that you cannot just exclude a third of the people's representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u443	Mr. Van Pareren, you've made that point a few times. Do you have a question for Mr Meijer? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u444	I don't remember the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u445	I do have an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u446	In any case, you must press the pedal again. You have to speak to me anyway, indeed, and press the pedal again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u447	Gopekee! The question to Mr Meijer is whether he agrees that we have had a very meaningful debate today about the important role of the First Chamber in this temporary emergency law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u448	It's good to think about that, but we appreciate it differently. I do not think that different qualifications, for example the fact that the First Chamber is being thrown away a bit, are relevant. I believe that we are still fully within our powers. I've already exchanged that with you in the first term. We can still fully function. Nor should we disqualify ourselves by the qualifications we give to how things are now regulated. We do not think so, but there has been a detailed exchange of views. You're right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u449	Thank you. I call Mr Dittrich on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u450	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the three rulers for their comprehensive and careful response. It has taken away many questions from my group. So I can also be quite brief in my second term. I started my contribution with the legislative process and the social commotion that arose. Minister De Jonge replied quite eiderically that it should have been better in procedural terms and in terms of content. I would like to leave it at that, because I think it is important for all of us to look to the future and to leave this history to, among other things, the Security Research Council, which is also going to investigate or is already doing all kinds of things about corona. The second point I would like to raise briefly is that point about the role of the Upper House in relation to that of the Lower House. Well, we've all read the Council of State's opinion, we've heard the comprehensive answer, so there's been a lot more clarity about that. I can say that, in my own contribution, I began by saying that as a group we felt a certain inconvenience with that amendment from the House of Representatives. There are still a number of aspects to this inconvenience, and in particular the issue of the extension of the law. So I can very well imagine that, if the law is to be extended, if the cabinet so wishes and there is information coming to the Second and First Chambers, then we will look again carefully at whether that division of roles is adequately arranged. The third point I would like to raise is very important to us: the question of repression of regular healthcare. The Minister for Health has also responded extensively to this. What I understand from this is, in short, that the field is also busy with this and is also developing all kinds of plans and proposals for it. I can say in this period that we will follow that closely, because we believe that it is extremely important for people in the Netherlands to know how the repression of regular health care by corona care is going.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u451	I hear Mr Dittrich speaking differently now than in his first term. He says that there should be a careful look at how things are going with the agreement of the Supreme Court. Well, at least it's positive that there's some moving insight to be observed at D66. Is that also going to mean that you are going to support my amended motion to achieve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u452	I haven't seen your modified motion yet. Sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u453	I'll give it to you, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u454	But I can tell you that we have a group meeting before the vote, and we will, of course, discuss all the motions that have been tabled in this Chamber debate. I don't know what's in your modified motion, but I'll find out later. But what I think is very important is that this law is passed, that we go back to work, and that people in the Netherlands know: this is the law, this is agreed. And my substantive contribution was that, if it were to come to an extension, and we can assume that this proposal will be made, we will look again at the division of roles between the Second and First Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u455	Yes, but of course there is only one time to settle that, and that is now, before the vote; and not that we are going to look again in a few months' time. We need to forge the iron now, if it's hot. It is now on, so I will approach you later to see if I can get you on my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u456	I think it's okay if we move on now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u457	I await Mr Otten's second term, but it does not want to be said that now is the time and never again. Mr. Chairman. The next point is communication. It is always difficult to tell exactly what you are going to do with that communication, but it is of course important that people in the Netherlands know what has been agreed, what is in the law and what the follow-up steps are. So once again my appeal to do so in a clear way. That is what we will follow and we will return to it on occasion with the cabinet if we think that is not good enough. Mr. Chairman. Two more small points. The disinformation. I would just like to say that the government must be careful not to assume the role of the government in saying that this expression is good, and it is not. If that were to happen in a country like Poland, let me give you an example: we would also say: that really goes too far. So caution must be exercised in this respect, but obviously, if there are any factual errors or whatever, this must be brought forward from the government. Finally, Mr President. There was a point about covid and the temporary elections. The Minister for the Interior said, quite rightly, that there are already reclassification elections on 18 November. Tomorrow we will discuss this issue in the Permanent Chambers Committee on the Interior. I understand the urgency very well. I have heard Mr Van Pareren, who has also raised this issue. I hope, I say to colleagues, that tomorrow we can agree to act as quickly as possible and vote already on 3 November, so that the people in the municipalities know where they stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u458	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. I call Mr Van Dijk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u459	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also very much to the messengers for the constant care for our hygiene, even at this late hour. I thank the rulers very much for all the answers that were clear and relevant. It does not make this law a pleasant law, but the SGP is pleased that this will soon be a thing of the past. I would like to thank the Minister of Honor for underlining the fundamental right of religious freedom and for continuing to discuss customization for ecclesiastical worship. I call on the Minister of VWS to continue to respect the position of conscientious objectors in accordance with a long Dutch tradition, and to ensure that they are effectively excluded from normal functioning in society. Mr. Chairman. Much has been exchanged about the position of the Upper House in this bill, in distinction from the Lower House. The critical questions are legitimate. After all, we should not allow our position as a senate to be undermined, not even when it comes to ministerial arrangements. Even if these questions are most strongly asked by parties who consider the whole Senate to be superfluous, we must take these questions seriously. At the same time, at a time when it is usually urgent and urgent measures aimed at public health, the SGP maintains that it is justifiable to leave the focus on the body which has the political primacy, namely the Second Chamber, in these cases. This also reduces the risk of First and Second Chamber confronting each other in this precarious matter. If the Minister, supported by the House of Representatives, wants a measure that does not please us as the First Chamber, we invite the Minister for a debate and we drive him back to his ministry with a spiced motion. It's not like we're toothless all of a sudden. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, we are living in a special time, which requires special measures. It is precisely in such a time that adequate control of power is elementary. This law makes a significant contribution to this. That is why the SGP supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u460	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I call Mrs Prins, on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u461	Mr. Chairman. Thank you on our behalf, too, for answering the many questions. It's been really hard working on that again. We are pleased that this has helped us to adopt a further position. The CDA Group would like to draw attention to the following two issues. As has already been said, we attach great importance to providing citizens with the right information on this law, on why the law and on what the law does and does not mean, but also on the major risks of the corona virus and on what is needed to contain infection. That too is a counterpart to the many fake news. We therefore welcome the government's commitment to take responsibility for this. We are thinking only of facts and figures, because fortunately we live in a country where everyone is still allowed to express their opinion. In this context, we would like to see a commitment from the cabinet that it is using a communication approach which is precisely focused on the use of the media and in terms of accessibility, language and examples, and I would like to say this to the ordinary citizen. The one who doesn't search every day for the facts of the virus, but who really wants to know something but doesn't even know where to look. So reach for it and don't let it become a search. That would be our request. Second. Normally, the future is already uncertain, but in this current crisis time with the erratic virus, uncertainty increases extremely. Can we assume that the cabinet is developing different scenarios to see how we can deal with the effects of the virus even more cleverly? Will the expertise that is present at various ministries, but also in science and with many experts in this field, be put to the best possible use? The question to the cabinet is: is this assumption correct? If so, why? If not, why not? And in that context, we would like to have a commitment that the monthly information provision, as indicated in this temporary law, will always inform the two chambers of the developed scenarios with their advantages and disadvantages.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u462	Thank you, Mrs. Prince. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u463	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the three ministers for their detailed and thorough reply. In our system of state and state law, it is possible that the Upper House votes differently from the Lower House. Yeah, it can sand, though it's rare. It is not appropriate, then, that the right of the First Chamber can be restricted by the Cabinet and the House of Representatives. As far as we are concerned, the Buitenweg amendment is a slippery slope towards the Upper House. It has a dangerous precedent. The First Chamber, I told you before, lamb or lion. I also refer to the material limitation of the position of the Upper Chamber that may arise, or re-emerging, as, for example, a tax plan ignores the motion Hoekstra of four years ago, as is the case in some sense with the new Tax Plan including the BIK. I would like to make the point that the Second and First Chambers rarely vote against a tax plan. It almost happened once in the past, when D66 as a coalition partner in the Second and First Chambers threatened to vote against a tax plan. I have already noted in the first term that the time limit for the Second and First Chambers can start and run simultaneously. This means, in my opinion, that, on the same day, the Second and First Chambers will decide on a proposal, as well as a ministerial arrangement. This afternoon we discussed in detail the closure of schools, which could be discussed in this context. I have called on the Cabinet, but also on the House of Representatives, to build a bridge together in respect of far-reaching ministerial regulations that violate fundamental rights. For us, it is important that the law should provide a democratic basis for the measures taken by the cabinet and that the emergency regulations should then be in the past. Mr. Chairman. I've announced a motion, and that's the next one. The President shall: Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Janssen, Mr Otten and Mr Nicolaï proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, by means of the Buitenweg amendment, measures covid-19 have been introduced in the Temporary Law, the possibility of submitting a ministerial arrangement to the House of Representatives by means of a suspension procedure;]] [[Whereas, in the event of a very urgent circumstance requiring immediate action to reduce danger, a ministerial arrangement shall enter into force immediately after its adoption and publication, but where the Second Chamber decides not to agree to the arrangement within one week of its transmission, it shall automatically lapse;]] [[Whereas one third of the constitutional number of members, 50 of them members of the House of Representatives, is sufficient to allow the House of Representatives to vote on such a decision;]] [[Whereas, in the light of the procedure described above, only the Lower House is given the power to decide whether or not to agree and the Upper Chamber has no role to play;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable to withhold the agreement of the Supreme Court in very far-reaching ministerial arrangements which infringe fundamental rights;]] [[Invites the Government to submit to the First Chamber urgent ministerial arrangements under the Temporary Law measures covid-19, by means of a suspension procedure, the so-called "heavy veils', so that the First Chamber can also vote on them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35526-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u464	Finally, I have a question for the Minister for Health. We talked about medical and non-medical this afternoon. We raised the question of what would happen if criteria for triage were to be found in the event of scarcity on non-medical grounds. If I understand correctly, the Minister said that by law it will never be included that age alone will be the criterion. Can the Minister repeat that promise? Then I asked him the question: what if the law were to include it as an important, if not a very important, criterion for balancing? That is not 'only', but 'considerable' or'very heavy'. Will the Minister promise that this will not be included in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u465	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I call Mr Janssen, who will speak on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u466	Thank you, Mr President. I will pass staccato through a number of points, with a motion and a final Loesje. The Minister of VWS said that the cabinet is further restricted by this law. That is, of course, only partly true, because the current system of fundamental rights restricts on the basis of emergency regulations and leads to the end of its legal sustainability, because that is simply not what they are intended for. So the wait is for the first judge to say, "That's not how we do it anymore." Although it is a restriction in the environment, it is also an extension of the end of the legal sustainability of the measures based on emergency regulations and indications. The parliamentary involvement of the Upper House. The Minister of VWS I thought I heard say that the involvement of the First Chamber is very much affected by the executive role of the cabinet. If that is the issue of concern, why did the Minister give the Chamber's opinion and agree to the Buitenweg amendment? If there is anything that affects the executive role of the minister and of the cabinet, it is Article 58c of the bill. A practical question. The Minister said that an arrangement or measure is expected to go to the House of Representatives every week or every two weeks. Has there been any thought about the practical side of this development with the celebrations of the House of Representatives in December/January and in February/March the election recess? That's gonna work. Does that mean everything's gonna be urgent? Is everything going to be Article 3? Or has another solution been devised, because in the coming months the House of Representatives will be absent for about two and a half months? The question is, how does that work? I'm still missing a few answers. The first is the evaluation of the Mexican flu from 2011. I asked if there were any lessons from that at the Ministry. Did something happen to that? I have listed all the points that were the subject of the evaluation. They come back one-on-one in this crisis. So we could have been prepared on a number of points, let me just say. My question was also very specific: are the authors of this evaluation still involved by the Ministry in dealing with this crisis? I also did not receive an answer to my question on 58c, paragraph 3. This was about the question if a measure is taken urgently, for example for the catering industry. Suppose the minister closes the catering business and then the House of Representatives votes away after a week. Meanwhile, the companies have been closed. Is there any question of liability and how has the damage been dealt with? Or is that "account man" like you used to say in military service and do those who are victims of it just have bad luck? Mr. Chairman. The Minister's answer to my question on Rule 59f (4). That was about the dead letter. The Minister mentioned why Article 58f is a good article and not a dead letter, but I am only concerned with paragraph 4. It says you have to keep a safe distance, unless there's an alternative that's equally good. Since there is no alternative, it is therefore de facto, until research shows that something is coming, a dead letter. My question was whether you should give a dead letter force of law, or whether next time, if updated, this could be dealt with in a different way in a ministerial arrangement. I do not think the introduction of dead letters is what we should want if we look at legislative quality. In any case, it has become clear that there is no active ratification necessary for the entry into force of the arrangements. It's "yes, unless" and not "no, if." That is a lot of things in succession that may create confusion, but it is at least the case that a regulation simply comes into force if nothing happens. And it is a pity that the Council of State misses out in two places in the opinion, on pages 11 and 13, because that gives a confusing picture. It's a big deal, you know. The Secretary of State said it doesn't matter for judgment, but I don't know if it does. Maybe it doesn't matter from a state or from a legal point of view, but it does matter if the Council of State comes to the opinion that it is very real and takes a lot of time if the First Chamber still has to do all that. It does so on the basis that everything requires active ratification, so that we should also vote here every week, come together and have a debate. That is something other than that the Council of State assumes that if we do nothing, we will simply say: fine, let it go. Then there is no effort at all and there is no waste of time. Then nothing's going to happen and nothing's going to happen. Then we do not even have to put it on the agenda; then we do not have to hammer it; then nothing happens. That is why I have a different view of the Minister's conclusion that it does not matter. At least I think it's too soon. The OVV is investigating the attention of the cabinet. Now, a number of years ago, the OVV introduced the rule that, because too little was done and because he had too little insight into the implementation of his recommendations, he would ask after a year what happened to his recommendations. I would like to call on the OVV from this place, given everything that is happening and the evaluations that are going to come, and also given the possibility that this may not be the only pandemic that we are going to deal with, I mentioned all the Mexican flu, but who knows what else is coming after us to ask what is going on every year for the next five years. This is a call from me, not from the Cabinet, to the OVV to look into it. Then I come to a crucial point, namely the extension. I remain of the opinion that when it comes to restricting fundamental rights, the right to confess a religion or the right to assembly, the ultimate judgment on the continuation of that law, the decisive judgment, after we have agreed to it today, belongs to the States General and not to the Cabinet. That's why I made a motion. The President shall: Mr Janssen, Mr Van Pareren, Mr Otten, Mr De Vries, Mr Nicolaï and Mr Van Rooijen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the law allows for measures to restrict fundamental rights;]] [[Considers that the extension of the law of determining control is the responsibility of the States-General;]] [[calls on the Government to make this possible at the shortest possible time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35526-L]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u467	Sure, but I'll keep him with me just in case Mr Recourt wants to ask you about it. And I don't know the motion by heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u468	I must first add the motion to the Acts, otherwise it will not be part of the deliberations. Are you at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u469	No, Mr President, but I await Mr Recourt's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u470	I'd say finish your story. I shall then give the floor to Mr Recourt in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u471	I was almost at the end. I just wanted to close with a Loesje, but perhaps I can do that in the direction of the cabinet, also on the basis of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u472	That's what I suspected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u473	The last Loesje I'd like to use tonight is: turn walls into doors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u474	That's what I thought. Mr Recourt is now in full focus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u475	I have a question about the explanation of the motion. Mr Janssen talks about the States-General, the Second and the First Chamber. The cabinet could say: we place those powers in the Lower House and not in the Upper Chamber. I assume that is not what you mean and that it is both a power for the Second Chamber and for the First Chamber to judge independently of each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u476	Yes, I also addressed the Minister: we say Lower House when we mean Lower Chamber, we say Upper Chamber when we mean Upper Chamber and we say Parliament or States-General when we mean both Chambers. This is really about both rooms. On the contrary, I left the operative part open by referring to 'at the shortest possible time', because if this motion were to be adopted, I would like to wait for a proposal from the cabinet and see what is to come and what period that can be arranged. Is that a week or a month? Or do they say that, at the time of the first extension, we must ensure that from then on it is always up to the States-General? I'll leave that open. If this motion were to be adopted, I would be happy to await the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u477	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mrs De Boer on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u478	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the ministers for their answers. Much of the debate in this Chamber has dealt with our own role. In my first term, I said that, in our view, there is no question of excluding the First Chamber. The First Chamber has and keeps the ordinary powers. On top of that, the House of Representatives has given itself an additional instrument for this particular situation. Various possibilities have been mentioned in this debate to strengthen the role of the First Chamber in the ministerial arrangements and that of the whole of the States-General in the extension. I am going to discuss this with my group, and I can say in advance that any amendment should not delay the entry into force of the law as far as we are concerned. I would like to hear the views of the ministers on the various possibilities. It is good that the VWS Minister has said once again that no other measures can be taken under this law than those mentioned in the law, that these are only measures outside the home and that, if other measures are needed, new legislation is needed. I do not think that this can be repeated often enough because there is a great deal of uncertainty about this. What is less clear is what Minister Ollongren said about the necessary necessity and effectiveness of measures that violate fundamental rights. I assume, however, that a ministerial arrangement must demonstrate the need for that specific measure and therefore it is not enough that there is a general need to do something and a possible effect of a measure. That seems to me to be a very slight justification for the need for intervention. I'd like a response from the Minister. Then it's about enforcement. The opening of today's six-hour report was that the police have insufficient capacity to fine participants of illegal parties. We heard the Justice Minister say here this afternoon that there is no capacity problem. What is it now? As far as we are concerned, Minister Grapperhaus was not very clear when he talked about being allowed and unable, maintaining and responsibilities of parents. This kind of ambiguity marks the communication of the cabinet that I referred to earlier: the diffusion of weighting, freedom and control. As far as we are concerned, this is not a clear communication that is needed to regain acceptance. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also said something about communication, information and countering disinformation. The government would already actively inform about the virus and the measures. She said that the government generally has no role for itself in fact-checking disinformation, but it does in dealing with the corona crisis. That's what's gonna happen. Unfortunately, I haven't seen much of that. In the preparation of this debate, I once Googled on: is corona worse than the flu? I'm not gonna end up with public sector information. I asked in the first period why there is no such thing as a frequently asked questions, in which these kinds of questions are answered, the questions that live with people. Furthermore, tonight there was news that people need perspective; that is also missed in communication. So it should not just be about what kind of measures we are all facing, but also about where we are going. So again, that communication can do a little better. Vulnerable groups. I got an answer from the minister about vulnerable groups, but that was about people who are extra vulnerable to the virus. I referred in particular to the socio-economic vulnerable and the impact of the measures on them. As an example, I mentioned the sex workers. I asked whether all measures would also take into account the impact on, for example, socio-economically vulnerable people. Finally. I heard the Minister say that the law may enter into force on 1 December. That surprised me, because we are dealing with it here in two weeks, so that the law can enter into force as soon as possible. I think December 1st is pretty far away. So can't and shouldn't be before, and what does this mean, for example, for imposing the oral cap? In addition to the fact that this is feared, some places are looking forward to it as well. I mention, for example, the fact that schools sometimes sit around and jump. I was on time for the second, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u479	I saw it, Mrs. De Boer, well timed. Thank you. I call Mr Nicolaï, who will speak on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u480	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the three ministers for their reply. I note that, in the atmosphere of the interruptions, we have really got clarity on a number of points. In any case, this clarity was not such that we would abandon our group's opposition to this law. There are four points I would like to make in this connection. Firstly, there is something that we are not alone in at all: the exclusion of the agreement with the ministerial arrangements is inexhaustible to us. We also signed the motion of 50PLUS. We believe that this must be changed quickly. Another point. I referred to the too limited balancing framework in Article 58b of the current law. I also called it a one-dimensional law. I have not actually heard anything about this, but it is so very important that it is understood that, in addition to the one objective, which is now actually given priority in the law, the protection of public health and the fight against the epidemic, there are other public targets which should, in principle, be considered equally. These are, for example, employment, the environment, culture, good education; that sort of thing. I also mentioned that piece in the NRC, in which three directors of planning agencies actually say: you are too limited; beware that you do not get a tunnel vision. That balancing framework is still too limited, and that is another reason why our group says: that is inexhaustible. Then I talked about a number of missing bases in the law. I asked the U.S. Secretary about the ventilation. I have had a whole story about whether that is good or not, but my question was: what if it is scientifically proven at some point that it is an important aspect, is there a basis in the current law for setting rules on that point? There is no basis. That's just a flaw. I also asked the VWS Minister: can you explain once again that there is a basis for that breeding ban on mink? Because we also believe that that basis should be included in this law. I understand that he believes that Article 55 of the Animal Health and Welfare Act provides that basis. He gave it to me too, he was nice, and I had already visited him myself. Sorry, but it provides that a breeding ban may be imposed on an animal which has one or more designated diseases which could affect the health or well-being of that animal or its offspring. That's a completely different matter. That is not a breeding ban imposed to prevent a time bomb of mink from being created somewhere that can transfer covid to humans. So the lack of a basis for such a regulation is also a serious matter. Another fierce case in which the foundation is lacking is the question of the black scenario in triage. That's what I've been talking about. Mr Van Rooijen has already mentioned criteria. I don't think we should be talking about that right now. All I have said is that this law should provide a basis for the government to lay down rules for the situation that triage is no longer possible on medical grounds and that therefore extra-medical considerations will play a role. That's what the government's supposed to do. I have also asked for an answer to that question, and I have not received an answer as to whether we are prepared for what will happen if the black scenario arises in the near future due to the fact that people in the hospital are refused entry into the black scenario. I would like an answer to that. Finally, an important point is that our group does not have that much confidence in the application of the requirement of necessity. Mrs De Boer van GroenLinks also pointed out that it is a bit shady what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has put forward here. At the beginning, the Minister said that they are only going to do things that are absolutely necessary. I was very happy about that. But a little later she said that they could take a measure for each limited contribution. Then the question arises as to whether we do not end up on the wrong path. Can you not think of bizarre situations, of which I too, and I assume the Minister is convinced that they could make a limited contribution? As an example, I call blowing your nose in a public space. If you forbid this, this could make a limited contribution. If you ban singing on the street, it could make a limited contribution. Hard laughing in the shop could also make a limited contribution. I imagine you say: what are these bizarre examples? You could also ban the use of musical instruments on the streets. Could this make a limited contribution? The current model regulation prohibits the presence of sound equipment and musical instruments in designated locations. I asked what relationship exists between the carrying of musical instruments and the possible contamination of others with COVID-19. I thought, "I'm very curious." Then the answer was: this is to prevent large groups from coming together in the form of illegal pop-up parties, with all the risks for the spread of the coronavirus. That is currently a rule, a ban. I understand from the US Secretary of State that all the emergency regulations are to be incorporated into the ministerial arrangements. Is there not such a far-off link that you can no longer maintain that this is covered by the requirement of necessity? In this way I can bring forward a lot of other examples. Our fear is that if it is not very clear... Mrs De Boer's question was entirely appropriate. It must be very clear that the necessity must be demonstrated in relation to what you are about to ban. It should not be said: we wipe everything together a little bit and if it all helps, then it is good. We are talking here about restricting fundamental rights. Then we can't be tough enough. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u481	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. I shall then give the floor to Mr Recourt. He speaks on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u482	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, members of the cabinet for the answers. They were often very good answers. I have already said in the first term that my group has a positive attitude towards this law. It is a framework law, which specifies the bandwidth and the measures that can be taken. It also provides a firmer control. I have six points I would like to make briefly. I shall begin with the point that is the most important point as far as my group is concerned. This concerns the role of the First Chamber. I say to Mr Meijer that my group considers this to be a very important point, because it is about democratic control. I have read the law in this way in the first instance: these ministerial arrangements require urgency and it is not convenient to have two chambers do the same. It will then fit better with the House of Representatives, with that right of assent, or that right of veto, or whatever you want to call it, to be involved in that urgency. That does not alter the fact that the First Chamber can still speak about these ministerial arrangements. That way, I don't mind. However, I found the cabinet very sparing in explaining this. Then came: what if the First and Second Chambers have opposing opinions? That's the essence of a two-chamber system. It has been for a century and a half and it rarely happens that there is an opposite opinion, but it is the core. It may pose a problem for the cabinet if the Lower House says a and the Upper Chamber b. I get that. Let's solve that problem. We see in all this time that both Chambers are actually quite prudent in their own roles. There's not such a big problem. In short, I'm still assuming the following. I also hope that this can be confirmed in the second term of the cabinet. I hope that the First Chamber, not in that urgent procedure, but at a later stage, which is a little more reflective, even if the House of Representatives thinks it is a good measure, can say: we do not think it is. I hope that the First Chamber will then be able to put that in a motion and that the cabinet will not say: 'todeledokie', because the Second Chamber will say something else. That's what popularly said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u483	For the Acts: toodledokie.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u484	Yeah, exactly. Then I have a second point. This concerns the three-month extension. There's a front for both rooms. That's all fine, but it's a light front and not a heavy one. My group would have preferred a heavy front. It is quite fundamental to extend that law, because it makes all these measures possible. So that heavy veil fits better. Now my group does not want any delay in the form of a novelle or anything like that either. I have heard a number of other speakers who steered about the same direction. I have also heard a practical proposal. I didn't come up with that proposal myself, but I'm going to call it now. I hope that the cabinet will be able to embrace this by, at the time of the first extension, settling that heavy veil in a repair law in three months' time. Then we won't have a delay, but we'll have a firmer control mechanism through the First Chamber. That is not on all individual measures. When that commitment comes, I have confidence in it, but on a much more fundamental consideration, this law, which makes all these infringements possible, still needs to be continued. I'd really appreciate it if the cabinet could promise that. Then I have some more practical points. We were actually talking about Article 58, b and c. That is the Buitenweg amendment. The minister says: we prefer not c, the emergency variant, but the royal route of consent by the House of Representatives. Can the Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, explain why this is necessary when they do not follow the royal path? That seems obvious to me, but I just wanted to ask. I welcome the commitments on communication. For example, there will be more active communication, including the deception. Thank you for that. I agree with what both the spokeswoman of GroenLinks and the spokeswoman of the CDA said, because there can indeed be a step forward in this active communication. That is why the question to the Minister for the Interior is whether she can say in concrete terms what active communication is going to be used, specifically about this law and the underlying measures, which will lead me to have more confidence that citizens who google for flu will also hear a different sound. The mandatory isolation based on the Wpg. The presidents of the security regions must do so. I understand that these presidents do not do that and say: institution, find out. Minister, will you ensure that the Presidents assume this role? Because they're the ones who have to do that. The missing foundations, which Mr Nicolaï mentioned. I thought that was very valid, and I would say that in three months' time, take it with me in the repair law. Finally, privacy. We have heard from the Minister that institutions can carry out a contact investigation themselves. That's good and that's how it works, but it shouldn't be in conflict with the GDPR. Can the Minister promise that this will indeed not lead to a conflict with the GDPR? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u485	Thank you, Mr Recourt. I call Mr Verkerk on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u486	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Ministers very much for the answers. I would also like to thank the officials for their hard work. It was also nice to hear that Professor Dooyeweerd's name and fame is also known in the catholic narrow part of the CDA. I'm so glad to hear that! I will quote him here more often and gladly discuss him with Minister Grapperhaus. Thank you also for the commitment of Minister Ollongren to the search for good solutions. Thank you very much for that. Mr. Chairman. There is one point I would like to emphasise. We have said that there is a lot of social unrest after all. Whether we like it or not, it's a fact. So I would really like to invite the Cabinet to ask itself very carefully in its information and in its interaction with society what, in view of the unrest and in view of the mistrust and the misinformation, to use that word for a moment, is the best way to raise this issue. I would like to recommend that in your mind. Mr. Chairman. Much has been said about the role of the First Chamber. A number of senators have said that the First Chamber is out of play or that the First Chamber is putting itself out of operation. Those are big words. The opinion of the Council of State states that it is justifiable that there is a difference between the First and Second Chambers. Furthermore, the Montesquieu Institute, especially for lawyers not unknown, says something similar, namely: "The other position of the Upper House is reason to be reluctant about delegated legislation. It's okay, but it has to be limited." I think that both statements make it difficult to use big words about the role of the First Chamber, especially if that happens in the superb staircase. Mr. Chairman. There's something fun, too. In the retorica it is a well-known style figure to turn on your arguments and put it in the superb stairs. That then leads to what they call "a stroman." And the nice thing about a strawman is that you fall into a fallacy if you try to refute it and therefore your entire argumentation lapses. Mr. Chairman. It also strikes me that a number of parties that emphasise the role of the First Chamber are very strongly on the mindset, with the result that the cabinet has little room for very good policy on the protection of our society and on ensuring that there is good capacity in care. I'm just noticing that. Mr. Chairman. There has also been a brief mention of triage. Reference has been made to the FMS hand-out. I read that weekend hand-off. First of all, this manual looks at ethics in a very nuanced way and asks what standards or values you can use to make choices in the blackest scenario. One very special point is highlighted, namely that making a difference or distinction on the basis of age does not necessarily mean that there is age discrimination. I would therefore ask the Minister not to say too much about this now, because I think it would be better to first discuss ethical principles and then look at political consequences rather than draw political consequences before we discuss ethical principles. Finally, Mr President. The Christian Union Group believes that this law should be adopted quickly and should enter into force quickly. I told you I read FMS' handdressing. I found it very impressive. I also found it shocking to read that doctors will soon have to make a choice on non-medical grounds in whom they care and who they do not. I found that very confrontational. That means that for us too, as Christian Union, the motivation to say 'let us vote in favour of this law' is something I strongly recommend to my group. If we do not vote in favour, we will be stuck with the emergency regulations. I can also imagine, as Mr Dittrich has also said, and in other words, by Mr Recourt, that we are looking at the possibility of a different division of roles when extending. I can imagine. At the moment, I think it is important that this law be passed quickly and that the Cabinet has every opportunity to ensure that every Dutchman needs care, that there is a bed if he needs it and that there is an ic-bed if he needs it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u487	I hear Mr Verkerk asking the Minister for an opinion on how age should play a role in the case of non-medical arguments in the event of scarcity. He asked the Minister to reply with restraint. He's not gonna blame me for asking the Minister to clarify that tonight, is he? I am sure that, if that clarity does not come out tonight, Mr Verkerk will see with me that, starting tomorrow morning, there will be great unrest in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u488	I have indicated why I think it is important that we first have the ethical debate and then talk about the political consequences. It is your right to choose to do that the other way around. That's just not my choice. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u489	We can't talk about what's ethical or not ethical at this late hour. I believe that, politically speaking, Parliament should give an opinion on this, because it is not about medical consideration. You should not allow doctors to make decisions based solely or mainly on age in situations of scarcity. That's my point. That is a matter of politics, of the cabinet and of the Second and First Chamber. I suppose you understand and respect that, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u490	I understand, and I respect that. All I'm saying is that I think it's important that we have the ethical discussion first and then the political discussion and not the other way around. That's all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u491	Finally, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u492	Yeah, finally. I do not know when you think that this ethical discussion will be clarified and concluded. That could take a long time. There is nothing more complicated than ethical issues. We all know that. Think about abortion legislation, euthanasia, donor legislation and so on. All these things are also ethically important. My point is that it's necessary. We now have a right to visit in nursing homes, but it must also be the case that older people and vulnerable people in particular know that age in the event of scarcity does not become an exclusive or almost exclusive criterion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u493	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Then Mr Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u494	I would like to approach it something else, but it comes down to the same thing in the end. It is, of course, scandalous that we are now in a situation where we need to think about this, that we need to carry out triage and that we need to decide on the lives of people in our society. That's a disgrace. You are now making the connection and saying: we are voting for the law, because then everything will be better. But care has been broken down in the Netherlands for ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u495	What's your question, Mr. Van Pareren?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u496	My question is how it can be that the Christian Union is okay with this happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u497	Mr President, I have no need...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u498	Can I ask for some silence in the room, even here at the CDA? Thank you. I'm gonna see if here... Wait a minute... Go ahead, Mr. Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u499	There are some colleagues in the Chamber who repeatedly stress that it has been going badly for years and that everything is being broken down. I'm going to distance myself from that. That's for the first time. The second is that I ended with a personal note, in the vein of: I read that report and I found it very confrontational, because I saw myself standing there, I saw you standing there, I saw many colleagues from here who are all of an older age; at least some of them. That confrontational argument I have here as a so-called 'emotional' or 'emotional' is what I wanted to put forward. Personally, I do not find that shameful. I think that is a piece of realism and dare to look into the future. I would like to point out that I have already said that I want to encourage the cabinet to act. If we talk here for a long time, we don't act. If we always bring the ministers here to this Chamber, they won't have time to act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u500	Mr. Van Pareren, do you have another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u501	It's more of a reaction. The point is that I am equally emotional, but especially about the fact that we have to deal with this issue in the Netherlands in 2020 anyway. I am moved by the fact that this subject is now on the table. You are emotional about that in your own way, but I really distance myself from what you said at the beginning of your answer. At that time, you indicated that there are groups or parties in this Chamber who feel that it is all being broken down. I didn't say that. You probably mean others, but you did point it at me. I've said it's incredibly sad for people. And those aren't just 70-plus or 60-plus. They could also be people of 20 or 30. But it's just...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u502	Thank you, Mr. Van Pareren. I'm going to end your interruption. An interruption is intended for a short supplementary question. You are now explaining your views. I have given you the opportunity to do so, but now I am going to break it down. So if you can conclude, very much, unless you have one more question for Mr Verkerk. By the way, this was your third interruption in this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u503	Thank you for this wise lesson, Mr President. The question to Mr Verkerk is: can the Christian Union not take a little more space to look more broadly at what is actually going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u504	Thank you. Mr. Verkerk, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u505	In all honesty, I think I have shown in my contribution as well as in my written contributions that I know very well what is actually going on. And because I know that well, I have also made a certain contribution here, and I have also said something about this here in my closing statement. Not because I wanted to, but because that discussion was started here and I thought I should say something about that triage. And that you have a different emotion than I do... That's all fine, I have this emotion. And that also has a certain political effect, because I am undoubtedly not the only one who has that emotion; I have met her in many places. And I shouldn't think about being a doctor, and doing a triage on non-medical grounds. I would also like to comment on Mr Van Rooijen's question in this respect: as far as I am concerned, we are going to discuss this matter at the right time with the Minister, as far as this matter is concerned, and I do not know exactly the status of it, and we are going to debate it at the right time. But then I'd like to take a look at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u506	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. Finally, Mr Otten has the floor on behalf of the Otten Group. I have to say 'finally in this period', because after that, of course, we will have a deadline from the government, immediately following. Mr Otten is just making his final notes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u507	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was surprised today, surprised at the docility of many in this important popular representative body, which, together with the House of Representatives, forms our Dutch parliament. The Vice-President of the Council of State gave all sorts of unsolicited opinions that drastically restrict the role of this First Chamber, and many in this First Chamber run into the democratic ravine like a bunch of easy sheep. I don't understand. Our group is in favour of an effective approach to the corona crisis. But this emergency law isn't. That is the overgrown Dutch administrative garden a bit raking, but structuralally this emergency law does not solve anything. Mr. Chairman. As I said in the first term: temporary solutions take the longest. And I gave some examples. Meanwhile, many other examples have been sent to me in recent hours, such as the VAT increase in 2012: to 21% due to the crisis, which would be temporary, but has never been reversed. And also the Crisis and Recovery Act, and I can go on like this for a while. Temporary solutions take the longest time, and that is also the danger of this emergency law. Our group is very concerned about the path taken by this emergency law, which seriously violates our fundamental rights and eliminates the democratic influence of the First Chamber. This elected First Chamber is being sidelined by an unelected referee. "Democratic self-destruction" I called it. Others had more intense words. Mr. Chairman. Our group has been extremely disturbed by the attitude of Minister De Jonge, who saw the First Chamber as a tricky body that only stops the matter with a lot of meeting stuff, and we have shown very often that we can act quickly if necessary. If someone has wasted too much time meeting over the past six months instead of showing decisive leadership, we believe that this is Minister Hugo de Jonge. That is why I spoke in an interruption with Minister De Jonge about a 'half coup'. It was perfectly right, Mr. Chairman, that you should intervene at that time. Because, of course, I should have used the term'self-coup': that is the correct legal situation in which the existing government is putting the parliament out of play, and that is, of course, what is actually happening here. That is the right qualification I should have used, so you were fully within your right to correct me in that, Mr President. Mr. Chairman. We believe that this cannot be done and that the government should do something about it. After consulting a number of other groups, Mr De Vries and I have modified our motion under letter J. It's like this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u508	The motion-Otten c.s. (' point ') has been amended to read as follows: The Chamber, heard the debate, Whereas the Temporary Law gives far-reaching powers to the Government, which may infringe the fundamental rights of citizens, measures covid-19 (hereinafter referred to as "the Law of Prosperity'); Whereas, pursuant to Article 58c of the Emergency Law, ministerial arrangements with far-reaching implications for citizens can be established without the relevant involvement of the Supreme Court; calls on the Government to find a solution in the short term to ensure that the role of the First Chamber is adequately guaranteed in the agreement of the Ministerial Regulations under the Emergency Act, and goes to the order of the day. This amended motion was signed by Mr Otten, Mr De Vries, Mr Janssen, Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Nicolaï and Mr Van Pareren. She gets letter M, was letter J ().
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u509	Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. If this emergency law is adopted in its present form, it is the axe at the root of the right of existence of this First Chamber. Co-First Members of Parliament, know what you're doing. For the First Chamber tomorrow is the motto: it's now or never. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u510	I have one more question for Mr Otten. If I understand his group's position correctly, he says that this law was not necessary at all, the government should get to work, not so many meetings, just take action and work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u511	Correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u512	This means continuing with emergency legislation, in which we as First Members of Parliament have virtually nothing to do with it. Today we are talking about a law that regulates better democratic control for both the Second and the First Chambers. It's not optimal yet, but it's better. How can Mr Otten be so incredibly sure about the need for a man, that there is a coup and I know what? His own point of view is correct: even less control by the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u513	No, the problem here is not the legislation. Every solution is sought by this cabinet in new laws, for the corona app, for the emergency law. The problem is a non-functioning administrative model. The covid crisis reveals that this polder, which we in the Netherlands are so good at and have come quite far with in the past, is no longer working in the present time. You're gonna need a lot more force and force to use the word of our neighbors. That's the problem. The problem is not putting all kinds of far-reaching powers in the cabinet now. You have to make sure the people who have to do it can do it. If they can't do it, you have to replace them. That's the problem. That legislation is not the problem. That's symptom control. I see Mr... the PvdA delegate has sat down, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u514	Mr Recourt is that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u515	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm assuming he's resting on this. If there are no other questions, I'll finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u516	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in second term? That is not the case. Let me take a look at the three ministers. They're asking for a ten-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u517	I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u518	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I have four motions that I would like to deal with and then I have a few more questions. I think it's practical if I make the motions first. Firstly, Mr Otten, Mr De Vries, Mr Janssen, Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Nicolaï and Mr Van Pareren's motion with the letter M. It calls on the government to find a solution in the short term, ensuring the role of the First Chamber in the agreement of the ministerial regulations under the emergency law. I believe that we have had this debate exhaustively. With reference to the argument in that debate, I would advise against this motion. The motion by Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Janssen, Mr Otten and Mr Nicolaï with the letter K. It requires something similar, namely a similar procedure to that of the House of Representatives. I would also advise against this motion, referring to the debate we have held on this subject. The motion with the letter I of Mr Van Hattem of the PVV deals with verifiable indicators. I would ask that this motion be retained because we are currently in the process of shaping the first ministerial arrangement. This regulation is actually the overhang of the current emergency regulations in the form prescribed by this law. But right after that, we are indeed going to start translating the roadmap that we have made into an arrangement. We want to include as many verifiable indicators as possible. I just want to leave something of freedom to the exact form in which we do so. If it's all right with you, I'd like to ask you to hold this motion. In any case, our intention is the same, namely to be as predictable as possible given the state of contamination and the appropriate measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u519	I'd consider that, but I'll run into a practical problem. If I'm going to hold the motion, I'm going to have to deal with the point that these arrangements won't come back to the Supreme Court for approval. Then we run into it in a practical sense. On the contrary, I think it is important to look at these testable indicators from the outset. If the Minister himself says he wants to include the verifiable indicators in the process, the motion of mine may also be read as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u520	Yeah, let's do it like this. If you allow the Cabinet any room in the way we will, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. That's how we can do it, because the intention is the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u521	Well, I guess that makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u522	Then you'll put the motion to the vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u523	Yes. I'll put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u524	The motion by Mr Van Pareren, Mr Otten, Mr De Vries, Mr Nicolaï and Mr Van Rooijen with the letter L.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u525	Janssen's motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u526	Excuse me. Yeah, it starts with Janssen. In my view, I must explain that at the moment there is a slight pending procedure for the extension, similar in the Lower House and the Upper Chamber. However, in that debate on the extension, you can have a full debate on the extension, with the full instruments available to the Chamber. The heavier veil means that the Chamber could also possibly block the extension. The cabinet's really out of line. At the same time, the debate can, of course, also take place if there is a slight veil. I would advise against this motion by referring to the argument that has just been expressed in this debate and also in previous deadlines. I think it would be a good idea to resume this discussion, which is not entirely settled after these motions and after the debate. Then perhaps it is not so much Mr Recourt's suggestion but Mr Dittrich's suggestion to re-examine the extension of the debate on whether the mere fact that ratification belongs only to the Lower House has prevented the First Chamber from fulfilling its controlling task. Let us re-examine that debate in the debate on the extension. That was Mr Dittrich's suggestion and I think it is a sensible suggestion to take over. To this end, the cabinet will give its own reflection in the intention to extend the law. Of course, we are waiting for the debate on the extension. Then I'm gonna go to some of the questions that haven't been answered. Mr Van Pareren has asked a few more questions. One was about the use of mouth caps. That is not sufficiently substantiated. What's the scientific evidence for that and who provides that evidence? I have actually already answered that, but we will need to further underpin that answer when we come to this arrangement. The requirement of proportionality requires that we support it well. I've already gone into ventilation. Then the vaccines that may become available as early as December. We always look closely at the forecasts that the suppliers themselves issue. But after a vaccine is ready, so comes from the third test phase, the authorisation will have to be organised. Admission also takes a while. It'll be done as soon as possible, but it'll take a while. That is why I honestly expect, also on the basis of vaccines such as those currently in the portfolio of the European Union, that we will not be able to apply them in terms of them before the first months of 2021. That would be awfully soon. That's the other side. From Van Hattem I had questions about Abu Dhabi and the Belgian laboratories. We are talking to Belgian laboratories. I assume this will lead to a real contractual agreement. I think they could deliver in November, but I also agreed, of course, with the Belgian cabinet that it should not be at the expense of the test capacity available to Belgium itself. So it must be possible, but I assume that they could make a serious contribution. Abu Dhabi has been validated and is therefore on the RIVM list. However, I have chosen not to make use of it, given the social unrest that has caused it and also because it is not very easy to organise data protection in a similar way. Nevertheless, it's just one of Unilabs' labs. Unilabs delivers to us, too. I have agreed with Unilabs that they will set up a large-scale high-volume laboratory in the Netherlands. I think that is also of added value. In addition, there are a lot of issues related to laboratory capacity. We're expanding them very considerably. I think I have answered the questions that have remained. D66 had asked what we're going to do about communication. There's still a world to be won. Other groups have also pointed this out, I think it is right. We are going to work on strengthening communication on all fronts, not only with regard to the inventiveness of information, because that is very important, but also with regard to the pro-activity with which we want to communicate. This is not just about this law and why this law is going to be applied, I do not know if people are so terribly interested in it, but rather about why measures are being taken. That is incredibly important at every stage of the fight against crisis. Then the SGP asks to respect and continue to respect conscientious objection of non-vaccinators. The answer is yes, we will certainly do so, hoping that as much of Dutch society as possible will be vaccinated. We will try very hard to do that by delivering that message with a lot of conviction, because it is simply necessary to be truly protected. The different future scenarios. I think this is in line with the call made by several political groups: give that perspective in particular. That's what we're trying to do as best we can. At the same time, you have to be honest about the fact that there is a lot of uncertainty. I think we should be honest about that. At the same time, there is a real perspective, not only in the longer term when it comes to vaccines, which we are working hard on, but which we also want to be as clear as possible about when it becomes available, but also about, for example, treatments and the possibilities offered by rapid testing. So we will inform you in all progress reports of developments in that perspective. We've just talked about communication. It's incredibly important. Then there are the questions of the Socialist Party. Has there been any thought about how that goes during recesses? As a cabinet, we just have our work to do. The measures we are taking must take the form of a ministerial arrangement. At that time, it is up to the Court to make use of the possibility of holding the debate on this subject and to allow that debate to result in a ratification decision or a non-validation decision, or rather to allow the measures to continue. It is actually up to the Chamber to put it into practice in a good way. Then the Mexican flu. The then cabinet had Berenschot evaluate the approach to the flu in 2009. Following the recommendations in the evaluation, adjustments have been made to the Wpg to facilitate the link between public health care and curative care in hospitals and occupational health care, including by increasing the scale of the GGDs to the current level of 25. Work has been carried out on interdepartmental preparation in the context of the national risk assessment, taking into account societal problems. The recommendations on the use of the OMT/BAO and the structure of the OMT/BAO, sufficient attention to non-medical aspects, societal consequences, continuity of the functioning of vital sectors and protection of people who have been exposed to specific risks through their work, and the pandemic plans have been adapted in response to the Mexican flu. Incidentally, I think there is much to say about the extent to which the Netherlands was prepared for a pandemic of this order. This will, of course, also be taken into account in the evaluation of the OVV. 50PLUS has asked a question about triage on non-medical grounds. That was also a question from Mr Nicolaï, and the Christian Union also spoke about it a moment ago. I think it is good to underline that what is now is a consultation of a document that will be seen by the inspection as a professional directive. That consultation is still taking place, so I think it is crazy to be including it from the cabinet at the moment. I think Mr Verkerk is right to say: make sure you get on at the right time. Only, when we had this discussion, the ic-figures were rather sky-high and at that time this was a real concern from the ic-doctors and also from society. What should we do if we come to the point where the number of beds is simply inadequate? Then, as a cabinet, we said: if you really have done everything you can to scale up and you simply cannot keep the number of beds available for the patients who need it, you will eventually come to that triage that you want to avoid at all costs. So at that point, can we just talk about age? Our answer to that has actually been from the beginning: no. I said that myself, as Van Rijn said at the time. Even now we say: let this consultation take place, because the process that is going on is just a good and careful process. So let this consultation take place now. At the time when the scheme is offered, which is then the final version from the profession, I think it is indeed up to the politicians to say something, namely that part of the directive where there are non-medical grounds. So triage on non-medical grounds. What can you say about that? This could be legislation that explicates the principle of non-discrimination, not just triage based on age. Can't age play a role at all? Yes, of course, age plays a role in medical triage every day, but then in the form of expected life years. Of course, the prospect of the future will be taken with you. In addition, age simply plays a role. Age is always a part of triage on medical grounds. Where non-medical grounds would be merely age, the cabinet is urged to explain the passage of the principle of non-discrimination, possibly by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u527	In addition to what the directive will mean, the Minister also points out that, when it comes to the non-medical aspect, namely scarcity, the law does not provide that age alone can become a criterion. I still have to hear from the Minister that it's by law, because he's leaving it in the middle a little bit now, but I'm assuming it's by law. I would ask him to repeat the promise that it will only be done by law and that it will not be included in that law. Moreover, that is a second request.......................................................................................................................................................... There's a gradation in that. You have in tax legislation entirely, almost entirely or predominantly. We must make it clear here that it is not just a criterion, but not just a criterion, otherwise there will be another grey area.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u528	I think there has been a misunderstanding between Mr Van Rooijen and me. A professional directive is currently being drawn up. The cabinet has always said that if it were to be stated in the Professional Directive that in the final stage, the stage in which there is a shortage of beds should be triaded by age, the legislator would be urged to say: we are not going to do so, because that is contrary to the principle of non-discrimination. It would then be entirely dependent on the wording "s' if it were to be necessary to come up with more detailed legislation and regulations in order to make that more explicit. I have always said that the cabinet will not hesitate to come forward with further legislation, if necessary, to prevent triage at an age. So we're not gonna make a law on triage. We are not going to make a law on triage until the professional directive appears to be in conflict with it. Only then will we make a law on triage. A next question is whether age can play a role in triage. Age very often plays a role in triage, even now and actually on the assembly line, only in a different form. So not in the form of a number, but for example in the form of life expectancy, the expected years of life. Then it is logical that age can also play a role in this. But let's go through the steps right now. I think that is Mr Verkerk's plea. The profession is extremely conscientious about a directive, which has been proposed for consultation by many parties. Everyone is really involved, including patient organisations. When that directive is completed, it will be offered to the IGJ. From that point on, it is a professional directive which the IGJ supervises. And from that moment on, we can assess whether or not it meets the need for a legal clarification of the principle of non-discrimination. We're really gonna judge that at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u529	Thank you for this clear explanation. But if that directive were to mean 'on non-medical grounds in the event of scarcity', can you promise that by law you will not adopt that directive on that point instead of saying: shall we look at it? Can you make that commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u530	Yeah, I really said that from the start. Triage at pure age is not what we're going to do, and if necessary, we're going to make it impossible by law. Just one step at a time. Now give the profession the room to come up with a good, well-supported directive. After that, it's up to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u531	Following on from the discussion with Mr Verkerk, can I assume that this directive will not come in the long term? Otherwise, that uncertainty will remain. That's my first question. Secondly, the Minister mentioned only age, but I continue to say that, if it is almost decisive in a detour, we have not actually achieved anything. For then it is not only age, but then it plays a dominant or almost exclusive role. That's more than a small difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u532	This was your third interruption, Mr. Van Rooijen, so I'm sorry. Finally, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u533	Age can play a role in the medical sense, i.e. in the form of life expectancy, for example, or survival. That form of triage is, of course, used very often. But let's just wait until they get there. If it's just about age, then the cabinet's up to it. That is what I have said, but that also applies when the directive has just been discussed with everyone in a normal way, in a good way, and has led to a real outcome, step by step.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u534	How much longer do you think you'll need, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u535	I think I need another minute or two and a half. I think I need to talk about the entry into force. That was a question from Mrs De Boer. I said 1 December, possibly on 1 December, but possibly earlier. That really requires a number of steps that we have yet to take. We are currently working out the first arrangement. He's gonna have to consult for another week. So that's all just taking a little time, but we're really trying to do it as fast as we can. So I say December 1st, or as much sooner as possible, and preferably a little sooner, if that works. Then Mr Nicolaï. I think we've already talked about that black scenario. Suppose at some point it has been demonstrated that ventilation is effective, is that a basis for changing rules? Article 58j provides that ministerial regulations may make rules on hygiene measures mandatory, including an obligation to use them. The letter of amendment has been clarified. This includes measures relating to the establishment of space or articles or materials to be used there, or the provision of cleanliness devices to prevent contamination with or transmission of the virus as far as possible. This provision therefore provides a sufficient basis for any rules on ventilation. By the way, there are, of course, many rules on ventilation, which are simply contained in the Building Decision. It's important to stick to the Building Decision. I have already referred to Mr Recourt's suggestion, and we are simply going to talk about this in the extension decision. Because I suspect that you might invite the Cabinet to a debate on this. It's possible. That's what my pitiful political feeling says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u536	We're two and a half minutes away now, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u537	Yeah, but if I say "I'm gonna quit," I'm gonna have another fight with this one and that one. I shouldn't want to, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u538	I didn't say that. I've already got Mr. Nicolaï on the line.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u539	Yeah, I've had them. So I'm done answering.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u540	I expected to hear a response from the Minister to my comment that Article 55 of the law he had put forward does not constitute a basis for a breeding ban for mink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u541	Yes, but I sent you another note. That note said that although the Wpg does not provide a basis for a breeding ban, it does provide a basis for action; see Article 47 of the Wpg. The Health and Welfare Act does provide the basis for a breeding ban in Article 17. So it's not Article 55, it's Article 17. I apologize for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u542	I had two small practical questions. One was the question about privacy regulations in contact research by an institution. And two. The Wpg mandatory isolation; does the chairman of the security risks possibly want to take his role in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u543	Did you say the chairman of the security risks? We call them the security regions, but yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u544	Those are others.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u545	I'm definitely gonna point them out. I am already working on this, because we ourselves think that this possibility within the current Wpg is a little too cumbersome for that. So I'd rather have an administrative opportunity to impose a quarantine obligation. But we are happy to work on this with regard to the GDPR. As far as I am concerned, there is really no obstacle there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u546	Let me get this straight. I asked a question about Article 58c (3) on a measure which is voted down as a matter of urgency and any liability. When I asked the question in the second term, the Minister of No shook. But that does not appear in the Acts, so I would like to explain it orally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u547	It was a clear answer, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u548	I know it was in my set. I'm just gonna get it out of my head. No, at the moment when the cabinet considers that measures are necessary and put them into an arrangement, those measures are simply taken. Of course, we do all kinds of things to compensate for sectors, but that's different from claims, damages and so on. If the Court did not then confirm this and there were apparently costs incurred, then this does not really change this fact. So, indeed, in this fight against crisis, before we take action, we must weigh up the damage we do with it. Then we need to look at how we can help sectors through winter as best we can. We do, but at that point there is no question of liability.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u549	Does the rule then enter into force or not, because it automatically lapses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u550	It lapses automatically, but that adds nothing or does not alter the question of liability.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u551	I would like to thank the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u552	Mr President, thank you. For me, there is only one question left. Mrs De Boer pointed out the necessity. Mr Nicolaï also mentioned this. I'd like to continue with that. I also replied to that in my first term, but since both Members came back to it in the second term, I would like to repeat it. It is true that the law states that you must meet the requirement of necessity. Both the law and the detailed arrangements based on it, including the ministerial arrangements, require the application of powers to meet the criterion of necessity. The need must therefore also relate to the concrete measure. It is exactly as Mr Nicolaï said. It's also in article 58b of this law. So if we move from an urgent opinion to a duty to wear a mask, then it must meet the criterion of necessity and therefore also the criterion of effectiveness. But that's not quite the same as saying that there should always be a 100% boarded-up scientific evidence for introducing such a duty. The point is that you can provide reasonable and sufficient grounds. Case-law of the European Court of Human Rights also points out this. So it is nice if there is scientific evidence, but this is not necessarily necessary for the need. You can also argue other grounds and arguments for taking such a measure. For example, you can think that a measure is necessary because it contributes to achieving a goal. So you have to be able to make reasonable arguments. There have actually been no further questions on the issue of disinformation, but I would like to add to what Mr De Jonge just said about communication. When it comes to COVID-19, communication just happens from VWS. It's a bit the pendant of tackling the disinformation about COVID-19. In my first term, I pointed out that BZK, together with the VNG, is working very actively to provide information to the other authorities, in particular to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u553	Actually, the same thing is happening now as in the previous term. The Minister says at the beginning that it is true that the need must be established, including for the measure in question. Next, she says: besides that things can contribute to something and that this requires a necessary approach. I have mentioned as an example that it is currently forbidden to walk in certain places with musical instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u554	Mr. Nicolaï, now you're repeating yourself. What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u555	I ask the Minister to go into that example and explain how this relates to the requirement of necessity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u556	I'd like to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u557	My example was not about the musical instruments. My example was about the mouth caps, because they were also asked about them. Nor was my view that other measures could not be taken. My argument is that you have to prove the necessity, but that should not be confused with a scientific evidence that is 100% watertight. A measure contributing to the achievement of an objective may be necessary. That's the basis you need to give. If we come up with ministerial arrangements through this law, that is the basis for that. Since we have already announced it for the mouth cap, that seems to me to be a relevant example. For example, if we were to convert the current measures currently in force into a ministerial regime, that would also apply to that justification.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u558	Maybe a little more focus on how it should contribute to a goal. To what extent does it define an objective? I have mentioned the statements made by the Presidents of two security regions. They say: it must contribute to awareness and a symbol value. Can such a symbol value or awareness in this context be an objective to which it contributes? Or should it really be a medically effective goal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u559	I would regard that as an indirect objective. The goal in itself, which we are talking about now, is always to prevent the spread of the virus. That's the goal. We say that wearing a mouth cap helps to prevent the spread of the virus. For example, a mayor or a chairman of a security region may have argued that it may also have an impact on awareness. People are therefore more aware and do not forget that we live in a corona time, in which we have to observe all kinds of rules. Well, that could be a sideline. Of course, there is nothing against that. When you see people with a mouth cap, you are indeed reminded that we live in a corona time. But the reason for making a compulsory or, indeed, an urgent opinion is, of course, that it should help to prevent the spread of the virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u560	The Minister now makes it a sideline. It has just been said that it is not a medical necessity, but that it is purely about that awareness. Then a non-medical effect has been set for purpose. How does this relate to real medical effectiveness, when a measure is taken and in particular a measure restricting our fundamental rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u561	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u562	The medical objective is not to spread the virus. This is what you are committed to. They vary from washing hands and keeping the distance to indeed wearing a mouth cap. They can all contribute to preventing the spread. The effectiveness of the measure you are putting in place always contributes to preventing the spread. That's the end in itself. That has to do with health. Mr Van Hattem is quite right about that. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mr Meijer's question about the scale-up and the local versus regional level. As I said, we are now, of course, talking about national measures in the second wave. Maybe it's a situation we're not thinking about in the current context. In a context with very low contagion rates and also in control with regard to the other parameters, one can imagine very well that targeted measures are being taken per area, because in the vast majority of the country there are no restrictions at all, at least not the restrictions we are dealing with now. In such a situation, it is of course extremely useful to scale up as locally as possible if there is an outbreak. There is therefore a possibility of differentiation within municipalities and between municipalities, in relation to the public bodies, Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba. That there can be a distinction between municipalities means that you can also differentiate by security region. That was the question Mr Meijer asked. He said: it will be the security region more often. That can be very good, but it can also be so under control that even within a security region you only want to be able to take a few measures with a single municipality. Finally, for Mr Van Hattem, I have looked at the routes. The Road Traffic Act was adopted in 1994 and regulates the various motives that can underpin traffic rules, such as road safety. This article of law, with the Roman VI, explicitly regulates that traffic rules can be laid down to combat COVID-19. It can therefore be about closing roads, setting up one-way streets or giving space to pedestrians and cyclists over motorised traffic. So that's the way it is. If he has any more questions about road traffic legislation, I refer him to my colleague from IenW.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u563	Thank you, Minister. Finally, I shall give the floor to the Minister for Justice and Security, but only after the sitting has been cleaned. Welcome back to the First Chamber, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u564	Mr President, thank you. I fear that cleaning may have taken more time than the two small answers I have yet to give. These answers relate to both questions raised by Mrs De Boer. One was not entirely asking, but it was a lack of clarity that asked for an answer. That's about "it's possible" and "it has to." It has been a bit more detailed in the House of Representatives, but I have indicated here that in specific cases of corona-related criminal acts such as compliance with the 1.5 metres, group formation, meetings and hygiene rules, the starting point is in principle that people are first addressed. If it turns out that they are persevering, then a fine will only be imposed. About crimes that are already generally social... just also criminal... you think of threats, spitting in the face, and such a thing, on the other hand, we don't have to ask ourselves whether we should warn anyone. Mrs De Boer's other question concerned a message from the NIS this evening. It was more like a report on those illegal parties. It is not the case that the police there say: we cannot maintain those parties, because we have no capacity. On the contrary, the police do maintain these parties, but do not always pay fines. There are a number of reasons for this. One. I don't know where it was anymore, but the police arrived there expecting it to be a much smaller company. There were only four of them, while it turned out to be a very big mob. Then it doesn't make much sense, because it's not gonna work to fine all those people. Two. Sometimes it is said in terms of security that we should not all be here, but we should fine the organizer, the DJ and such people. So that's the safety thing. That is what happens when, for example, there are many people in an overt situation, even though you have come with more policemen. But what also plays is what Mr. Willem Woelders of the police points out in that article. Sometimes there can be a risk of corona contamination if you have around 150 or 200 people together illegally and let them stay together. But the police pay a lot. Over the past two weeks, that's been added up to about 1,000. The boas are also very active, because they are really working hard on enforcement and we will have to keep doing that with each other in the coming months. Of course, we have to focus our own behavior on that, but if people don't, we will have to address them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u565	I still have a few unanswered questions. I'll just put them to the Minister of Justice and Security, if that's possible. There is still an unanswered question about the effects of the rules for group formation on a bootcamp activity when this happens here at the Binnenhof. How do we deal with the rules for groups and the requirement that only four men are allowed to stand together? And then there is the question of the perspective for the carnival operators. I would also like to have some reflection from the cabinet. What perspective is offered to them, now that the fairgrounds are still closed and the amusement parks, a similar activity, are allowed to be open? For the rest, I had asked a number of more rhetorical questions, but there was some discussion about this during the course of the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u566	There's a group ban on four people. That means that it will be maintained. Meanwhile, there is the Public Events Act, which indicates that it is natural to demonstrate. The demonstration must be reported and the 1.5 meter should be maintained. There is no problem in itself. But in principle, groups of more than four are maintained. As you know, there will always be a consideration of how much public order is served by certain forms of enforcement at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u567	For the sake of clarity, I do not think this is a meeting within the meaning of the Public Events Act, but a sports activity, a boot camp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u568	Oh, a boot camp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u569	Yeah, that's what it was about. That's something I wouldn't do so soon. But people are busy in the healthy outdoors. I read that it would be okay if they had different groups of four, but elsewhere the answer is: only groups of four. Are and remain such things for the healthy sports experience, so to speak, just possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u570	For the healthy sports experience it remains possible to do it with maximum groups. But in principle, the group of four applies in the outdoor space.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u571	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem. Or are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u572	Let me ask the question about carnival operators.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u573	We're both not boat campers ourselves. Maybe that's why we're bumping into both question and answer. Then the fairgrounds. I have just received the answer from the assistant coach of the Dutch carnival operators. What are the possibilities for carnival operators? They are subject to the same rules as other event organizers. A carnival is an event. This means that fairs are currently closed, because all events are prohibited. I brought it very naturally, I hear from Minister De Jonge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u574	I've considered asking, but I've asked twice a question that hasn't been answered yet, so I'll do it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u575	Imagine him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u576	Perhaps Mr. De Jonge in his folder also has the answer to the questions about the sex workers. More generally, the question was: is the development of measures and their monitoring and monitoring also taking into account the impact on socio-economic vulnerable? So I am talking about the consequences of the measures. As an example, I mentioned the sex workers, who were excluded from the previous regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u577	I would almost say in a simpler Latin than Mr Otten's magnificent Latin: o fatum. It's now 12:20, it's thundering outside, it's gonna lightning and I'm gonna answer a question about sex workers. That's some kind of magical trinity. It is true that attention is paid to the socio-economically vulnerable groups. This is also taken into account in the whole process that ultimately leads to measures, what they should look like and what they should be like. Last summer, a lot of attention was paid to the situation of sex workers, because they do not automatically fit into the general systems. In the spring I myself with mayor Aboutaleb Rotterdam had looked at a special project there for the purpose of getting more behind the front door of the sex workers, just at these kinds of points. In fact, Mrs De Boer is right about people who are really in the most vulnerable groups in a situation like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u578	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u579	I'm coming to the end of the treatment. A roll-call vote has been requested on the legislative proposal. It will take place this afternoon, after lunch. It's no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u580	Do you have any sleeping accommodations?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u581	Your term had already ended, Minister. I also propose that we vote this afternoon on the motions that have been tabled. Is it true that Mr Otten wishes to have a roll-call vote on his amended motion on the guarantee of the role of the First Chamber (35526, letter M) prior to the vote on the legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u582	Mr President, that is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-6.u583	Thank you. That was for the Acts. Can the Chamber agree to that order? That's the case. We now come to the end of this sitting. I'll suspend the meeting and wish you all at home.
