ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u1	I will now go to Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66, who asks questions about his unanswered written questions about raising €0.25 per flight ticket for a guarantee fund. The question is addressed to the Minister for Economic Affairs, whom I would like to welcome. He replaces the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, these questions should never have come to Question Time. They were filed in November, following the bankruptcy of Thomas Cook. On 12 December, a letter was issued announcing that the answer would be given as soon as possible. Since then, an airline has gone bankrupt. The answers just arrived, 15 minutes before Question Time. The first question I would like to ask the cabinet is: what has the cabinet learned from this? However, there is an additional reason to talk about this today, because the corona virus is hitting the aviation industry hard. Last week, the impact of corona was the last push for Flybe, a company with a major operation at Schiphol Airport. Who would fly with Flybe as part of a package trip, does not have to worry. He can get money back from the guarantee fund. For those who book a separate ticket or visit a booking website, the exact opposite is true: money gone. Whoever was already traveling had to arrange and pay to come back. More and more people arrange their travel themselves, via websites, and less and less protected package tours are purchased. Then the duped must buy a new ticket to get home, like Jacomien Pot, who told the Dagblad van het Noorden: "I bought €300 tickets to fly to London with my 13-year-old son Lars in May. I assume I've lost my money." Demand is particularly relevant now that the aviation sector is struggling. In the last three years there have been 16 bankruptcies in Europe, and now there is the corona virus, which is reportedly causing several airlines to fall over. For this reason, for example, the ANWB and the Consumers' Association say, "Just pull it together; bring all those tickets under the guarantee fund with a quarter per flight ticket, and all travellers will have the same rights.' Denmark is doing the same. Mr. Chairman. I have three questions for the Minister. One, do you think it is logical that package travel is protected, but that the consumer has no rights in the case of air travel? Given the situation caused by the coronavirus, can the Minister analyse the impact of the air transport situation on consumers and see if any Dutch people have been in trouble due to Flybe's bankruptcy? And three, is he prepared to look with European colleagues to see whether it is not desirable to extend European consumer protection as set out in the directive, not only for package travel but also for individual tickets?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is unfortunate that the questions could not be answered until recently. The statement is that an investigation by the European Commission into passenger rights and the insolvency of airlines has been awaited. In addition, contact was needed with the initiators of the proposal. They sent a substantive proposal in January. And it did take up to half an hour ago to get the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u5	And we're in March now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u6	Yeah, that's right. Sure. It would have been desirable to do it faster, but I cannot judge whether it would have been possible to do it faster. But at least it is something that the cabinet must continue to strive for. At least that's the lesson here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u7	And if you don't, you'll be standing right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u8	I'm doing the same thing with love. There is no greater pleasure than answering questions from this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Do I think it makes sense? The logic is next. There is a difference in coverage per type of consumer. With a package travel the insurance is in the price, in the package. In case of a separate ticket, the consumer decides whether to take out an insurance policy. But in both cases it is insurable. In doing so, the buyer of the separate ticket actually organises his own guarantee fund, by taking out insurance for it. That's what all kinds of people do. That is why my colleague from IenW sees no reason to impose this from above. It is up to consumers themselves to make that assessment. You can make that assessment, too. It is facilitated by the market. That is why my colleague does not see any reason to discuss this with EU colleagues. After all, if you don't think you need something yourself, you won't lobby your colleagues if they want to join in. In my view, it is a sensible suggestion from Mr Paternotte to see what this can mean in relation to the coronavirus. On behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would like to make a commitment to this effect. I'll say this is a completely different matter. First of all, of course, it is not about organisations that are bankrupt, but about flights that do not go on. I think it is quite possible for the Minister of IenW to make this Chamber understand what is going on and how it relates to the interests of consumers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you. It is good that there will be an analysis of the impact of the current situation on consumers. As far as I am concerned, it is not just flights that do not continue because of the corona virus, because there are rules for that of course. There is a duty of care, including for airlines. On the contrary, it is also about companies which go bankrupt and then no longer have any duty of care. What happens in such cases? That's what's happening at Flybe's. It could also happen to other companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u10	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u11	Because many European companies are said to be falling over. In the answers to the written questions that came 15 minutes before Question Time, the Minister mentioned that people can assure themselves. That's what you're calling it now. But a lot of websites and companies don't actively offer that at all. For example, KLM and Transavia do not do this on their website. How are you supposed to know that as a consumer? Yes, you can search for any insurance anywhere, but is it reasonable to say "it's all arranged for you" when on separate airline tickets on travel websites, which are very similar, it's said "you have to figure it out all by yourself"? In addition, you probably know that that kind of insurance is often extremely expensive compared to the ticket people buy themselves, which means that hardly anyone uses it. The answers also mentioned that you can pay with a credit card and that you are better protected, but most Dutch people do not have a credit card. So I would like to ask whether the Minister recognizes that there is a gap in the protection of these consumers. And then about the answer to the questions themselves. It is good that in January there was another study by the European Commission. I didn't see it in the answers. Can we at least agree that it will be reported if there is a reason to answer questions later? I usually read that interdepartmental coordination is still needed. Now we didn't read anything. It seems to me that the Chamber can at least hear why there is no answer. Can the Minister promise that he will do his best for this, but also that it will simply not happen again in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u12	The first one is, the second one isn't. I cannot, of course, promise that it will never happen again, but I think it is an extremely good course of action that Mr Paternotte is proposing here. It seems to me to be a good thing, and I will also pass that on to my colleague. He's now saying, "No one does that, people have to figure it out all by themselves," and is that reasonable? I would like to put it this way. The question of return is, of course, whether the liberal Paternotte considers it reasonable for the government to decide that a person is now subject to compulsory insurance and therefore pays for it instead of having freedom of choice. The question that Mr Paternotte then asks is: is it really accessible; are you being properly informed about it? I propose that my colleague from IenW take these points into account in the evaluation I have just promised. Then there are questions like: is it true that consumers find that difficult? Is it true that hardly anyone does that? And if so, what could be done about it? So that's a commitment I'm linking to the previous commitments. This will appear in one letter, hopefully for the AO Aviation on 26 March, which Mr Paternotte can discuss again with my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u13	Minister Wiebes is a great advocate of logic. So I'd still like to ask one more question. If you book a package trip, a guarantee fund is required by law, so you are not at risk, but if you book a separate flight ticket or a combination with a rental car via the same website, there is no guarantee. Does he think that makes any sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u14	A loose ticket is something other than a package trip. Does Mr Paternotte think it is logical to deny consumers a choice, purely and simply to make something equal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u15	When it comes to a quarter to ensure that people do not run the risk of beaching on the other side of the world, it seems to me to be a very sensible measure to ensure that it is completely clear to the consumer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u16	Then I think it would be useful to discuss this on 26 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u17	It would be nice if the Minister were there, but I do not think that will be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u18	Well, he just said he liked coming to the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u19	The Minister was invited to general consultations on aviation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u20	I'm very honored.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u21	Okay, thank you. This brings us to the end of this Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments. Then we'll vote.
