ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on tackling threats and stalking. I warmly welcome the Minister for Justice and Security and the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport, including the people in the public gallery and the people who are following this debate in a different way. I give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA as the first speaker. Speaking time is four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. When you're 16, you're supposed to catch a movie theater, then you should go to school, perhaps with fresh reluctance, but at least lead a fairly carefree life. Then you shouldn't be living in a nightmare, like Hümeyra did, because you're constantly afraid because you're threatened and because you're being stalked. We all know how horrible things have turned out for her. I can hardly imagine what it must be like for the next of kin, her parents, that Hümeyra is gone. I sympathize greatly with them, especially since you see that in the circumstances that led to her death, so much has gone wrong. We also know that it has gone horribly wrong for many other women: Linda van der Giesen in 2015, Laura Korsman in 2018, a student who was also stalked and murdered by her ex. We also know that a lot of women are still living in the same fate: Mila, who today is doing her story in public, but also lives in terror every day. There are also women who have knocked on the door and have repeatedly reported to the police. After every horrible incident, we are promised better health and yet we see it go horribly wrong every time. Mr. Chairman. There is no guarantee of 100%, but if victims are not constantly given the help they need, if authorities work alongside each other, if the case is not taken seriously enough or if perpetrators get away with continuously non-compliance with contact bans, then that is inexcusable and we really have a very big job with each other. That is why my party would like to have achieved the following things in the short term. The first is: protect victims and take on offenders. That seems so simple and yet it turns out to be very reckless, because we see that a restraining order can be violated after a restraining order. We can see that unsubs don't get caught right away. We see that all kinds of rules can be broken and that even if they are arrested, they are very soon again with a single outside, often without an ankle bracelet. I find that unacceptable. I would therefore like the prosecution to proceed with a provisional execution of a sentence. Then we'll see if that was legal, but at least we'll know that victims are safe at the time. I also want an anklet to be used more often than it is now. I would like to ask the Minister why there are doubts about this at this point. Then a second request: is it possible to give victims of stalking cases the right to request protection from the mayor in the event of a serious danger? It can then itself assess whether there is an acute hazard and whether adequate protection measures have been taken or need to be supplemented. After all, is he or she also directly accessible? Pressure is being experimented with alarm buttons. In some regions they are fully applied, but not in many regions either. Why isn't that standard? Have we arranged the follow-up, the follow-up on the alarm button? I also want one person to always be responsible. The cabinet is talking about a case manager. Will that person have sufficient time and resources? Does he or she know the dangers sufficiently? Does he or she actually have the power of perseverance to take those measures that are needed? Finally, the penalty. Hümeyra's killer only got 14 years in prison because the judge couldn't be held to be premeditated. The judge found that very intricate, the prosecution found that very intricate, and we do not consider that to be legitimate and fair and inexplicable. That is why I would like to call for an increase in the penalty rate for manslaughter to 25 years. Mr President, I have to conclude, unfortunately, in view of the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u4	Humeyra was 16, and then you should be busy with the fun things in life. But she had to be scared, terrified. She was stalked by her ex, a dangerous man. It got worse and worse. Her life was ruined. The stalking took her life and eventually the stalker took her life. Our thoughts also go out to the next of kin. Today we are debating a manslaughter that should have been prevented. The government hasn't provided any protection, despite her cry for help and multiple reports. The inspection report reads like a horrible thriller of which you already know the sad outcome. With rising indignation and anger you read that there is always no intervention. Humeyra isn't taken seriously at all. She's always not protected. 28 times Humeyra begged the police for help. And every time she had to explain again what was going on. More than 50 people have been working this case with the police alone. You shouldn't think about how she must have felt. The inspection is devastating about the role of the authorities concerned. She was harassed for months. She made numerous reports about this, but there was still insufficient attention to her protection. Organizations worked side by side. Information was barely shared. No one took control. What does all this do with trust in police and justice? All kinds of people are responsible for a little bit. Everyone's doing their thing. Anyone can set a check mark and move the case to another one. So many professionals are involved, but no one is really responsible. Isn't this a broader problem? We've discussed this before. That is the pressing question to the Minister. What is the deeper analysis of this? Do the professionals have enough room to act, to do what is necessary and to assume their responsibility? The system has failed in this case, with catastrophic consequences. But the worst part is, this isn't the first time. I, too, refer to the case of Linda van der Giesen four years ago, of 2015. She was also killed by her stalking ex. She too did not pay sufficient attention to her safety and protection, and then there was a promise of improvement and a plan of action. But, Minister, we're reading about the same promises that have been made before, aren't we? Then why would it work now? What is the point of plans of action and improvement programmes if they are apparently not used? So what really makes the difference? In addition, I'd like to know from the Minister how he's going to make sure the police react faster. The police are understaffed on all sides. We also literally read it in the report we're discussing today, on page 35: one day before the murder, Humeyra is terrified of escalation, but the police have no capacity to take it down at that time. I would also like to receive a substantive response from the Minister. How is it that a 16-year-old girl and her friends and family couldn't count on the government when they needed it the most? As far as I am concerned, the Minister's improvements are not only not fast enough, but I do not think they are sufficient either. I'm really worried about you. I hear from practice, for example, from victims but also from lawyers, Peter Schouten, for example, that things are still going wrong on a daily basis. Still, not everything is focused on protection. I just don't get it. Shouldn't we start choosing the victim's interests rather radically? Shouldn't we be stricter for the attackers? 'Cause no, isn't it just plain clear, no? "I don't want any more contact. Point." If someone doesn't want contact, we should be able to organise and maintain it legally. It can't be that hard, can it? But apparently that is the case in practice. The SP chooses to protect the victims. In November, I already presented seven points to Minister Dekker in a general consultation to protect victims. I haven't had a substantive response from the cabinet yet. I find that disappointing, but okay. I suggested, for example, that victims should be given proof of a restraining order and that this should also be recorded. In addition, there should be quicker consequences for breaches of restraining measures. Today, I would like to add the possibility of imposing bans on contact earlier, for example by the Deputy Prosecutor of the State at the time of the declaration. This will make it possible to intervene more quickly when it is necessary to protect the victims. Reaction time matters when victims are in danger. In short, how are we going to ensure that victims of stalking will be able to count on the protection of the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u5	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate is extremely sad. On 18 December 2018, after a long period of stalking and threat by Bekir E., Hümeyra was deprived of her life at her school. A huge blow to her family, friends and neighbors. My thoughts also go out to them today in the first place. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, Hümeyra is not the only victim of stalking. Every year thousands of reports are made to the police and sometimes unfortunately, as with Hümeyra, with fatal outcome. Lives can therefore literally be saved when authorities such as the police, the Public Prosecutor, Victim Support and the Reclassification are better able to deal with them, but unfortunately that often does not go well. Mr. Chairman. The government is supposed to ensure that people can live in safety and freedom, which is the core task, but the Justice and Security Inspectorate report is crystal clear: the government has failed in this task. When I read the report, unfortunately, I can only come to the same conclusion. The central question, then, is: how could this have gone so wrong? Because the poignant thing is that these problems are certainly not new. An example. The inspection concludes that there was too little regard for Hümeyra's safety despite the fact that she had repeatedly indicated that she felt very unsafe. That was exactly the mistake that was made with Mrs Van der Giesen's fatal stalking in 2015. Another example. Police, D.A., Safe Home, Victim Support and Reclassification are all involved in this case, but the communication between them is minimal so crucial information was missed. That was already apparent in Mrs van der Giesen's case. That is why my question to the Minister of Justice is: how can it be that, after the murder of Mrs van der Giesen almost five years ago, extensive research has been done by the Unicorn Commission, there are development agendas and action programmes have been drawn up but that exactly the same things go wrong? I'm worried about that. Do implementation organisations learn from their mistakes sufficiently and sufficiently quickly? How do we ensure that things actually change in practice? Mr. Chairman. Of course, I have read the Cabinet's letter containing the measures. From training for the police to better recognize stalking to faster sanctioning of the violation of conditions. That all sounds very logical in itself, but I do have a supplementary question on that. Can the Minister explain whether a so-called "stop call" is now a standard part of this approach? Research shows that it is important to intervene at an early stage in stalking, and such a call seems to work very well. The practice shows that more than half of the stalkers actually stop after such a call. I'd like a response from the Minister of Justice. Mr. Chairman. In the inspection report, I also read a few times that there was a shortage of capacity in the investigation, including two days before the murder of Hümeyra. To what extent is capacity shortage now also a problem in this case. Do the police have enough people to handle this kind of thing properly? Finally, Mr President. I am pleased that the Minister is taking stalking seriously, and I hope that he will closely monitor the implementation of these measures, because I think that is what this is all about. I really think we can do better. The relevant bodies should simply follow the recommendations of the report. However, I also read that the bodies concerned should report to the inspection that follow up on these recommendations themselves. I wonder if that is the right way to check whether it actually works in practice. That's a bit of the butcher who approves his own meat. Wouldn't it be better if two years after Hümeyra's terrible case, the inspection itself were to investigate whether things were going better in practice and whether they were actually being implemented? In my view, then, we can better keep a grip on the practice and make sure that something really changes in practice. I'd like a response from the Minister of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u7	Thank you, Mr. Groothuizen. I now give the floor to Mr Markuszower on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by expressing my condolences to the family of Hümeyra. What sadness that such a young girl was killed by Bekir E., but also by completely dysfunctional of our rule of law. If we refuse to recognise again here today what the real problems are and who made the real mistakes, nothing will change. Then innocent victims will continue to be murdered by bloodthirsty murderers who should have been in prison for life. Let us discuss the main problems, which, of course, are not even included in the inspection report on this matter. Bekir E. is a Turkish beast, who killed an innocent girl and who of course should never have lived in the Netherlands. Bekir E. has been known to the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the probation and the judges for at least 11 years. For at least 11 years, Bekir E. has been a serious criminal. If not the weak VVD or the hypocritical CDA had run the Ministry of Justice and Security, but we, the PVV, had already taken away that Bekir E.'s Dutch nationality and flew out of the Netherlands long ago. Unfortunately, however, all those weak parties in the Chamber are not allowed to do so. So Bekir E. has been able to commit the most violent crimes in the last 11 years and get away with a few weak suspended sentences. He should have been in jail, but Minister Grapperhaus allowed him to walk freely in the Netherlands. As a result, this 32-year-old pedophile was able to seduce a young girl and then threaten her and her family for months, abuse her, hold her hostage, stalk her and terrorize her. A young girl. No one in the Ministry of Minister Grapperhaus wanted to help her. The police trivialized her reports and looked away. The police of Rotterdam, the police of Ferd Grapperhaus and Ahmed Aboutaleb, abandoned this girl and this family. The parole hearing, which is supposed to supervise convicted criminals, didn't do anything. They should have supervised, but they did the opposite. As far as I'm concerned, doing nothing is a serious offense in this case. The D.A. constantly demanded awfully low or no penalties and didn't want to prosecute, even though they had to. They also showed no genuine interest and empathy in the fate of Hümeyra and the previous victims of Bekir E. The prosecutors who have been free throughout the years of the very violent Bekir E. have to be ashamed of themselves for the rest of their lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u9	Mr Markuszower spoke very loudly about the police and the probation. He's accusing them of a criminal offense here. He also believes that the police have failed seriously. What sanction would he like to impose on the police and parole officers involved? 'Cause it's quite a pronunciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u10	For quite some time now, I have been calling in this Chamber to fire all the people responsible for looking away, for doing nothing. I think I will do the same in the second term. I will call on the Minister to relieve all those who work at the failing agencies and who have made a mistake there of their duties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u11	Yes. The PVV just argued: put us in the Ministry of Justice. But is this really the way the PVV wants to do that? By yelling here as a Member of Parliament that police officers and parole officers should be fired? I think we're only dealing with two people here, and they're sitting there, in box K. We are not going to call from the Chamber that agents, who do their best every day for the Netherlands, and probation workers, who sometimes work for themselves at risk, should be fired? That's not a careful way to deal with our security device, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u12	And the prosecutors and the judges! I would like to say a few things about this. One: if the PVV had conducted the ministry and if the Chamber had carried out the PVV-wish, then after serving its first sentence, after the conviction for its first criminal activities, Bekir E. might have had to surrender his nationality 13 years ago. He'd have been kicked out of the country. Then we would have had a Bekir E.-free society and Hümeyra could still live here today. Two. Mr. Van Wijngaarden, of course many agents are doing a great job and working day and night for our safety. But it concerns the officers who have looked away in this case, the parole officers who have looked away in this case, the prosecutors who were unable to condemn or did not wish to condemn Bekir E. in previous cases, to harass the judges who have constantly imposed low sentences or no punishment even before Bekir E. Hümeyra started to do so. If we do not relieve them of their duties, if we do not discharge them, then nothing will change the culture, the overall culture at that Ministry of Justice and all those underlying bodies. Then nothing changes and we stand here. If people fail, they must be fired. And if people do it right, they should be praised. The PVV is always the first to honor, praise and praise agents who stand firm for our safety. But if people fail, they shouldn't be praised, they should be fired. I'd be happy to address the Minister. I'll do that too, but he has to act. If the minister isn't acting, it has to be a motion. I hope you, Mr Van Wijngaarden of the VVD, will support that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u13	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u14	And then those horrible judges who time and again gave Bekir E. a shamefully low sentence and who should have just given him life, because it was a murder, but left that behind. Those judges didn't speak the law. If the Minister is serious, if he genuinely sympathizes with the Hümeyra family, if he genuinely wants to repair the rule of law, then this Minister must immediately dismiss the judges responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u15	Thank you. Mr Van Dam from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u16	Thank you, Mr President. It is always interesting to see how a case is used to send messages. I have to think about Saga Backman, Juliette Bouhof, Laura Korsman, Linda van der Giesen and now Hümeyra Ergincanli. We all know that there are a lot of other women and perhaps men in similar situations, but when you see this list, there is first of all compassion with the family, especially with the family of Hümeyra, but there is also shame. I just heard Mr Markuszower's input and I had to think about what I think of that. I myself have been a prosecutor for nineteen years, and in those nineteen years I have been regularly in situations where I or colleagues of mine have done their stinking best, but in which things have gone wrong. I don't want to say that in this case everyone has done their stinking best. I don't know, and I'll leave that to the Minister. I would ask him to let his light shine on the way in which the conversation with policemen and prosecutors came about. What is the learning curve of the people, of the professionals, who have also read this report? But if we go to a situation where we personally deal with people who we allow to do the hardest work in our society when things go wrong, I do not think I want to live in such a society. That's what I want to say here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u17	Mr Van Dam has just said that he has spent nineteen years trying his stinking hardest. I believe it immediately, but he also says that he does not know whether in this case the serving prosecutors have done their stinking best, and I am particularly talking about the period before Bekir E. Humeyra started stalking, threatening and mistreating; so before and during. But if you've read the report and the reports in the paper about it, can you conclude that some prosecutors in this case and around that Bekir E. haven't done their best at all? Then why can't Mr Van Dam say: yes, some prosecutors have done their best and some have looked away, were lazy, made wrong decisions and simply didn't do their best in this case? So as long as Mr. Van Dam doesn't want to say that, there can be no cultural change at that ministry. Then we'll keep coming back here and all those victims that Mr Van Dam just mentioned... In the future, new lists will be added.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u18	Mr. Chairman. What is happening here is that we leave what has happened to the people in the execution. You can, but it's not my line. I am as ashamed of what has happened here as I am of the people's representative. How can we all be unable to protect the people in the implementation, the ministers, the parliamentarians as a society? If we solve that question by playing a game here, I won't be part of it. I am standing here today asking the cabinet: how can this be? What happened here and what should change? And I think I should ask myself the same question. If I solve that by organizing some kind of skittish government, where, as soon as you make a mistake, we're primarily out to write you a letter of resignation, then as far as I'm concerned, we're doing the totally wrong move.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u19	Yes, but as long as you don't put that option on the table, we don't have the whole pallet of solutions in our arsenal. You refuse, Mr. Van Dam refuses to judge in this case prosecutors, or the probation or some police officers in this case. So as long as Mr Van Dam refuses to appoint those problems and those failing officials, we do not have the entire arsenal at our disposal to find a solution. You're taking a very big solution away from us and in the end nothing's gonna change.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u20	You may have doubts about this at the CDA lately, but I am talking about the functioning of ministers. That is what we are supposed to do here. I'm not here to conduct any operational talks with individual prosecutors in any county city.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u21	I have always appreciated Mr Van Dam and the way in which he always seeks the balance between his responsibility and the responsibility of others and that within the rules of the game we have, namely that we address the Minister here. But I think he's really failing himself as a representative of the people today. There's just an inspection report and it says that the agent didn't follow the developed instruments. That cop, who should've done that, didn't use the tool to fix this. You can find something about that, can't you, Mr. Van Dam?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u22	I like that too, just the point was just...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u23	What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u24	I find it deceptive what is in this inspection report and I find what has been delivered how shall I say it, ultimately, towards the result, a total, total failure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u25	Thank you for that!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u26	That is a different question from the question just asked by Mr Markuszower whether, let me say, I want to have working discussions with individual employees here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u27	No, I think you're a little short-sighted, too, Mr Markuszower. You started your story by saying that you didn't want to talk too much about what happened and that you didn't want to qualify, but you just did, and that's right. That is also what we are expected to do! After all, we have a... Well, I wanted to say "an independent Justice and Security Inspectorate," but I've had some doubts about that lately, given the input and also the involvement of some of the top officials. But there's just a report that says clip-and-clip that no action has been taken according to the instruments. It has been classified as honor-related violence instead of stalking. That doesn't protect this girl properly. And that needs to be put down hard, even here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u28	Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u29	Mr Van Dam is not responding now, but I think he might go into that further, because I thought it was a little too open. It is quite right not to start blaming individual officials here. I think it is also a good thing that that does not happen, because that is ultimately something that has to happen within the police, within the State's Attorney's office and within Safe Home and so on. However, the report does give a more detailed account of what the problems are. And indeed, one of the problems is that it was qualified as honor vengeance. Another problem was that restraining orders were not respected. I hope that Mr Van Dam will now be able to comment on such matters and subjects. How does he see that? And what does he want to do about it within his role as a member of the Lower House?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u30	Of course I will, because that is the essence of this debate. Thank you. I have heard things about this from several colleagues alone. So I agree with the appreciation that colleagues also give to the work done as set out in the inspection report. Let me give you an example. Following the Linda van der Giesen case, the risk instrument was introduced. My group has also insisted very strongly on this. It is remarkable to see that this instrument has not been used at all. It's really very, very disappointing. In that respect, I think I can agree with all the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u31	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u32	Still. New measures are now being added to combat this problem. And yet the question can be asked: is that going to save us? My picture of the authorities involved in this problem in Rotterdam is that these are not unprofessional tokos. That Health and Safety House was a precursor in the Netherlands when it comes to measures. And it's gonna go wrong, anyway. How is that possible? With that big question, I looked at this report. I note that we in the Netherlands are heroes in designing systems, measures and procedures. And then we think we've taken care of it. In practice, however, this is not possible for all kinds of reasons. I find it particularly painful that Hümeyra, as I read, was shivering in her room at home for two weeks, and that she fled to Turkey to seek security. Then I say: we lack sufficient instruments for the victim himself to draw the emergency bell, literally. Mrs. Kuik said something about that. I've been thinking: what would have happened if Rotterdam had a bell on the Coolsingel, an emergency bell? Maybe it's too plastic, but I've been thinking, there's an emergency brake on a train. You look forward to pulling that, but if things really go wrong in the system, the individual train traveller has the opportunity to intervene. I miss that in this whole system. I see the mayor playing a part in that. I have already announced this and I would like to hear a response to that. There lies a role for the mayor in the role of civilian father or mother, but also for the mayor who sits in the triangle at the table with police and OM. The mayor is also in the college, along with the care alderman and others. I think it's very important that the mayor gets a role. To him or her the citizen must be able to say: this is going completely wrong and I need protection. And every plan that works is fantastic to me, too. Mr President, I have a few other points to make. But I think I'm gonna stop, because there are spokesmen who want to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u33	I kind of lost it. Mr Van Dam always says: we must be careful and a little cautious in making instruments. And now he's pleading for a new instrument. Someone's called the bell 28 times. Not only did she, but her sisters also pulled the bell. Fifty police officers have been working on this. But no one took the final responsibility. They simply didn't use the instruments developed following Linda van der Giesen's death. So instead of coming up with something new, we can also say together: if someone reports to a police station 28 times, that's the emergency button! Period!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u34	The point is that both in the Linda van der Giesen case and in all the other matters I mentioned, the procedures were always fantastic and beautiful and that we added something to them, but people did not carry out the procedures. Mr. Azarkan, you say this was wrong. I have just said, in response to your first interruption, that this was indeed wrong. Only the question that arises here is: how do we prevent another situation? Then I tell you, as a whole, that this systemic approach of all these agencies, the police, the State's Attorney's Office, Safe Home, the probation, did not help us in this situation. Then what's your position as a victim, as a victim's family? Who else can you turn to? Hümeyra's father was on the other side of the school waiting to report her for the fourth time while she was shot in the bicycle shed. Then I think to myself: of course, very nice if you can report 28 times, but then you have to note that that system no longer works. That's why I'm looking for another option, another opportunity for victims to complain about their distress. I don't see that as a system solution at all. I see that as breaking out of the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u35	Doesn't that mean that if three counts are filed, that's enough? That someone would say, "Here's something going on?" Especially if the unsub was convicted of violence and threat to the victim as early as August 2018. So this is just the failure at an individual level of a cop. I agree with Mr. Markuszower when he asks if there are any consequences. So do we say "yes, this can happen" or do we say "here something has gone seriously wrong and we're going to organize it differently" in the sense that you're calling on people to comply with the agreements and the guidelines that are there? Otherwise, you can make every adjustment and then nothing happens when someone ignores it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u36	Yeah, but that's what we said to Linda van der Giesen. And that's what we said on previous cases. I note that this is not enough. I think it is quite understandable and right that people are being addressed and looked at within the organisations: hey, we agreed this and we did not. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. I just don't think we should discuss it here in a debate. I do think that the Minister can explain whether this is happening and to what extent it is happening. But I do not believe that the additional measures that are being proposed, and which are all fine in themselves, will prevent this from happening again. I think that is the commitment we are making to this debate. That's why I'm making this suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u37	I agree with you in the sense that the Minister has to answer for what has happened there. But it cannot be that you are on the sidelines on the one hand and on the other hand say that we should introduce something of an emergency button. People need to do the work on the situation and on the tools we have developed. If the minister can't justify that properly, maybe we should find another minister. If he says "I've made changes within my organization, because people deliberately didn't do it because they didn't take it seriously," then there should be sanctions. I'd like to hear that from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u38	Anything that effectively contributes to the protection of victims must be seriously considered. I'm not saying the current instruments are perfect. Major, serious mistakes have been made within the current instruments. I think we're all outraged about that today. I would add that we need to speed up the imposition of bans on contact and to maintain them more consistently. That is what we are debating with the Minister. But I also have serious doubts about shifting responsibility. Since 2015, Linda van der Giesen and the drama we are discussing, we see that the instruments are not working. But if you're gonna lay a responsibility somewhere else, with a mayor, you're actually gonna accept the failure of and not working together between the organizations that are there for that now? How does Mr Van Dam see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u39	I do not have the slightest ambition to take responsibility away from the organisations that are now responsible for the detection of criminal offences, the prosecution of criminal offences and the whole of pride. I note time and time again, with all the fine rules we have, that organisations do not do that, especially with each other in chains, what needs to be done. And I just refuse to take it on board to say here: well, we'll do some more action on top and then it'll be okay; and some people are still being addressed. I believe that the victims of this kind of fact are, to this day, seriously in the cold in the possibilities they have to get their attention to their problems. I am looking for someone who can intervene in a relevant way in the process of those organisations, who are unable to provide that security with each other. If you could explain to me who else than the mayor could play a part in that, I would be happy to look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u40	I just made my proposals. I think that we need to move faster towards the imposition of bans on contact. It would be good if Mr Van Dam supports this and that we should also maintain it much more consistently. You know all the proposals I made in the previous debate. They're all on paper. We have all shared and surrendered them. But if we are going to make the mayor co-responsibility for this, and in practice it is happening that lawyers are writing letters on behalf of victims and mayors; I have seen them myself; who is ultimately going to do that job? Who should eventually light the Bekirs E. of this world off their bed? Those are the cops, aren't they? After all, it's the parole workers who have to invite the perpetrators to a conversation, right? So it's still the same people who are overloaded and have to do this important work. I think we should look much more closely at improving the structures and actually doing what we have agreed rather than putting it away from the mayor. I think that is a bit of a way of organizing the system's failure as we have organized it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u41	Mr. Van Nispen uses the words: putting it away from the mayor. Nothing's gonna happen. The police remain responsible for the work of the police, and then you can name some organisations, but none of that remains. But your new proposals, which I find very interesting, also focus on the suspect, the one who did it. They do not focus on giving a voice more than now to the people sitting at home with a blanket over their head. I know that Victim Support Netherlands is given a prominent position in the Security House to express the voice of the victim, but I do not think that is enough. I think that victims should be able to go to a mayor's office, okay, not at the first wiper, and should be able to say, "I've been home for weeks. I have to run. There's a lot going on. I've already reported it three times. Do I have to do a fourth?" If I were mayor, I'd rather have that victim come to me in advance than face something terrible afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u42	One correction: in my proposal, the victim gets a voice, because at the moment when a victim comes forward with a well-founded story about belching, stalking, destruction, abuse and so on, they must be heard immediately. You just give the victim a voice if the police can impose a restraining order on a well-founded report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u43	It is true that a victim not only has a voice but is also protected. There's now a report filed after the police report. It doesn't happen much. Bans of contact are being broken. It doesn't happen much with that either. That is, of course, the problem that needs to be solved. I understand very well that you're doing your best and saying, "Maybe we'll find it in a mayor." But what's the underlying reason? Is this not also a culture that all these declarations and all these complaints about stalking are not sufficiently taken seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u44	I don't know. Also, from my own professional practice, I can hardly imagine that, if someone makes a report for the third against a man who stalks................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. It could be. Of course I can, but I can hardly imagine it. When I read the report, I see that Hümeyra is pressing charges, that it will take another two or three days for something to happen, or that there will be an internal consultation, or that permission must be sought from a prosecutor. I think they've all been pretty busy with that in those organizations, but I notice that that girl just sat at home, didn't hear anything and thought: is there anyone else? That may be because something has to be done, but I am deeply disturbed that this has lasted months and that, in the end, she is, I think, also the complaint from the family........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We have to take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u45	We certainly have to take care of that. However, I would like to ask Mr Van Dam whether he is open to the fact that this is not taken seriously enough. I also read the fact story about Mila, which was sent to all of us this morning. Also in that you read that it is said: "Ah, he will improve himself. Let's just let it all go. We hope it solves itself. It can't be that bad." There too, someone is threatened to live the life she wants to live. Don't you play down the impact that something like that has on a woman and on life?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u46	I think Mrs Buitenweg is right. Over the years, we've started to appreciate domestic violence differently. In my early years, it was a problem behind the front door, and if it happened behind the front door, it would stay there. We've all come to see what domestic violence can mean for children's lives, for their whole lives. In this respect, I would like to agree with you that we cannot pay enough attention to stalking. I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u47	Mr Van Dam pretends that he is not proposing anything new, but he does, of course. He proposes a very active role for the mayor. It's not in the Minister's letter and it's not in the package yet. You could argue that victims can always, even now, go to the mayor. You can make a better profile of that. But is each time suggesting something new on top of what can already be... I would like to mention, for example, the implementation of conditions. A judge can do that. He could just say, "The restraining order has been broken. I'm gonna step in, and I'm gonna implement those terms. I'm gonna do it, so I'm gonna pin someone down or I'm gonna give someone an anklet." Shouldn't we look for it much more in there, in applying what is already possible, instead of creating something new next to it and putting the mayor like some kind of deus ex machina, as some kind of magical solution to the problems? I am convinced that if Mr Van Dam were mayor, victims would have a good thing for him. But you can't say that what you're putting here isn't something new? 'Cause you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u48	Well, I honestly don't know if I said this isn't something new. It's something new; I have to give you that honestly. But it is not new that every citizen can walk to the mayor now. I take your view as follows. Now, if we do what we've planned, isn't that enough? After all the names and all the situations we've had, I have a slightly more sober view of that. I still expect things to go wrong in the future, for whatever reason. At least I'm not betting on it anymore. After all the investigations and all the reports, I don't think we should leave it at that. I think this is incredibly important. I've really been reading and watching, and what keeps picturing me is that the victim himself is in a sort of quiet corner and has to wait and see what happens. I want to change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u49	But does the CDA therefore advocate the introduction of new powers for the mayor?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u50	No, actually, I'm only arguing for a doorbell with the mayor. Mayor Van der Laan once said: "At my town hall I make a doorbell for children who are abused. If you can't be heard anywhere and you can't go anywhere, you should know that you can go to me." And that's what I want.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u51	It all sounds a lot, but even if the doorbell is answered, even if the mayor gets involved and such a victim is eventually heard, such a victim, even in Mr. Van Dam's proposal, ends up in the Public Prosecutor's Office. Hümeyra also ended up in the Public Prosecutor's Office after her first, second and third declaration. And what happened after the second report? She had been hiding at home for weeks and then she had already fled to Turkey because it was just too dangerous here in the Netherlands. What does the D.A. say that Mr. Van Dam doesn't want to tackle today and doesn't want to address the problems and culture, on 22 June 2018? It says, "We'd better talk to this suspect." And what does a district attorney say after Bekir E's first conviction? Then Hümeyra had already filed a report and there had been a second report. And what does the state's attorney's office do? It's gonna dismiss that second report. That is the declaration that forced her to flee to Turkey and which, as Mr Van Dam says melodramatically, forced her to hide. It was also dramatic, but he says it melodramatically, because he does nothing with it. What does the D.A. say? "No, we're dismissing that; he's already been prosecuted and convicted of a previous charge?" Then the blow comes on the flare. Then there's the state's attorney's office again. On October 21st, Hümeyra received a note from the D.A.: I'm sorry that we dismissed him; we didn't know that he, Bekir E., was a suspect in a criminal case other than yours. But that was actually the same criminal case; it was just another report. The D.A. didn't know. It didn't want to know. What they knew, they played down, and so they abandoned Hümeyra. That's the state's attorney's office, which Mr. Van Dam doesn't address with the mayor's proposal he's making right now. So I'd like to go into that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u52	The things I do or don't address, I'd like to have on my own agenda. I don't want colleagues forcing me to do that, so I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u53	I do notice that Mr Van Dam apparently raises a little more resistance, because I had exactly the same proposal in my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u54	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u55	Because I do see a way to give that power to the mayor. It's not about him taking over, but, if that's okay, let me make the comparison with ourselves. At the moment when we may suffer from a threat or I know a lot about it, we can go here to an official and say, "Oh, I might have a problem; do you want to think with me?" In fact, you should go to the police as a victim and depend on the state's attorney, but when nothing works, it's really nice to give the mayor some kind of protection. I therefore wholeheartedly support the idea. Therefore, through you, I would like to call on the Cabinet to take a serious look at this, not so much to add something new, but above all to add something for victims who are already so powerless. That's the way you look at it, I take it? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u56	Yes. I often notice that when you make a proposal, it goes through the Chamber easier than when I do. Maybe I should learn from you sometime. That's a whole different story. No, I certainly do not want to add a new procedure, because there are plenty of procedures. For everyone who listens: that is the responsibility of the authorities that are on the filleting table in this tough inspection report, and rightly so. But I do think that there should be some kind of confidence for the victim. It's really about the heavy cases. It's really about the people who don't know where to go anymore. The point is, they can get close to someone. That's why I've been thinking about the mayor. That is someone who has a position in the separation of care and punishment, but who also has the position to deal with it in the triangle with the police and the D.A. The mayor can say, "Oh, a citizen has come to me who is in huge trouble; do you know that case and what happens about it?" And let's face it, the mayor can bring that in with authority. That's the end of it. Then that should be enough for the other partners to think: eh guys, do we have this case in hand? That's what I'm talking about. I ask the Cabinet for a response to that. I also hope they'll discuss that with the mayors. I also fully understand that those mayors have plenty of work to do. So that is certainly an element in it, but I think most mayors would say afterwards: I would rather she had come to me in advance than I have to see how it ended. That's my whole point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u57	Then we are in agreement. Let's hope for a positive response. I had a second question, also considering the emergency button. I wouldn't just want an emergency button on City Hall in the form of the mayor, and I wouldn't just want more pilots and experiments. I would also like emergency buttons to be distributed much more quickly to victims, partly because it brings a bit of peace, at least if it is well arranged and has a rapid follow-up, but also partly because it is very different from one region to another. In the Hague region there are now about twenty; Arnhem is experimenting with it, and so is Ede. Isn't the time now just to settle it on a larger scale nationally? I'd like to know about the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u58	We have already discussed this extensively before, in a debate on Security and Security. In doing so, I took the position that there should be much more attention for this category of victims in the whole story of Guarding and Security. However, we have to note that this risk instrument has to be filled in if you want to see whether someone is eligible for these measures at all. That has not happened in this matter. That's where it all goes wrong. In that respect, I fully share your view.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u59	In conclusion: of course you must do everything that the Unicorn Committee and the WODC have already found and what the inspection now finds. At the same time, we're still a bit searching.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u60	Fine. You're rounding off, Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u61	Yes. I have a few more specific questions. First of all I am told that Safe Home has a lot of new registrations in connection with this case. There are so many applications that there is almost a budget problem. I'd like to know if that's the way the cabinet sees it. I would also like to know what the new legislation that entered into force on 1 January would have changed in this case. Could we have done more with that? I also have a lot of questions, but I think I have been talking for a very long time, so I will leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u62	Yeah, you spent half an hour with us, but it was worth it. Mr Van Wijngaarden of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u63	Mr. Chairman. Hümeyra was a 16-year-old Dutch student at the Rotterdam Design College, who wanted to make something of her life to contribute to Dutch society. You could say: she wanted to be there for the Netherlands. She was stalked and threatened by her ex and was scared. She asked for help 28 times. That help was insufficient and as far as it came, it was too late for Hümeyra. Hümeyra was there for the Netherlands, but the Netherlands was not there for Hümeyra. Unfortunately, Hümeyra's death isn't on its own. Linda van der Giesen and Laura Korsman were also stalked and threatened. They too are no longer alive today. Multiple deaths in a row; the question to the cabinet now is how we're going to prevent another death. Because even after the previous dead, lessons were drawn and recommendations made. As far as the VVD is concerned, all the recommendations made are now good. One point, however, is troubling us: how is this cabinet going to ensure that bans of contact can no longer be violated without impunity, as happened with Hümeyra? How's the cabinet gonna report on this? Is the threshold sometimes too high for the courts to implement the conditions of a restraining order? Then I come to the worrying role of Safe Home. If anyone wasn't home safely, it was Hümeyra. Safe at home didn't recognize Hümeyra's possible stalking shop. How does Minister De Jonge assess this? Since a few months, the working methods of Safe Home Rotterdam Rijnmond have been further strengthened. In high-risk cases, information from the judiciary and the police is put together so that they can better assess security. Once a suspect of ex-partner-talking has been apprehended, that will be discussed within the Care and Security House. In Rotterdam, the establishment of the Centre has also started with domestic violence and child abuse, but what about it? And what about the rest of the Netherlands, at the other 25 branches of Safe Home? Or should there also be more victims before they start working in the way they should always have worked? Mr. Chairman. Sometimes the adage applies "Confidence is good, but control is better." The approach of stalking and threat is such a case. The VVD asks the cabinet to indicate as precisely as possible who is now the problem owner per recommendation. How will the cabinet assess in practice and report to the Chamber to what extent the recommendations are actually being implemented in practice? 'Cause that's where it goes wrong every time. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the maximum penalty for manslaughter, on which the District Attorney and also the Rotterdam Court have already made a very explicit statement. Fifteen years as a maximum sentence is hardly a joke, but the sentence is hopelessly dated. This punishment dates back to the nineteenth century, when many people were less old than they are today. The VVD wants to seriously increase the penalty limit to 25 years. That's a ten-year increase. The sentence for murder has been increased to 30 years, but the sentence for manslaughter must also rise. The ratio between the maximum penalty for the two crimes is now simply lost. To the unsub with the intention of killing someone, as a society, we must put our intention of holding that unsub for ten years longer than we are now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u64	Thank you, Mr. Van Wijngaarden. Mr Van Nispen has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u65	We can best imagine something from the SP in raising the penalty limit for manslaughter, because judges are now in fact colliding with that ceiling and the prosecution has also issued that signal. So we want to think very seriously and carefully about that. But the Minister has already announced in his letter that he is going to come forward with a bill and that we can look forward to it in June. I wonder whether we should really call from the Chamber now with a motion for a resolution that it should necessarily be 25 years. Or perhaps it would be wise to look at what, for example, the Council of State says: should it be 25, should it be more or should it be less? Then, according to this procedure, after the careful legal treatment we usually have here, for example, on penalty ceilings.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u66	If the next of kin speaks of an issue, if the court in question is to deal with a matter which is very exceptional, and if the Public Prosecutor's Office makes a ruling on such a matter, then I think that the House of Representatives of the States-General is quite entitled to make a ruling on it and to give it direction. That is a direction of thought towards this cabinet. I know that the cabinet is working on this and that it advises all kinds of agencies, but that does not have to stop us from finding something of this for ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u67	That's not what I'm saying at all. It is Mr Van Wijngaarden's right to express an opinion on this now. He may also table a motion on this matter. I was just wondering. You can now put parties on the block here to say yes or no to 25 years, but I do not think that is quite the careful route, even with regard to parties who are sympathetic to the proposal to consider a suitable penalty limit for manslaughter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u68	We've been talking about this for a long time. I think it's really a loss that we still haven't raised the maximum penalty for manslaughter. I think it's high time. I think it would be a good idea to encourage the cabinet to do so and to give it a direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u69	I have more to say on this point than an interruption. I do feel a little sympathy for my colleague Van Nispen. We also have other ideas about it: it should perhaps be more. That could also be a consideration. If the Chamber now gives its opinion for 25 years, that discussion will be closed. So that's a consideration for us. Perhaps the VVD could pay attention to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u70	Does Mr Van Wijngaarden not think it is time to introduce minimum penalties, so that you know that these judges can at least impose a high penalty? I would also like to say that we will support any proposal that leads to an increase in penalties. As far as we are concerned, it should also be possible to impose manslaughter for life. I would just like to say that if we vote in favour, that certainly does not mean that I will not want any higher penalties for manslaughter or murder in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u71	Then you have made this point clear. You may respond briefly, Mr. Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u72	It is good to hear the support of the PVV. I do have a lot of questions about lifting, so basically equalizing, the difference in maximum sentence between murder and manslaughter. I know that judges also have those questions, I also say to Mr Van Dam. I request a response from the cabinet. We don't have the difference between these two crimes for nothing since I've looked it up for a while in the Middle Ages, but also since the beginning of the Code of Criminal Law. If you remove the difference in maximum sentence, you're actually pulling all the life out of that murder crime. Then why would you, as a state's attorney, go for the murder charge if it's the same sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u73	I'm just trying to... I'm just going to say that you're pulling the life out of the murder case. I am trying to understand Mr Van Wijngaarden. Now he's saying, "I think it should be 25 years"? Or does he say, for 25 years, I find a direction of thought that I give to the cabinet? You might find that first one, but then you could say: I just come up with an initiative law and adjust that number. It's not that complicated in itself. If it's a direction of thought, I'm kind of wondering what the added value is. 'Cause everybody's kind of agreed that it should come out somewhere between 15 and 30 years old, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u74	That last one's good to hear. However, it has been debated for a long time. I think it would be a good idea as a Chamber to give the cabinet a direction of thought. And that's exactly what I intend to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u75	But when everyone says, "we're gonna think about getting it up," I'm gonna put on a number that's higher than 15. Then that's a bit of a senseless direction of thought, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u76	No. There's always been a relationship between the maximum penalty for the murder charge and that for manslaughter. We've already raised murder to 30 years, which has been a good step. The difference between manslaughter and murder was always five years. Now that difference has become far too big. So we say, let's do the old five-year difference that was always there, even now. That is the direction of thought that we want to give to the cabinet. I know it's a mindset that, for example, also lives within the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u77	Then it's not a direction of thought. Then Mr Van Wijngaarden simply thinks that he is free to do so; there is no misunderstanding that it should be 25 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u78	Yes, but a motion is always a direction of thought in a sense, otherwise you will indeed have to do what Mr Grothuizen says, namely to come up with an initiative law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u79	This last point, on manslaughter, I wholeheartedly support. We are indeed giving a direction to the Minister. That's our role as House of Representatives. I did have another question. A trial isn't until the end of the stretch. You do have some critical questions and critical comments, but I have not heard very much about what you yourself would like to supplement in order to help victims of this kind of terrible stalking practice. You are critical of our proposal on the authority of the mayor, but I do miss a little of the additions you wish to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u80	It's good to hear that support is there. I've been trying a lot more simply to understand the proposal. In my view, we have just made a step further in the interrupting debate. I can also imagine a great deal of it, including the power in the triangle that the mayor already has. I'd say it might really need a little more work. But I'm certainly not against it. At the same time, we must look carefully at what has gone wrong here. Then I think, "Oh, dear, then the probation can give the advice of implementing the conditions, as it is called in the jargon. That means, in other words, take action, judge, put someone in jail. That is why I asked for it. Then I hear it won't happen. Then I think: if that had happened in this case, it could have ended differently. At the same time, we should not think too much: what else can we possibly think of or add to it? I find the proposal that has been made valuable. It's an interesting thought. But at the same time, we really need to keep the cabinet very sharp. That is why I said: trust is good, but control is better. It's not the first time we've been here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u81	In any case, it is good that we are also going to look at the mayor's right of protection, that we are making that appeal to the cabinet. I very much agree with you: maintain where it needs to be. We have seen too many examples, such as that ankle straps were cut and one quietly one or two months later once in action. There is no doubt about that. But it's good that we find each other better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u82	Thank you, Mr. Van Wijngaarden. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u83	Thank you, Madam President. The government has really abandoned Hümeyra Ergincanli and her family. Over and over again she came to the police for protection and time and time again the restraining order was violated and she got to talk to different people, but she was not helped. There was fear when he called her 50 times a day, threatened her and also showed her the gun that he later shot her with. Think also of the grief about the fear of your parents and the loss of your normal life, especially when your employer asks you to resign because he doesn't want any problems. And no one to protect you. My thoughts, like those of many colleagues, go out to the family. It is also more than right that the Minister has apologized from his office. But, Mr President, this horrible and avoidable death of Hümeyra is not an incident. Women are structurally under-protected in stalking. Last night we were sent Mila's story, and there are the new procedures, as we have already discussed, after Linda van der Giesen's murder in 2015. The Minister has now promised that these procedures will really be followed from now on, but then it turns out that there are women again with an ex who does not accept that the relationship is over and continues to stalk and ignore contact bans, but is not being addressed. If such a man systematically gets away with violating a restraining order, it strengthens him. Then it gives him a sense of invincibility, of power, and then he can move on. It's crucial to stop him, to address him, over and over again. Is the Minister going to take care of that? Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks wants women who are threatened and stalked and who are at high risk of escalation to all get such a red button, an alarm. Wouldn't that help to protect victims better, I ask the Minister? Because we can talk about higher punishments, and GroenLinks is for that too, but ultimately lick on piece by piece is the most important thing, to put an end to the endless bullshit. Mr. Chairman. I want to know how many reports were made in 2019 for stalking and for threat, and how many have led to an individual risk assessment, as would happen. And how many times has a case director been appointed, someone who is the central point of contact and who ensures that not only the perpetrator is caught but also the victim is protected? In the case of sexual violence, specialized sex detectives are deployed. If such a specialty is not necessary for stalking, I ask the Minister. Finally, there are two other points. In 2018, 76 people were killed in the Netherlands. In 20% of this, it was a criminal account. We rightly pay a great deal of attention to this in the Lower House. We find that unacceptable. But 43 women were also murdered, 33 of whom were murdered by their partner or ex-partner. That's three quarters. This is often seen as a sad family drama, but there is much more to it, namely the traditional idea that a woman should join, that she should not decide for herself how and with whom she wants to live her life, but that he decides. Or, as Mila's attacker says, I'm not giving up on her in my life. With that, these women are not victims of love, as newspaper Trouw wrote, but of the delusion that men are in charge. We must be honest and recognise that this idea plays a role in many cases where a woman is murdered. Then there is my final point. Why has Hümeyra's threat and stalking been assessed as a case of honour vengeance? What was the result of this? And what does it mean that it was the primary approach of Safe Home to restore the honor within the family? What do we government have to do with that honor? It's about keeping everyone's paws off each other. No honor! I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I very much hope that the Minister will give priority to the safety of the victims of threats, violence and stalking, and that the agreements will now really be put into practice, in Hümeyra's memory and so that women like Mila can be free again in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u84	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u85	Madam President. If you let yourself understand what happened in the life of 16-year-old Hümeyra, how she was killed in broad daylight by an ex-boyfriend, that is not only painful, but also embarrassing. If you realize that she has so often called for the protection of the government against this man and that in the end that protection was not there, that is painful and embarrassing. There have been so many mistakes made in this case that we cannot make up for, but at least what we can do with all that has been done in us is learn from what has gone so terribly wrong here and do everything we can to prevent any kind of repetition. That's how I read the pieces for today. Then the commitment of the SGP Group to better protect potential victims and tackle perpetrators more firmly. We are talking here about a core task of the government, in order to protect citizens from the violence of others, even if it takes place in a private sphere. The letter gives a lot of improvement measures, useful points, good points, I am not going to go into all that. I want to highlight three more things. First of all, it has been mentioned by many, but not for nothing, because we hear from practice stories, for example from that lawyer, that it often goes wrong in the lack of enforcement of those restraining orders. Indeed, the SGP Group also pleads for lick-on-piece; in the cell if it is not acted upon. Why is all this taking so long before there's any action? I see that it is said that we will have to act within 30 days, but 30 days is still a terrible long time in such a situation. What about the protection of a possible victim in the meantime? Secondly, we also call for an increase in the penalty rate in the case of manslaughter because it is left behind. It has already been explained by others. The VVD has also said that it should go to 25 years and others say that you may have to go even higher. We in the SGP Group, and we have advocated this before, also at the beginning of this period, think that there is a gap here that needs to be closed, so we are in favour of a substantial increase in that level of punishment. We will support the plans formulated by the VVD. Thirdly, I would also like to draw attention to better protection of women from ex-boyfriends. That is a point I came across in a report from the Council of Europe on the treaty which specifically identifies women and children who are not adequately protected from domestic violence. A committee of experts examined whether the Netherlands complied adequately with the treaty obligations of the so-called Istanbul Convention. It is also said that policy has become too gender neutral. It is said that anyone who needs protection somewhere must have protection. No, women have been disproportionately affected, so I call for a more gender-specific approach aimed at protecting women. I would like to ask the government's response on this point. I also agree with Mrs Buitenweg's question on the emergency button in that context. What emergency button can we offer those who are stalked by their ex-partner? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u86	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK. SGP and GroenLinks pulling together, that's very good. Mr Azarkan, on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Every once in a while, we have debates in the Chamber that come in very hard, because the events prior to the debate are a tragedy and cause a shock throughout the country. For example, the emotional debate about the terrible murder of Anne Faber by Michael P. is clearly in my mind. There the government institutions had seriously failed. Those very authorities should have watched over Anne's life. We lost a young woman in the bloom of her life. Mr. Chairman. Today we are having another debate on the failure of public services. A terrible failure, which is once again at the highest price, namely the tragic and terrible death of Hümeyra. Only 16 years old and full of lust was she brutally taken from among us, murdered by that coward Bekir E. We are still in mind with her family, with her next of kin and with her schoolmates. We wish everyone good luck. Mr. Chairman. I struggle with the mind that tells me to read the inspection report, including the improvement measures, but also with the pain in the heart, because it weeps with every sentence I read and because I do not get away from the grief of the parents and the pain of all who must miss Hümeyra's warmth, joy and lust for life, but also from all those other victims. I realize that no debate, no punishment, no act can bring Hümeyra back. Mr. Chairman. When I read the report, I notice that my grief also turns into anger, that questions are raised like: how could it be that the unsub was already sentenced in August 2018 to a prison sentence for violence and threats to Hümeyra and the police did nothing with 28 crying for help? 28 times the emergency button has been pressed. How can someone who has a two-year restraining order still get close to the victim? How is it that 50 police officers were working on Hümeyra's case, but nobody had any responsibility and saw the whole picture? Mr. Chairman. What is the point of creating new rules when the inspection concludes that the police did not use the prescribed instruments? That was set up in the wake of Linda van der Giesen's death. That gnaws at me. And if it gnaws at me and hurts me, what would it be like for the parents, the sisters and other family members and the classmates? Mr. Chairman. There is one aspect that lingers with me. Colleague Buitenweg already named it. Let me just call it institutional bias. Because although the police registered the case in May as a possible stalking case at Safe Home, they recognized Safe Home that was not as such. It then focused on tackling honor-related violence. Why, I ask the Minister. Was there any use of honor-related violence if the victim wasn't wearing a headscarf? Was there any use of honor-related violence if the victim hadn't named Hümeyra but Esther or Sanne? That kind of pisses me off, too. Is it not time to clean up our institutions of this institutional bias? Too often, as we have seen, citizens are victims of failing public authorities, with terrible consequences. They are threatened and stalked, but there is not enough action. Let us agree, even though we cannot always prevent it from happening one hundred percent; I realize that no one should fall victim to the failure of the chain. That starts with looking critically at one's own failure. What did the police learn from this? What is the Minister's reaction to the fact that authorities such as Safe Home Rotterdam but also the police, according to the tables at the hearing of the report, wanted to conceal crucial conclusions from the report? What the hell is going on at the Ministry of Justice and Security that's gonna fuck with the truth? Is the minister gonna go through that sometime? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u88	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. That also makes us... Mr Grothuizen has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u89	At the end of his speech, Mr Azarkan raised a very important point, I think. He's talking about trying to cover up crucial passages. I also looked at that annex. I thought it was very good that it was there, because it gives us as a Chamber an insight into exactly what is happening. But I honestly missed the passage that tried to cover up crucial things. Perhaps Mr Azarkan can tell us exactly which one he is referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u90	I will pass that on to you after the debate, but I noticed that there were differences. I will send that to you in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u91	In the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u92	I will. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u93	Preferably now, right away. That there are differences, I believe, because that is the idea of a table of hearing and hearing, in which people make a comment and the inspection looks at what they do with it. Mr. Azarkan says...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u94	Crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u95	...that's been trying to cover up crucial passages. That's something other than a comment. So I'd like to hear from him exactly which passage that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u96	I'd be happy to do that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u97	Good. You'll come back to that later. Thank you. That also brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for 15 minutes to 4:10.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u98	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u99	Mr. Chairman. We are here today because more than a year ago the only 16-year-old Hümeyra was shot after she was stalked for a long time. The grief for family, friends, classmates and other relatives is very great, unimaginable. I experienced the grief when I went into the family meeting. I would like to say once again that I sympathise with them with many others in our society, but I have an extra responsibility to answer for this. The terrible death of Hümeyra and what preceded it has been investigated by the Justice and Security Inspectorate. The harsh conclusion, the painful conclusion, is that there has been serious failure in the approach to the stalking of Hümeyra. The police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, Safe Home and the care and security house involved did not pay sufficient attention to the risks that Hümeyra ran at various, very different times. Only Victim Support had an eye on Hümeyra's situation. The report shows that Hümeyra has frequently called for help from various authorities, but that it has not led to the protection she needed not only but also to which she could really expect from us. It doesn't change anything if I say that today, and I hate that. The only thing that can be done is to show that we are the people who work under Justice and Security, who learn from the death of Hümeyra. Of course, that also applies to me and even to me in the first place. Hümeyra is not the first deadly victim of a stalker, nor is it the first deadly victim in which things have failed in the government. For example, following Linda van der Giesen's death, a package of measures has been implemented. And part of it was the promotion of expertise and another part was a new work instruction. This has been done everywhere, but those measures were unfortunately, horribly enough, not yet implemented everywhere by the end of 2018. The death of Hümeyra shows that, in addition to the measures we took then, additional measures must also be taken by the parties, and quickly. This is also so polite by the authorities I mentioned and also by more bodies that have been involved. I would also like to say that Hümeyra's death has had a great personal impact on all the employees involved in this case. The recommendations of the inspections have therefore been fully taken on board. I wrote to you in detail about this in October. I have also recently sent you a letter with a number of other things, partly in response to the request made by Mr Kuiken. Mr. Chairman. I think that it must be very clear that every police report of stalking is subject to a risk assessment. If the outcome is that there is a high risk, contact the Public Prosecutor's Office and Safe Home should be contacted directly. The probation will now aim to always apply the use of an ankle bracelet in high risk situations. The Public Prosecutor's Office will give priority to cases in which a perpetrator has violated his restraining order to contact or location. He'll deal with the case as soon as possible. I note that my colleague, the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport, will be addressing questions about the red button shortly. In any case, I would like to say that Victim Aid Netherlands is now also being given an escalation option. If a case is not properly picked up or the safety is at stake, Victims' Help can now contact contact contact persons with a mandate from the police, probation and the Public Prosecutor's Office. They are obliged to give a real response to that. Mr. Chairman. That's not what we're here for. An important point, which has been raised by a number of you, is that it should be included in the bodies' capillaries. Some of you have also asked how this could have happened. I would like to say to the police that, for the police, the development of the last decade has been that they had to move from a criminal organisation to a much more victim-oriented organisation; of course also to perpetrators, but also to victims. Mr. Chairman. I really care about this theme. It was already an important theme for me before the terrible death of Hümeyra. I would like to say that I will go to a region every two months, starting with Rotterdam, to see for myself whether, how and to what extent the measures are being implemented and to talk to people about them. Furthermore, in response to what Mr Groothuizen asked, from mid 2020 onwards, the inspection will examine the progress made by the parties. By mid 2020, each region must identify how and to what extent it has been implemented. I will inform you twice a year about progress. Of course, the most important thing is that the urgency remains within the organisations themselves. One must reflect on one another and on another.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u100	I'm gonna take a look at the minister. This was the general introduction. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u101	Thank you to the Minister for giving this priority by making these visits on a bimonthly basis. If I understand correctly, he says: every report must lead to a risk assessment. I want to know when that's the case. We saw last night at Mila's lawyer's entire statement that that is not the case at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u102	That story, which I have received fragmentaryly, gives me personally only cause for more alertness on the self-monitoring of what is happening. The risk assessment tool must now be put in place everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u103	That's good in itself. That's how it's supposed to be. This was promised in 2015 and in 2018 completely. It's supposed to be, but the question is, is it? If a lawyer sees that nothing happens, that there is no risk assessment, if a victim himself finds that it doesn't happen, where can one go?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u104	A victim will also be in contact with Victim Support. In order to avoid that there are still individual shortcomings of people who do not do what we have hammered together, there is also the direct intervention of Victim Aid that we are going to use. In a sort of PS to Mrs Buitenweg, I would like to say that I will personally go after the issue that has been sent to you. I will return to that in a letter to the Chamber within two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u105	That's good to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u106	At the end of my first term, my colleague from D66 asked what crucial passages these were. I refer to this because the Minister is also referring to it. It seems as if there is a difference between how the police look at the way in which one approach is applied domestic violence and child abuse, and how the researchers see it. There seems to be a difference of interpretation. Does the Minister agree that this is the way to proceed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u107	The method I have just described should be applied. One of the parties concerned may express its views in the context of re-examination as part of an inspection report. That's what happened here. How that takes shape is up to the inspection. I am not going to interfere with that at all. I believe it has already been designated by Mr Grothuizen. You will then see what, according to the method, may have been given as a different opinion. The inspection report is, I think, very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u108	Look, the police under 17 say that the program one approach domestic violence is not a method. And I think I hear the Minister say that's the way it works. The researchers have said: we maintain it, because we believe in everything we see that this should be the way it should be. My question to the Minister is: is he going to convince the police that this method must be applied in a clear way? Or does he think that the police themselves should continue to think that this is not a method, but that it, as they themselves say, supports the units in the implementation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u109	I have taken full advantage of the recommendation of the inspection. That's what I've been telling you before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u110	Mr. Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u111	I would like to put two different issues to the Minister. Firstly, the Minister says whatever you see in the inspection report, namely that the police are an organisation targeted at the perpetrator and that this has been one of the reasons why there has been insufficient attention to Hümeyra's safety. I agree with the latter, but that approach directed at the perpetrator sometimes, quite frankly, I missed a bit in the description. That's what I was going to ask the Minister. On the next page, page 27, it says that Hümeyra will take all kinds of measures on 14 September 2018. What do the police say? The police tell her there's no point in reporting all these incidents if she doesn't have any evidence that it's actually Mr. E. Then I thought: who is actually collecting evidence in this country; are those people who we give the order to, or is that just the job of the police? I think it's the police's job. If that's true, can you at least insist that the police were too focused on the perpetrator and that that was the problem? Then the police just didn't do their job at all. And that's what I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u112	I just want to make it very clear once again what I started to say. This report is about a series of shortcomings that you would not have to expect from the services. The explanation I have just given is in line with the findings made by the inspection on page 27. I wanted to raise this point of origin, because I wanted to point out some of the reasons why I think I should do my utmost to ensure that the approach to stalking ends up in the capillaries. I would like to respond immediately to Mrs Buitenweg's question, which I will come back to in greater detail later, namely the question of specialization in the field of morals, stalking and so on. In vice we see the same thing: the police are gaining more and more non-classic police-oriented expertise, such as psychologists and the like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u113	I don't think this was really an answer to my question. Just to be clear, I see the point that you can be too focused on a perpetrator in a stalking case, and that that means you're losing sight of the victim's safety. I think it's a good thing we're paying attention to that. The only thing I want to warn you about is that the police are telling themselves that she has done so and that she has sufficient regard for the collection of evidence. When I read the inspection report, I have to say that they did not. I read that at too many moments, where I'm getting one out now... You should have read a phone, done this! This is just a VH fact that you can use BOB resources for. But none of that happened either. I think the problem is bigger in that sense. That is why, among other things, I asked about the capacity problem. I guess that's what it's all about. This is not a question, Mr President, but I am going to ask it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u114	I didn't mean to. You were supposed to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u115	You're right about that, Mr. Chairman. My apologies. My question concerns another point: the evaluation. The Minister says: yes, that's what the inspection is going to do. What exactly is the inspection going to do? I read that the inspection depends on the input of the organisations that are to deliver it, but I would say that the inspection itself should check in one or two years' time whether it is going to be okay. That was my point. Otherwise, you get a little bit of the situation that the butcher approves his own meat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u116	I've heard that expression a lot in the last few days, by the way. I'm not a big fan of it myself. In general, however, I would like to say that a study in two years' time, as Mr Groothuizen describes, seems to me to be good in itself. I'll be in my second period, if I count correctly. You'll have to allow me to... I'm sure there'll be a few more... I have just said that I will return to this matter within 14 days, as Mrs Buitenweg asked. In that letter, I will immediately indicate how we would conduct such an investigation. If we really want to stay away from that butcher, then I think the inspection itself should say how it feels that it can do this in the best way for your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u117	I am happy to ask the inspection, but then I understand that the Minister undertakes that the inspection will do so actively and will not, therefore, depend on the input of the authorities. By the way, I would like to pass on to the Minister if he often hears that the butcher approves his own meat, which might give him reason not to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u118	I heard a question mark behind that last piece. I said, "I hear that, but I'm not one of them myself." I would like to discuss this with your Chamber in about three weeks' time as a result of some publications, because I would be very interested if we had self-criteria in this building.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u119	Before proceeding, I give the floor to Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u120	I have the Minister's letter here. It contains good promises, namely: "a number of crucial preconditions to respond well to stalking - and threat cases are filled out, the reporting process is improved, information is actively gathered and the responsibility for a case is invested in one place." That's fine, only this letter was dated 22 June 2016; that's three and a half years ago. Then these promises were made after the investigation report TweeSteden by the Unicorn Committee in response to Linda van der Giesen's drama. In fact, we are now reading similar promises in the Minister's letter. We also hear fine words and justified comments in the Minister's introduction. However, I do miss the analysis of why these promises have not been made in the last three and a half years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u121	I said a few things about that. I will make that clear and I will also see if there are any additional points. I have already mentioned in my story what the organization of origin was aimed at. This victim approach is really something that has come up more and more in the last ten years. It's still got to get in the fibers of the police how far this stretches. It does happen, but it takes a lot more proactivity. That's what you see in this terrible case. A second point I have mentioned, which I find extremely painful, is that it was precisely in this region, in Rotterdam, that new approach was about to be implemented, but for the most part not yet implemented. A third point in this case is, I think, problem ownership. I believe that's what Mrs. Kicken said. It was one of the first two speakers, but then I have to take my notes. I only deleted it for the sake of a good debate, but I had a whole list of all the organisations involved. That's fine, because they all have different expertise. Victim support obviously has a very different approach than, for example, the police, which we have just talked about. But problem ownership really needs to be invested much tighter. Hence the point of the case manager. Finally, I would like to say to Mr Van Nispen that at least this is the only subject that I am saying I really want to go to everyone in a strong rhythm now to see for myself whether they have done their homework and what problems or issues they have encountered. I am not even going to do that with other serious problems, but I must make every effort to establish this with the people on the spot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u122	I think the Minister's commitment is right. I sincerely believe that. However, in June 2016, I sincerely believed from the Minister that he was really going to do all this. Although he did not promise that he would go to work every time. So again, I have no criticism of that, but I find this very complicated. I do not believe that individual police officers are in the fibers that they want to protect victims, because of course they want to. They do their stinking best every day for that, but that organization is not set up on it. I am very concerned that, for example, the Rotterdam region, but there will be more, in three and a half years after such a tragedy, it will not succeed in getting things in order. And more importantly, even after the tragedy of Hümeyra there are regions where things go wrong every day; as we have read in the extensive factual account of the lawyer Peter Schouten about the case of Mila. That is another example, but there are many more. And that's what really worries us very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u123	Just so we're clear, it's not about me saying that... On the contrary, individual officers are the people who are also taking a step forward for the victim. The organisation and thus the developed working method come from a different direction, because police officers are the people who are also entering people who are having a very difficult time in, for example, areas like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u124	Mr Markuszower also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u125	In the letters we have received, the reports written and in the introduction that the minister has just given, a lot is said about everything, but the role and mistakes that have also been made around the perpetrator Bekir E. in this matter are not addressed by the Public Prosecutor and the judges, so the magistrate, is not addressed. The Minister does not reflect on this and therefore no repair proposals are made. I'm asking the Minister, why not? Can the Minister indicate what the Public Prosecutor's Office has done about the defendant Bekir E., not only in the Hümeyra case, but also in the cases before that? I won't bother the minister with the judges, because he won't say anything about that. The Minister is in charge of the Public Prosecutor's Office. What should the D.A. have done better? What has the Minister done so far towards the Public Prosecutor's Office with the mistakes made by the Public Prosecutor over the past eleven, twelve, thirteen years around the defendant Bekir E.? Are there any improvements? Did the minister call the state's attorney's office to order? Did he tell the guys in the D.A.'s office that from now on the helm is really about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u126	In my introduction, I said about the approach to stalking that the Public Prosecutor's Office is going to bring these matters to the hearing as a matter of priority, in order to take one point out. I have discussed a number of points with the Public Prosecutor's Office and you will forgive me for, of course, having done so with the College of Attorneys General, which is the top of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I said to them: listen, the inspection has made painful observations about the Public Prosecutor's Office, and those painful observations must not only concern us with this particular case. The D.A. went to apologize himself. I also said that we should have it followed up by a improvements in the process and b an alerter, different mentality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u127	Just a little more concrete. In May 2017, Bekir was finally convicted of a previous aggravated assault. He only gets four weeks. Parole! He doesn't really get four weeks, he gets four weeks probation. If he had just been in prison after that previous conviction, he wouldn't have been able to get to know Hümeyra at all. So he only gets parole for four weeks, but of course he violates that condition, because immediately after that he will stalk and threaten Hümeyra. That's how he knocks her out of the mouth. The Public Prosecutor's Office of Minister Grapperhaus is also responsible for following such a convicted person. They didn't perform here. They didn't take that. They could have put Bekir E. back in custody immediately after Hümeyra's first report based on that previous conviction, but they failed to do so. The specific question about this case is whether this can be avoided. Can it happen now? I assume Minister Grapperhaus has spoken to the Public Prosecutor about this. That the Public Prosecutor simply lets such a suspect walk around in a second case, so after he has already been sentenced to a suspended sentence in a first case? Then there is the second concrete example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u128	Maybe first this question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u129	Well, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u130	Maybe it's good to do it this way, starting with this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u131	I can't go all the way into this case that can happen somewhere. However, I would like to say that the improvements made by the Public Prosecutor's Office in its approach together with the improvements that the other authorities concerned are going to make, such as the intervention powers that Victims now have and the appointment of a case manager, the risk that someone who can still pose a risk to a victim who could actually achieve will really be reduced to a minimum.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u132	So I do not hear a concrete commitment from the Minister that if someone convicted of serious threats and ill-treatment goes wrong again, in this case with another victim, the Public Prosecutor's Office will immediately arrest such a person. Even though he'd be allowed to, on the basis of the law, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u133	I didn't quite understand that last part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u134	I'm not getting a commitment from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u135	No, I heard that. I mean your last half sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u136	I said, despite the fact that the Public Prosecutor's Office is competent to do so under the laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u137	I have explained to you that I cannot rule out every possible situation completely 100%, so to speak. However, I would like to say that it is a fair question to ask that these measures, and above all to ensure that they are implemented, should they not happen and to invest centrally in a single case manager who is going to do so, reduce the risk that the situation may arise that someone can reach the victim to an absolute minimum.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u138	And then I'll ask for an assessment of the Minister's next. I also want to know what the Minister did to the Public Prosecutor after he read this. What's going on? So this Bekir E., he's actually a big child rapist, a huge criminal who's threatened and beaten several women and girls and who's used heavy force, and who's been in contact with the police for the umpteenth time. He's already been convicted. Then Hümeyra's gonna press charges again. What does the district attorney say? He says on 22 June 2018: I am not going to act on that, a strict conversation seems better. In the follow-up, on 14 September 2018, after Hümeyra's umpteenth complaint and declaration, the prosecutor says that it will only dismiss Hümeyra's second declaration, because he has already been convicted of the first. What does the Minister think of this action in these two major examples? What did he say to the D.A. about whether this could happen again in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u139	I repeat once again that I think that in this case, as the inspection finds painful enough, there are many things that have really not been done as one might expect. I'm gonna have to take care of that, because I'm responsible for that. What did I discuss with the state's attorney's office about that? I went through very clearly with the College of Attorneys General that in future we should do everything we can to ensure that the risk is absolutely minimal that stalkers can harm their victims. Unfortunately and horribly enough, there will always be people in our society who have terrible intentions. As far as I can see, that can't be ruled out 100%. I must insist that we do everything we can to ensure that the victim's protection is optimal. One of the most important points in the report is that the protection of victims in particular has been very inadequate. I have just discussed this with Mr Van Nispen and with Mr Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u140	Thank you for that answer, but I ask you what you have done in concrete terms in the direction of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Have you changed guidelines? What did you say to the Public Prosecutor about these two examples? What did you do with that D.A. to prevent this from happening? I can't hear the answer. The Minister says he is responsible, but now this whole Chamber is responsible, I also say to my colleagues. Because we know this minister isn't really acting, right? We're also hearing that he won't tell us what he's gonna change at the state's attorney's office, aren't we? So if we don't redirect this minister and help him deal with the D.A., then we know nothing's gonna change, right? So I would ask the Minister once more whether he can give a concrete indication of what he has said to the Public Prosecutor about the examples I have just quoted. And what's he gonna do or did he do to make sure this doesn't happen again? It's not a general threat to me. Of course, the minister can't rule out every danger in society, but this Bekir E. we had, we had the authorities of the minister, we had it fixed, we had it in our sights, and we let him walk. And if the minister doesn't act, we'll run another Bekir E. again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u141	Mr President, I am not going to repeat what I have already said. I have, of course, talked to the College about the terrible conclusions and about the recommendations, but also about the observations made in this report, in so far as they concern the Public Prosecutor's Office. I can assure you that the College fully agrees with me that we should do everything in our power to protect victims in situations like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u142	The rapporteurs are crystal clear about the assessment of risks. The police failed because they did not use the prescribed instruments. Otherwise, the risks would have been assessed differently. I am really curious whether the Minister sees the fact that the prescribed method has not been applied here as an incident. Or does the Minister agree with what the police themselves write on page 9 of hearing again? There she writes: we do not see it as a programme approach, but we sometimes use it as support, if it suits us. Is this now of crucial importance and is it always used? Or does the Minister say that this is non-binding and it is up to the police to settle that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u143	This is somewhat a repetition of the previous question, and I am going to repeat my answer. I fully accept the findings and recommendations of the inspection on this point. The police say in the context of hearing again things that I, when I read them, will not be happy; let me put it this way. I have to answer for that right here in the Chamber; so not that I'm not happy, but that the police say this. So you can charge me with that, and I'm responsible for that. But I have just said, and I keep saying, what the inspection does about recommendations and observations, I take over 100%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u144	Then my follow-up question is whether the Minister can take stock of this later, by letter, in which regions this is seen as a method that should be followed. Or is it considered noncommittal, just like the police thought, in this case, Rijnmond? About writing down the inspection, the minister says he's very unhappy about that. By that, he means: it shouldn't have been.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u145	I have to say that I assume that it is now being expressed as such in all regions. However, I would like to say to Mr Azarkan that I hope that this will be done in the same letter I promised earlier, but I have to see that, because in some regions it may take a little longer for me to ask this question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u146	It's one force these days, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u147	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u148	It's one national force now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u149	Yes. Through the force then to all regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u150	I asked for it in my first term, a little in line with what Mr Markuszower is putting forward. I hear the Minister say that he has spoken with the College of PGs about the recommendations. I've just been reading in the letters sent to the Chamber about this case. What I do not read anywhere and what I do not hear the Minister say, but what I have asked for is how this report has been discussed by the people in the Reclassification and within the Public Prosecutor. I think it is so very important that these people look professionally back on what has been done and what the recommendations are, as far as I am concerned, not in the settling atmosphere, but especially in the sense of 'boys, you have to learn from this, you have to continue with this'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u151	Yes. Mr President, you may think that I have been working for a long time, but in the meantime I have already answered many questions from the first term which are now repeated in interruptions. If you will allow me, let me answer the questions about the JenV organisations in one piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u152	Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u153	After Hümeyra's death, the organisations mentioned in the report were immediately contacted. Following the inspection report, therefore, I also spoke with the police officers, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Reclassification and others. This is, of course, about the Justice and Security Organisations. The honourable Member may perhaps be able to supplement something later on with regard to the single VWS organisation that plays a role here. I have already said it, but I repeat: this terrible event has made a profound impression on the organisations and also on the people who were directly involved. The realization that this has gone terribly wrong and that there have been serious shortcomings in how this should have been handled, I have heard a very clear statement. I have also heard that the parties not only recognise that they need to work hard on changes and improvements, but are also strongly motivated to do so. Those are honest, open and also, let me be honest, emotional conversations. Those emotions really fall in the dark about that, let there be no misunderstanding about what happened to Hümeyra's family and friends. But really, in one sense: it has been extremely attracted. I'm gonna keep going anyway. Mr Groothuizen asked a question about the stop call. It is important to intervene very early. The conduct of a stop call is part of the approach of stalking. The police can stop talking to the stalker if the stalking isn't going on for long and hasn't escalated yet. Because there's going to be a stage where it really doesn't make any sense anymore. It can be fed in different ways. It also appears to be effective, especially at the beginning of stalking, especially with ex-partners. In plus half of the cases there is no new notification or declaration after the call.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u154	I also see Mr Groothuizen at the interrupting microphone, but I just want to know how far you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u155	Not far. Should I keep going? Or should I...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u156	Very briefly, Mr. Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u157	The police can do that, but is it now the standard procedure for you to do that in principle at the beginning of a stalking case?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u158	It's part of the approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u159	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u160	Mr. Chairman. Do we have enough capacity now? That was also a question from Mr Groothuizen and Mr Van Nispen. The point is, of course, that choices are always made in the use of police. The local authorities determine the prioritization. In my letter of 17 December last, I discussed in detail the measures taken by local authority, including the police chief on the ground, to meet the pressure on police capacity. These measures are in some cases taken together with me. With regard to ex-partner-talking, considerable investment has been made in doing good risk screening with related measures. Good performance in ex-partner-talking currently requires additional police capacity. That's what we're really committed to, so the police react better and faster. On the basis of a risk assessment, it is also really determined whether immediate police action is needed, or whether, for example, Safe Home can help in the case in question. After I have reread the report for a second and a third time in the last few days, I can see how I should put it. The lack of prioritization has been more a cause of a lack of commitment than a real lack of capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u161	Have all the questions about police capacity been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u162	I think so, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u163	There is, indeed, too little police capacity, but we should not be having this big debate here now. Unfortunately, that is a fact now. We have always opposed this, but that is the case now. It's easy to talk in hindsight, but there's one thing I have to establish. The minister just said I just read, reread and read the entire report. If we're talking about the report, I'll take page 35, because what was there struck me. This is about 11 December 2018. That's seven days before Hümeyra gets shot. The detective then decides that all kinds of aspects need to be examined, but with the appropriate team, the team interventions, at that time due to other investigations that have a higher priority, there is no capacity to figure things out. Other teams also have no way to pick this up. They're all gonna check it out after the weekend. Again, I cannot criticize police officers who have too few colleagues. The Minister doesn't. That's not the point. But this lack of capacity has not been resolved; not now, not next year, nor will I fear in two years' time. What's the point of making these choices so that alarming reports are picked up immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u164	Two things. Therefore, we should not discuss police capacity here, because there is something else to be said about this. What goes wrong, in particular, is the prioritisation. I'll notice that when I get that part of it. You described this case as a very disgustingly constructive story. When you get to pages 34 and 35, you actually say, "This is the wrong place to prioritize." I hate it, but that's what happened. It's not a matter... Well, I'm really sorry to say "if." But anyway, there's wrongly prioritized.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u165	That's right, but there's also, in the end, a limit to prioritizing. We are not going to have that capacity discussion here, but if you read the inspection report correctly, you cannot completely ignore the fact that this has played a role here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u166	I don't think so. I want to stand up not only for the cops, but also for the chiefs of the base teams who have to make these kinds of decisions at some point. Know well that things must be prioritised with great urgency, and there is real capacity for that. And that fell into the water here, I'll admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u167	That's what you said. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u168	Mr Van Nispen asked, and rightly so, whether the professionals have enough space to act and do what is necessary. Indeed, there are just a lot of professionals involved in the stalking problem. I think we should say that, because it is a problem that is not always easy to recognize. It also calls for different disciplines to be put into practice. That is one of the reasons why we really think there should be a case manager or problem owner on such a case. Furthermore, it is true that the professionals are trained in the police, and that is being tightened up to recognize that stalking earlier, really as early as possible. We haven't talked so much about the ZSM table. That's also a place where professionals can find a match on stalking cases. Mr Van Nispen asked about the improvement proposals he made last November. These proposals are largely in line with the measures taken in the policy response last October. We are also going to make clear where and how a violation of a restraining order can be reported. We're gonna get the police to see right away that there's a restraining order when a victim calls. And really set up communication with the victim much sharper. The police can already make up their minds at the moment and through those case managers soon there is much more coherence in a case. We're just not going to put a two-hour clock on returning to the Public Prosecutor's Office, as Mr Van Nispen had asked, because that really requires a number of steps to be taken. I think this is a really important subject, so again, I'm sorry, Mr President. I mentioned the immediate possibility of Victim Support, and so there are a number of other things. That timer is not working, but if a certain security risk is detected at any time, it could be reported more quickly above. Mr. Chairman. Then I've had all this. I have already dealt with the question of the implementation of the Unicorn Committee. Mr Azarkan asked why the police and Safe Home tried to cover up crucial information in the inspection report. That didn't happen. This has already been mentioned by Mr Groothuizen in an interruption to Mr Azarkan. The inspection has taken a very serious and critical look at this, and I think it can be read back in the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u169	Let's talk about the last one. The minister says a person can go upstairs. What does that mean upstairs? Then what is the use of time, resources and perseverance? What can you actually do or enforce?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u170	What was not possible in this case, or did not go well, was that Victim's aid clearly indicated great concern, but did not have direct access to raise it with the officer or the chief police officer. This has now been made possible by the addition to the approach. This must lead to the fact that, if Victims help indicates that it is simply not safe, at least one of them can be contacted directly on the spot. I call that upstairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u171	Speaking is good. It seems to me no more than rocket science that this is being arranged at all, but that does not give you an action perspective. As a result, you cannot say: we must act now and act now. That's gonna get us stuck in what we already had. If you have a serious case manager, then I also want him to have the space, the time and the perseverance to enforce action. Because if it isn't, then it's a empty cry and it's just paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u172	That case manager already has it, but in order to prevent things from getting stuck or not going well at that level, that red button, you could almost say, has made it possible for Victim Help to go to the officer or the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u173	One last attempt, still about the case manager. What concrete measures can he or she enforce?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u174	For example, the officer in question will be obliged to give feedback to Victims' Help, because it is being alerted to him or her: listen, that case is not being properly taken up, the safety is at stake. So we have an extra situation, which has not been possible so far, in which Victims' Aid itself can say 'this must be taken action'. And that officer, apart from the case manager, will have to answer for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u175	The Minister just indicated that in my first term I indicated that from Safe Home, but also from the police, there was an attempt to leave matters out in the report. We've already discussed that. The Minister says that this did not happen, but it did, because in the Tables Again, on pages 9 to points 15 and 16, "The programme 'One approach domestic violence and child abuse' does not prescribe anything." That's what the police write. So would you like to change that in the report? And then the researchers say: we do not take over, because we believe that it prescribes something. Isn't that just a matter of trying to hide it? Then the second. Safe Home writes on page 31: we did not primarily focus on dealing with honor-related violence. That is what the researchers say: interviews show that it is. Why do these bodies want to have this in the report other than the researchers have included it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u176	You will notice that I have been told a great deal, but not this. I'm about to say something about the cover-up, but first, this. That authority, for example, the police, has indicated this on the basis of false assumptions, as the inspection finds hard. Period. Well, that wasn't included in the report by the investigators. I'm glad you noticed that, too. That is then put in the annex to the hearing, so that everyone can see that the police, under my responsibility for the service again, I am responsible for it, so please let it be clear that clearly the police here was not well aware of how it works and that it has also been misidentified. So there is no cover-up at all. The researchers have even pointed this out: this was in the second hearing, but we have not taken it over. That's part of a good investigation, by the way. I don't think there's any cover-up. The police have given their opinion fairly and the inspection has said: it is not right. Well, then I don't see what's covered up. You will notice, Mr President, that I really think that the authorities have been involved in all aspects of this report, no matter how terrible it is. They are deeply unhappy, but they have not obscured anything in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u177	One last question. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u178	I take back the word "sudden." Why do I do that? Because it is true that the authorities have a different view. But with that, it is very crucial that I come back to the previous discussion.... that the police apparently thought she was working within the rules. It matters a lot, also in the liability to the family and perhaps also to society, whether you do not follow the way you should have applied it, or whether you think you have applied the method correctly and that something has gone wrong. I think that's crucial. That's why I used that word. I find it odd that the police have a different opinion than the investigators. The same goes for Safe Home. It is crucial that it is diagnosed as honor-related violence. This has put it in a different box and has not received protection. There has been a healthy discussion between the researchers. Fortunately, it hasn't been taken over and that's why it says so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u179	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u180	Shall I continue? I have already said a great deal about Mr Groothuizen's question as to whether the implementation organisations have really learnt lessons from this. So I do not want to repeat that. I would like to come back to what I promised about a major inspection investigation in two years' time, which Mr Grothuizen interrupted. I want to make it clear that by mid 2020, all regions must show how they have implemented it over the last two years. At least that is what the inspection is going to carry out an evaluation on. But it's independent of the investigation I promised in two years' time. I just wanted to say that, because I didn't finish that sentence at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u181	I have the impression that there may be a little more to say about Mr Azarkan's questions. In my opinion, it is a matter of saying at Safe Home that there was a vengeance of honour and that that is why on this file was the employee who specialized in honour vengeance. Well says Safe Home itself: no, we didn't pre-sorted it, because we also looked at stalking. But that argument is not taken up by the inspection. Safe at home will keep it. So you can see there's a difference. This, of course, also has an impact on future issues. That is why it is important to know from the Minister what he wants to do to ensure that Safe Home actually ticks the right box and does the right thing in future. I see the minister refers to Minister De Jonge next to him. All right, then we'll continue the discussion with him, but I think it's important not to throw away what Mr Azarkan said, because the point is, of course, very relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u182	You made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u183	I didn't put that away for the police. I just reported that to the police, but for Safe Home... yeah, it sounds a little lame...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u184	That's what the Health Minister will come back to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u185	My colleague will be with you shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u186	The Minister just pointed out very quickly in a sentence that the inspection is going to investigate its introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u187	That was already in the letter, memorized by me. At least the inspection will ask all regions, or has already asked whether they will show how they implemented it by mid 2020 at the latest. They'll come up with an evaluation of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u188	Yes, and yet I think we have every reason to be critical of the nature of that evaluation. Is that gonna be a theme research? How is the Chamber involved in this? Why do I say that? Because we want to see how this is actually done in practice. It is therefore not necessary to examine from a distance whether a particular protocol has been introduced and a certain training has been given, but it is really necessary to check in practice whether the new approach is being respected. Can we as a Chamber expect the evaluation to be of that nature? Or does it go less far?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u189	Yeah, I think that'll be the character. I would also like to stress that it is a role that the inspection itself takes on. I am, of course, prepared to tell you that I will send you the evaluation reports of the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u190	Please continue. I think you're...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u191	I'm almost halfway there, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u192	Halfway? Oh, no!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u193	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Nispen's question is crucial: how are you going to regain the trust of victims in the government? I have mentioned a lot of measures that we have taken, but I think I should do so myself. That may be a little unusual, but I'd like to do the same for the people in the field. I do not just want to touch them or know what, but also tell them that I am involved in the fact that they are in this heavy improvement process. That is what the inspection will look at both this year, in 2020, and for the research promised to Mr Groothuizen in 2022. Mr. Chairman. I am almost there, but we have also talked about the protection measures and the measure of punishment, including the request for protection to the mayor. I think it should always be possible for victims to seek help. I particularly consider the enhanced role for Victim Assistance to be very important. It must have a red button to contact the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the parole board at any time immediately: it is not going well here, justify it and pick it up immediately. I think you need to set that emergency button. By the way, of course, citizens can always turn to the mayor. But, and then it gets a little complicated, that's not up to me. I believe that my services should already have an emergency button that requires the case officer, the detective or the chief of the base team to intervene immediately and answer for it. I'd like to say I'd like to explore the mayor's emergency button further. I think it is understandable in itself that they are coming, but I will come back to you with a thorough opinion as to whether this system has any real added value. It must not be the case that it does not add anything to the measures we are now putting in place. Mr. Chairman. I also received a question about the penalty ceiling. I have already told you in a letter that I do not agree with explaining that great maximum sentence either. That there is a difference between murder and manslaughter, Mr Van Wijngaarden has made a number of sensible reflections about this. I think he's indicating exactly that there has to be a certain difference. I am very positive about the suggestion that Mr Van Wijngaarden and Mrs Kuiken apologize, I should have said in the right order: Mrs Kuiken, and then Mr Van Wijngaarden, to raise the penalty ceiling by about ten years. The legislative proposal, which has already been fully implemented, will be put into consultation by June at the latest. If you were to table a motion for 25 years, the complicated point is that, according to the system, I have to oddly discourage it, because it is a policy support. But I'm very much in favour of it. I'm just saying that. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Wijngaarden also asked how we are going to ensure that bans on contact can no longer be violated without impunity. As a result of the inspection investigation, we have taken measures to speed up the sanctioning of these violations. I indicated these measures in my introduction. We are going to monitor that these are actually being carried out, including myself, because those services, police and prosecutors are very close to me. And since Mr Markuszower asked for it, I would just like to say that, in urgent cases, the prosecution can order the arrest of the convicted person immediately and request provisional enforcement. The Judge-General shall then decide on the action within 72 hours. Mr. Chairman. I have another question from Mr Van der Staaij. That is the last, at least Mr Van der Staaij is not the last, but this question is the last. And by the way, the last of them will be the first to know that we all know that. That question concerned the protection of victims. It is essential to act as soon as possible towards the suspect or offender in the event of a violation of a restraining order. In addition, we need to look at what that means for the victim's psychological and physical safety. There's a role for Safe Home. That then monitors the safety conditions and can therefore refer to the colleague. Mr President, these were all the questions I thought there were.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u194	I've got a bunch of MPs on the Interrupt Microphone. I'm giving you the opportunity to ask some really short questions. There is also a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u195	The Minister mentioned his bill to raise the penalty limit for manslaughter, but did he mean to say that there is also the figure of "25 years"? In short, is that exactly what the Minister's draft legislative proposal says at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u196	A specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u197	Well, I'll be very honest about that: I thought I'd put "24 years" into that. That has to do with all kinds of paybacks, but I also think 25 years are understandable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u198	That bill's just coming to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u199	I would like to go back to the last point made by the Minister, in my view. This concerns the rather extensive discussion that we had about the role you could give the mayor in this. I understand that the Minister says: I'm introducing an emergency button on which Victim Help can press the Netherlands. I note that this is an emergency button within the organisation's system. Could he please give me his opinion on the position of people like Hümeyra himself? She's like a very little girl, and so are those other women... What does the Minister think of this loneliness and the loneliness of people in relation to all those organizations that are best for us, but which do not deliver at such a time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u200	That is, of course, unfathomable, and that is why everyone feels it is such an embarrassing and terrible situation: there was a failure here, in front of the family, but also in front of a 15-year-old girl, because she was that old when it started. Nor is it about making our systems work better, but the reason why I myself think I should run after it is that we need to ensure that people have protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u201	I would like to stress one more time, and I would like to end by saying that my initiative is certainly not intended to add an additional procedure or step or responsibility in the systemic world, but it is about giving individual citizens more power, giving them a lifeline throughout that journey. And if the Minister wanted to look at such a proposal with that intention, I would be very pleased.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u202	I will take into account everyone's intention, as far as here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u203	It was just about the rapid reaction to a violation of the conditions, for example if the restraining order is violated. The case will then be dealt with by the court within 30 days at the latest. Isn't that too long? Shouldn't the starting point be that this is happening much earlier in these cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u204	The task is to ensure the safety of the victims at least in those 30 days. Because one is to deal with the unsub vigorously and the other is to protect the victim. Those 30 days are for getting the case that you have to present in court, to get everyone on edge, a very fast, fast term. I can imagine that there are people watching or listening and saying: can't that happen in five or eight days? In any case, we want to prevent a dossier from being presented to the judge in an optimal manner and the horse is being stretched behind the cart. That is why, if I may say so, Mr President, it does not relieve the victim protection side of being very sharp in those 30 days and perhaps taking additional measures, such as an ankle strap.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u205	Yeah, but the best protection is the unsub in jail for violating the restraining order. I understand that there are cases that take a little longer, but my question remains: why isn't there a commitment to bringing a case to court faster? That's more of a piece of cake, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u206	I understand what you're saying, but I've just indicated what the point is. It doesn't discharge the victim's side of the obligation to in those 30 days... We have said within 30 days, but I understand that Mr Van der Staaij says: it will only be 30 days anyway. As long as it takes to get that case to trial, up to 30 days, everything must be done to provide the victim with psychological and physical safety, protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u207	Finally, on this point. Given the importance of protecting the victim in these cases, shouldn't the starting point be that it's earlier than 30 days? That's just the deadline. I'm a little concerned that this doesn't put enough pressure on getting a case in court as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u208	I say I am very generous today with commitments, but that also belongs in a case like this one, that I am going to talk to the prosecutor about whether it is possible to say "as soon as possible but at the latest 30 days', with which the emphasis will be more on that shorter period. So I say, as I say for the people at home, that I want to talk to the public prosecutor about this, but in the end it is up to the public prosecutor to decide for themselves. Otherwise, we'll have to come back here and see if we can give a clue. But can you give me a chance to talk about that first?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u209	That's a very good little bridge, because I'd like to make one more point before we talk to the D.A. That's about the prosecutor's designation of domestic violence and honor-related violence. The indication states that it is important to distinguish both forms of violence from each other, because they both need a different approach. Where domestic violence often leads to punitive intervention, it is said in honour-related violence that criminal action can lead to escalation more quickly, which we must avoid. In the case of something like honour vengeance, therefore, there is less criminal action. That can't be the idea. The Minister says that everyone should be given an individual assessment. Whether there is danger from one individual or from an entire group must be assessed individually. But why does the prosecution's designation simply state that honor vengeance must be judged differently from other forms of violence?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u210	I will refer that point to the Public Prosecutor's Office, because I understand the critical note of the Member Buitenweg. Precisely because the D.A.'s office makes these clues independent, I have to discuss it with them. I'm saying that that letter is slowly becoming a foliant that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u211	Yeah, it's gonna be a long letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u212	...that I'll come back to that in a week or two in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u213	Then this point will also be taken into account. Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. As you know, the Minister is very concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u214	Mr President, thank you again for this encouragement! I will answer the questions which concern, in particular, the domestic violence policy field and which simply end the questions as they have been asked. I will combine them if there is any consistency in terms of substance. I shall begin with the question by Mrs Kikken and Mrs Buitenweg about personal alarms and the personal alarm system. The question was: isn't that used by default? It is not used by default, but it is of course used in stalking cases. The municipalities buy that in. I know that from my Rotterdam practice. There the Aware system was part of the domestic violence approach. That was of course used dozens of times a year and that was judged by Safe Home, the women's shelter and by the police. They made a professional assessment of whether an Aware system could contribute to immediate security. Especially in cases where the assessment was given "high risk', this was the case. At the moment the stalking approach at Safe Home and within the Security House is strengthened in Rotterdam. One of the components is to re-examine the situations in which you actually do that. In what situations do you just have to deploy such a personalised system? There is a new approach, in conjunction with all kinds of other measures taken to strengthen the stalking approach. This approach was completed in the spring and will also be made available to other regions. I would like to say to Mrs Kuik that I do not belong anywhere in the next progress report of the Violence Programme, which is likely to appear in June, to address the extent to which other municipalities apply the same approach. I think that's important. The search in your question was: should this not be nationalized, should it really be regionally dependent and what is actually the ratio behind regional dependence? Of course, there isn't. Of course, there are several parties involved. We all understand that. But actually we would like to have some sort of national standard there. Well, that standard is currently being developed in Rotterdam and then offered to the rest. So I will let you know in the next progress report to what extent it is possible to actually make this a national standard. Mr. Chairman. Then to Mr Van Dam's question: is it true that the number of notifications at Safe Home has increased? The number of stalking reports at Safe Home Rotterdam has indeed increased significantly. There is a general increase in the number of notifications in the rest of the country. It has as its background the adaptation of the reporting code, whereby another way of reporting is done, so that Safe Home has more things of domestic violence and child abuse in mind. So there is a larger part in the picture of that iceberg, which we usually say we only know the tip. Safe Home also performs a radar function. Safe Home has really gotten a different role since January 1, 2019. There is also a new protocol of action. Since 1 January 2019 many regions have seen the notifications increases. And that pinches. That's what ticks when it comes to waiting times and to being able to meet their own standardized times. This means that we have jointly ordered the Empire and the United Nations to investigate the extent of this increase and the appropriate measures to be taken. That is now in the final phase. I expect this spring. Then I'll let your Chamber know how I'll deal with that. Then Mr Van Dam asks: if we had already had the law mandatory ggz, the law care and coercion and the law forensic care, if they had been introduced earlier than last January, could it have helped us with regard to the perpetrator? When I look at the research report, when I see what could have gone well, which has gone so horribly wrong, sequentially, I don't think we would have needed all these laws just to do 1,000 times better here and perhaps even prevent that fatal outcome. So, no, I'm not looking at it that way. The Wet forensic care, the Wet zorg en compulsie en de Wet obligatie ggz offer more possibilities to use forced care in an outpatient setting. That can also broaden the intervention palette in forensic care and probation, but in this case we had so many other possibilities to do it very much better, that I think that law had added little to it. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked the question about the organisation of the centre of domestic violence and child abuse in Rotterdam. When does this also go to other locations of Safe Home? In the programme Violence, we do not belong anywhere to work to strengthen the multidisciplinary approach, at all anywhere at Safe Home. This is part of the protocol of action and part of the new approach of Safe Home. Since 1 January 2019 we have been building and strengthening this. In the programme, we have chosen to say on top of that: a multidisciplinary approach is absolutely good and you should definitely want to do that, but imagine that all those parties that you actually need for a really effective approach would actually be under one roof, wouldn't that be much more beautiful? That is actually an idea that comes from the United States in particular. Could we not also introduce this in the Netherlands? Three pilot regions have been identified: Tilburg, Rotterdam and Kennemerland. That's where they're piloting. In Rotterdam they are actually quite far away with a reinforced multidisciplinary approach, which takes place for an important part in the Safety House, and also with working on "under one roof." Right now, it's still really in a pilot phase. I can't say "we're gonna roll that out all over the country for a while," because we really need to see that. That pilot will be equipped and will only start this year. We really need to see to what extent this multidisciplinary approach really adds value to taking place under one roof. I believe in it very much, by the way. That's why we started those pilots. If you're under one roof, working processes are just easier and easier to set up. Digital can do a lot these days. Sitting around the table and meeting in the building helps. The VVD, but also GroenLinks and DENK asked about this honour issue. What exactly is that about in that report?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u215	Mr. Van Wijngaarden, do you have a question about the previous point? Yeah? I call Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u216	It doesn't have to be a competition which of the two ministers is the most frequent in Rotterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u217	I think I'll win. In Amsterdam, by the way, my colleague wins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u218	Exactly, but now that Minister De Jonge is there often, can I hope that he too will show the same personal commitment as Minister Grapperhaus has just indicated? I believe that this can indeed motivate the people who ultimately have to do this terribly difficult work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u219	Definitely. It is a policy field that, when I just started as alderman in Rotterdam in 2010, I got transferred from Jantine Kriens, the alderman who started the approach to domestic violence as one of the pioneers in the Netherlands. I remember when she said at the 2010 transfer: imagine you would want to do it all differently at all points of my portfolio, which you are going to do now, then go ahead, but at one point you really have to continue with what I started, because that is important. That was the theme of domestic violence and child abuse. It was also about merging these two themes. Also stalking and honor-related violence are forms of domestic violence that require an extremely disciplinary, complex approach, across the border of care and punishment. I'm very committed to making that a success.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u220	Yeah, okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u221	Then I come to honor-related violence. The inspection actually says that this case by Safe Home is not sufficient for what it was. It's seen as a matter of honor-related violence. Several questions have been asked about this. I like the transparency of this report. It is an inspection report in which you can also hear and hear again. It also contains the reactions of the researchers, who indicate to what extent they can or do not accept this. Then you see that Safe Home says: "That is not right. We got the case from several quarters. As a police stalking report, but we also received other reports." Indeed, the attention officer has been involved in honor-related violence, which is just a senior researcher from Safe Home. But, it is said, we have not only looked at the glasses of honour-related violence; we have also looked at them widely: what security conditions would be going on here? "Well," the researchers say again, "this is not evident from the reporting of the discussions, so we cannot accept that in that way." I think that's fair; that's how it's supposed to be. I like that Safe Home responds with its own professional judgment and its own memories. I also think it is right for researchers to say: you can say that, but we cannot see that, so we are not taking it over. It is assumed that this would lead to a completely different approach, but I think there is a distinction in it, the distinction Mrs Buitenweg refers to. If you know something's a stalking case, you know you have one perpetrator and the danger of one perpetrator. If you know that something is a tribute, the threat is potentially coming from several family members. That means that you deal with the security conditions in a different way and that you look at them in a different way. I read the response of Safe Home in this way: we have taken this case as a high risk matter anyway. And I notice something else in the assessment of the inspection, of which you can say much more than that this has been fatal or that this has been decisive in not acting adequately in this regard................................................................................................................................................................ They thought the unsub was gonna be under the radar with the cops. They thought so, but they didn't check. There was no single directed approach. They didn't work multidisciplinaryly together, but they kept thinking in their own case that the other one did. That's exactly what you can't afford in this kind of business.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u222	I'd still like to see how far you're going with answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u223	I think I've had the questions about honor with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u224	Yeah? And what else do you have on your list?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u225	I have another question from the SGP and that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u226	Then I'd answer that question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u227	Yeah, it's a whole different time that I'm gonna pull open, but it's possible. The question concerns the assessment report of the GREVIO Committee on the Dutch approach to domestic violence. On this point, the committee says that the phenomenon of "gender" is in fact insufficient on the retina. Now I am very good at talking to the NGOs that have supported this, because I can't quite follow it very well, to be honest. I have had a debate on this before, but usually with the more progressive wing of the Chamber, I say in the direction of Mr Van der Staaij. That's why it was a somewhat exotic angle where this question came out today. I have had that debate with Mrs van den Hul of the Labour Party. In her direction, I said that there is actually no gender-specific policy area but the phenomenon of domestic violence. You cannot see anywhere so clearly that there is a substantial difference between the prevalence of victimisation and the issue of domestic violence. It's just that it's very often women who are victims, much more often than men. The perpetrator is a man much more often than a woman. The women's shelter is really a separate branch of sport, really focused on women. So I would say that there is no more gender-specific policy area than the issue of domestic violence. However, NGOs seem to have a different view of this. That's why I'm going to talk to these NGOs and come up with a cabinet response to that GREVIO report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u228	Fine. Then I think you were done. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u229	I was done, but I think there's still a few more interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u230	Do you hope for interruptions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u231	Well, I like being here. "The longer, the better," I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u232	Good. You're a little out of your interruptions, Mr. Azarkan, but you may ask a very short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u233	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for letting me do that. Let's get back to the "honor-related violence" approach. Because it's just a little bit different from what the minister says. The researchers say: the reports do not show it, but the interviews do show that the primary approach was not stalking. Then this is linked. It's seen as a violent relationship, but not stalking. My question to the Minister is: what impact has it had on how it was handled?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u234	That is a fair question, which I have asked myself. There will be a play-off between Safe Home and the inspection of what has been the primary approach: honor, stalking or violence in the relational atmosphere. My core question is: what does this really matter? Both in Mrs Buitenweg's question and in your question, you see that this matters, because in honour-related violence there can be a multiple focus on the potential offendership. You have to understand the patterns and you have to have the phenomena honor and honor-related violence on your retina. That's why attention officers have been trained within Safe Home. But in this case, it was now valued as a high risk case. What has gone much more wrong in this case is that people at Safe Home have thought, but not checked, that the perpetrator was on the police's retina and was under control there. That has gone far more wrong here than the distinction between honor and non-honour or a stalking case. I think it is important that, in the follow-up to Safe Home Rotterdam Rijnmond, we asked for everything they learned and everything else they should have done at that time to be worked out in a new stalking approach. There's about nine parts in there. Of course, this includes screening and how to respond to it. That approach will be ready in the spring and I want it in the rest of the country. In the meantime, for example, nine attention officers have been trained, because they have a lot more cases in the field of stalking. I think this is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u235	I understand the difference in the threat of an individual or a group. It is therefore a good thing that this is taken into account in such an individual assessment. But then I went into the honor-related violence at Safe Home a little bit more. I was wondering if there was, in a way, too much coulance for honor revenge. I'll quote from the government website: "Here's something concrete. It's an asset. This property may be affected or taken away. It may rise or decrease by the behaviour of individual family members... by, among other things, acting chastely." I think this is a bizarre text, namely that as a government we act as if honour is a fixed property, a concrete thing. It's totally fluid. It is entirely dependent on different people. We don't have to indicate some kind of credibility here, that there's some kind of revenge on behalf of a group in the name of honor, do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u236	Then I should see this text in its context. I can assume that this is meant as: so it can be perceived in a number of families. I suppose that's the way it's supposed to be. A lot of studies have been done on the phenomenon of honour. It's not all like cutting scissors. Honor is very different by tradition. There is also a difference in the extent to which this tradition is lived through within the family. In Pakistani, Turkish and Moroccan circles, honour occurs in a different way. I would like to check where this text comes from and in what context it is in, but it seems to me that the importance is beyond doubt that people engaged in violence in dependency relations are aware of the latest state of mind in the phenomenology of the phenomenon of honour revenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u237	I think it is important to look at that carefully. I'd like to ask the Minister. It's on the website of Safe Home. You can say we mean it in a different way. Maybe a man who has to act like a real man is trying to interpret what someone else says, but I think we should all stay far from it. For us, it's about being an incentive as a government if there's a threat or violence; whether it's an individual or a group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u238	That's clear. I assume you'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u239	Anyway, but that does not alter the fact that it is extremely important to have the potential impact of honor-related phenomena in a relationship of violence and dependence on the retina, to be able to weigh a matter properly and to properly assess the potential consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u240	But that's not the question. The question was whether the text on the website can actually be done that way. And that's what you were going to find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u241	I'm gonna go check it out. Mrs Buitenweg will have to tell us exactly where it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u242	I think that's very good. Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u243	I would actually like to hear a statement on this from the Minister in the debate, because I find it extremely strange that texts on chastity are on the website of Safe Home. To the extent that the government sets standards and talks about them, that should not be about possible religious standards that live within the Pakistani community or I know what community. It must be about the norm: any belief is never a justification for violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u244	No, of course not. Don't get me wrong. I said to Mrs Buitenweg: when I hear it like that, I find it a strange text. I can only imagine this text in the sense of: the phenomenon of "honor-related violence" occurs and how is honor experienced within a number of cultures?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u245	But that's gonna be a repeat. It seems to me that we can do that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u246	I'm just gonna take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u247	It's good to hear from the Minister that he does think it's a weird text.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u248	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u249	Thank you. That's it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u250	We have now reached the second term of office and I give the floor to Mrs Kuiken on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u251	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Ministers for their reply. I believe in the intentions, but at the same time it is true that we have had reports before without much change in practice. So it is very good that Minister Grapperhaus says: "I am really going to do something about it now. I'm going to go to work, and I'm going to visit the regions. I am going to evaluate it and, on this basis, we really need to be able to see that this assistance to the victims is improving and in particular that perpetrators are being taken off the streets immediately when, for example, they break a restraining order." Mr. Chairman. On a number of points, I have had concrete commitments, including on bringing the sentence for manslaughter to 25 years. I also had a commitment about the notification button and the authority of the mayor to see how to deal with it. But I still find one point very unclear and that is what the perseverance of a case manager means. I see that Victim's help is gaining more access, but that is not yet a perseverance force. So I still do not know whether there will actually be more money, more resources and more measures for such a case manager to say, for example, to the Public Prosecutor: we are going to do it this way. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas police stalking has been included in the work instruction that in stalking cases a case director for police direction is always designated as a point of contact for other chain partners;]] [[considers that victims of stalking should have a point of contact within the safety chain;]] [[considers that a case director should have all necessary information, resources and perseverance to protect a victim;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the case director is provided with all necessary information, resources and perseverance to instruct partners within the safety chain to ensure all necessary safeguards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuik and Mr Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-564]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u252	Just for a second. The district attorney is the authority over the police. The district attorney also has responsibility for people's safety. Can Mrs. Kuik explain how I should see this reversal of the relationship of authority?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u253	What good is a case manager if he can't do anything? I don't care who's gonna do it. If the problem is that the D.A. is not acting, that restraining orders can be violated without acting and that ankle straps can be cut without acting, and you say you're pointing out a case manager, I expect there to be a certain degree of perseverance there too. Whether it goes through a mayor or through the triangle, I don't care, but otherwise it's an empty cry. I want that filled out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u254	I think we share that more people have responsibilities for things, but then I don't understand why, for example, you don't give the D.A. that case direction. In the end, it has a lot more possibilities to give that meaning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u255	The point is that it is one person who feels responsible for the victim and also takes the necessary steps. When we talk about a case manager and then it's an empty cry because he or she can't do anything concrete for a victim, we'll be back here in a few months. Then we can bring up a lot of things, besides Mila's, where it's not properly arranged. I want that to be put into practice: that is how we are going to do it. I have also signed a number of motions, including in areas where commitments have already been made. We'll see what happens with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u256	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u257	Mr. Chairman. Victims have the right to public protection. Government failed in that and that is not the first time. A lot of promises have been made before. Today, too, we are receiving reports from victims and lawyers that things are just not working out yet. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in practice there may be uncertainty among police officers or victims of threat or stalking protected by a contact, location or area ban;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that victims of threat or stalking are immediately provided with physical evidence of a ban on contact, location or territory and to include them in a central register which is immediately accessible to all police officers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Nispen, Van Wijngaarden, Kuik, Buitenweg, Groothuizen, Van Dam, Van der Staaij and Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-565]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u258	Proceed, Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u259	Okay. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the procedure for imposing contact, location and territory bans on perpetrators of threats and stalking is too often lengthy and difficult, which poses risks to victims;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a proposal to facilitate the imposition of contact, location and area bans on stalkers and operators in order to respond more quickly to threats and to provide more rapid protection for stalkers and victims, for example by investing this power with the Deputy Prosecutor after reporting,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Nispen, Mr Kuik, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-566]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u260	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the two directors for answering the questions. I thought it was a complicated debate. These debates are, in fact, always complicated, because the problem is not so much in rules, or lack of rules, or in policies, but very much in implementation. We all note that it has gone wrong on many fronts with very sad consequences. So the key question is how to solve that. Quite frankly, after this debate, I still do not know exactly how we are going to do that. I understand the measures proposed by the Cabinet, and I support them. I am pleased that the Minister of Justice has promised that in two years' time the inspection will carry out independent investigations to see if things are going better. That seems to me to be sensible, but it still remains a little hope that things are going well, and that has something unsatisfactory. Mr. Chairman. I also found the response of the Minister of Justice to the demand for capacity to be somewhat unsatisfactory. I know that the cabinet is investing and I also know that you can't just open a can of people, but I can see that we have some sort of sea of injustice outside and very few people to sail that sea. I think you're gonna get that tick culture. Then you tend to work things out for a while; to treat them quickly, but not really properly. I think it would be better if the cabinet simply acknowledged that it is not so much a priority but that there is also a real problem with capacity. Because then I think you can start thinking about how to solve the problem and keep it fixed. On this point, I should like to have another reply from the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u261	Thank you, Mr. Groothuizen. I give the floor to Mr Markuszower on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u262	Thank you, Mr President. In order to prevent many more innocent victims from falling, I'd like to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the Bekir E. case there is a direct link between the failure of several bodies and the murder of Hümeyra;]] [[noting that the necessary cultural change cannot be made at the Ministry of Justice and Security and all services covered by that Ministry, as long as the services and officials are not held responsible for their failure;]] [[calls on the government to dismiss all responsible failing actors in this case,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-567]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u263	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Ministers for their reply. Hümeyra is buried in Turkey. I understand her black-marble grave has her name in golden letters. And above that is the word "şehit," martyr. And I think we should link the death of a martyr with a duty to that martyr to improve the world. I think a lot of measures are being put in place to improve things in the system. But it is clear from my input that there is more than just the system. There must also be a better position for those involved. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that despite all kinds of reports, measures and good intentions, victims of stalking and domestic violence do not receive the protection that is urgently needed for them;]] [[noting that, over and over again, victims and their families feel alone, despite all the efforts of organisations in the criminal and care chain;]] [[Whereas improvement measures focus on procedures and practices of bodies, rather than on strengthening the position of victims and their families;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Society of Mayors, to examine the possibility of setting up an "emergency button stalking" for victims in need to vote more than they do now,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Dam, Grootehuizen, Kuik, Buitenweg, Van Wijngaarden and Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-568]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u264	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u265	Thank you, Mr. Van Dam. I now give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u266	Mr. Chairman. We have had a worthy debate so far. I would like to concentrate on raising the penalty ceiling for manslaughter. The last time we did this was in 1886, so it's kind of about something. We await this with impatience. It is good to note that the Minister and we are at least on the same page in terms of maintaining the distinction between manslaughter and murder. And when it comes to punishment, we know where to find each other. It is regrettable that it may then have to be discouraged for procedural technical reasons, but we are close together. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the maximum sentence for murder has been increased to 30 years and no increase in the sentence for manslaughter has been achieved;]] [[Whereas the Rotterdam Court and the President of the College of Attorneys General advocate a higher sentence for manslaughter;]] [[Whereas the difference between murder and manslaughter may also be reflected in the maximum penalty;]] [[Calls on the Government to submit a legislative proposal to the Chamber by June 2020 to increase the maximum sentence for manslaughter by 10 years to 25 years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mr Kuik, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Krol, Mr Hiddema and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-569]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u267	I would like to say to the Minister that there is no legal obligation for a consultation, given that the Rotterdam Court and the Public Prosecutor have already spoken on this issue. In this sense, the Minister could make even more rapid progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u268	This point has been sufficiently exchanged in the first term, so Mr Van Nispen can only ask a brief question about the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u269	And I was so clear in the first term! Nevertheless, Mr Van Wijngaarden is tabling a motion, which is why I have to ask a question about it, Mr President. I warned him like that, I say with a wink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u270	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u271	What exactly is the added value of this motion? This is literally what the Minister has promised, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u272	The added value of this motion is that the Chamber, as co-punitive legislator, may express its views on the direction in which the penal law should develop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u273	This too has been changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u274	But that wasn't the question. Then it takes a little longer, because if there's no answer, you have to ask the question again. I asked what the added value was, because this is literally what the Minister said. It is not that when you make a comment in the debate, that is not your opinion. Of course, the People's Assembly can say something about it. But when it comes to legislation, I think that we can and should come up with own-initiative laws if we think that something needs to change. Otherwise, we would have to wait for the legislative process, unless you want to force something that the Minister has not yet promised. Then it's a different story. But that's not the issue here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u275	You made your point, in the first term and now. It seems that Mr Van Wijngaarden does not intend to change his mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u276	I think we've exchanged enough of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u277	That's good. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u278	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to thank both ministers. Of course, we are dealing here with the complexity of the procedures to be put into practice. But I do see commitment, and I really thank the ministers for that. They're really willing to make this happen. I am sure that we will talk about this many times, but at least I find that encouraging. That's the most we can pull right now. The rest will undoubtedly be discussed in the coming months and years. A number of questions about the data have not yet been answered. I had asked how many reports have been made of stalking and threat and how many individual risk assessments have been made. I have asked whether there has been such a case director who has already been promised in the previous proceedings. I would like to see those questions dealt with. I'd like some more explanation from the Minister. He referred to a specialization: just like in vice. I would like to see what commitment we have now received from the Minister. Then I have another motion, which, fortunately, is brief, Madam President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas certain groups of victims of domestic violence, bellaging, stalking and threat are provided with an Aware/red button system that directly involves the police in acute threats;]] [[calls on the Government to make this system available to all victims of threat and stalking with the highest risk assessment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Buitenweg and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-570]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u279	Madam President. I would like to thank both ministers for their response and their motivation to ensure that all improvement measures are actually implemented in practice, so that better protection of victims can also be achieved. Thank you to the Minister of Justice and Security for the commitment to look again at whether the violation of the condition of a restraining order cannot be brought before the court. I assume we'll be informed about that. I have one more motion. This relates to the point that the VWS Minister indicated that there was a somewhat exotic combination of a bit more progressive and a bit more conservative. But we have indeed found each other on the point about which I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands has entered into commitments in the Istanbul Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women;]] [[Whereas an expert group monitoring compliance with the Convention has encouraged the Netherlands to raise awareness of the disproportionate impact of violence on women;]] [[calls on the Government to take explicit account of the increased risk of violence for women following the break-up of a relationship and to promote its inclusion in directives when providing protection against stalking and threats,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-571]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u280	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u281	That is a special motion, or I mean a special cooperation. Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u282	Mr President, thank you. There are two more points I would like to return to. The first is that I still don't understand why the police didn't consider SAHS, Screening Assessment for Stalking and Harassment as the method to be applied. I still find it special that they have tried to do it differently in that investigation and that it does not exist in that investigation. They said we didn't agree. I am very curious whether it was not applied nationally either, because that would be contrary to the previous agreements. The second aspect concerns something Minister De Jonge said. He said it doesn't really matter what the indication was, but that's different in the report. The report does say: If Safe Home had indicated it as stalking...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u283	Do you have a motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u284	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u285	Then you should take it now...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u286	...then the case should have been given different attention from the first moment. That's what the report really says. I ask the Minister to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u287	And now the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u288	Mr President, then the motion. It's a good thing you're pushing me. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the inspection report on Hümeyra's murder shows that although the police report the case as a possible stalking case at Safe Home, Safe Home does not recognise this as such and then engages in addressing honor-related violence;]] [[noting that this does not give the case the right attention from the first moment on and that Safe Home does not sufficiently focus on the protection of Hümeyra;]] [[calls on the Government to consider what measures can be taken to counter possible institutional bias in the chain of OM, police, probation, Safe Home and Victim Support Netherlands in cases of violence, threat and stalking, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan and Mr Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-572]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u289	I should like to thank the Ministers for their reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u290	Thank you. I see Mr Azarkan and the Minister now. We really shouldn't do that until the meeting is suspended. We've come to the government's response. There is a need for a short five-minute suspension. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u291	We have arrived at the second term on the part of the government. I see the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport is the first to assess the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u292	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions and one question. The first motion is the motion by Mr Buitenweg and Mr Kuik in part No. 570. It calls on the government to make the Aware system available to all victims of threat and stalking with the highest risk assessment. I have indicated that this risk assessment is made in each individual case. Per motion, it is difficult to make an Aware system available for an entire category. And yet I agree, because I want this to be made available in all the municipalities, albeit with the remark that an individual assessment is always made. That assessment can also lead to the fact that it is not a good idea, or not now, to use that system. Nevertheless, I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber, because it must be available throughout the country. Then there is the Van der Staaij/Buitenweg motion on part No. 571. We've been paying a little attention to the exotic cooperation. That is precisely why I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. We come before the summer with a reaction, after I've talked to all those NGOs. We will even have another debate on it. That's what's on the roll. We come with a reaction and I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then there is Mr Azarkan's question. I read in the inspection report: "This does not give the case the right attention from the very first moment and does not sufficiently focus Safe Home on the protection of Hümeyra." Of course it is. It didn't get the right attention. The question is whether the most crucial mistakes have been made. Even after the hearing and rehearsal response of Safe Home, where there is a bit of well-leash with the inspection, I think I can and must maintain that it was in particular the element that they did not see that the perpetrator was free, that it was crucial for the security situation and that they had to contact the police, to agree who is doing what, or that boy is already being put away and so on. All that kind of conversations weren't held where they should have been. That is the crucial point. Point taken, otherwise I'm going to repeat what I did in the first installment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u293	Thank you. Did you also have a question that has not been answered, Mrs Buitenweg?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u294	Can I make a very brief comment on this? This is precisely in line with the fact that it is being assessed differently. It is said that this does not mean that there is less safety. In combination with all those cases that are still under investigation, for example about the prosecution, such as that the offender is not arrested, but is mainly going to an aid route, this often leads to less protection. The whole package must be looked at carefully at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u295	Then you made your comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u296	Let me just say briefly that I share that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u297	Thank you. That's the way it's gonna be. I now give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u298	Mr. Chairman. I'll do the motions first and then I'll have three more questions and a small final word. The movement-Kuiken/Buitenweg in part No. 564 I must dissuade. The case director is already being facilitated. He's the one in the police department who has to connect all parties, both internally and externally. He must bring the information together and make arrangements on that basis and monitor progress in the police very clearly. In our legal system, authority remains ultimately leading. That is why I must advise against this motion, because there cannot be any kind of power of command.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u299	Then the motion to part No. 565.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u300	Then the motion-Van Nispen c.s. in piece No. 565.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u301	Very briefly, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u302	I can see it's complicated with the relationship of authority, but for me it's complicated that it's still an empty shell. May I tempt you to better indicate exactly what powers that case manager is given and in what situations that will help? If you're just sharing information with each other, we're doing the same thing we've always done, and I think that's too skinny. If you would like to undertake that, I say through the chairman, I am prepared to hold the motion or to formulate it more technically.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u303	I would like to make a commitment to explain this to you in more detail in the letter which has already given rise to a number of pages. I did just describe in a nutshell the role, the task and the powers of the case director.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u304	That too has been sufficiently exchanged in the event of interruption with Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u305	But if you hold this motion, I will return to that in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u306	What are you doing with the motion, Mrs. Kicken?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u307	I need more specification and I need to think about this. That's why I'm holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u308	At Mrs Kuik's request, I propose her motion (29279, No. 564). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u309	Mr. Chairman. In the motion by Mr Van Nispen c.s. in piece No. 565 are in two parts. Passing on physical evidence is a problem within the framework of the Police Data Act. I must always advise against that part; that is what I want to say. On the other hand, I would like to ask whether it can be stopped. A central register is being developed. They're really working hard on that. First, I want to get an idea of the possible implications. I'll get back to your room on that. I would like to emphasise that I am very much in favour of the second part of this motion. With regard to the first part, I have already said something about the Wpg, but I also want to see what...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u310	This is a motion from Mr Van Nispen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u311	Yes, that's the second motion, in part no. 565. The request is to apprehend her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u312	Well, the petitioners have until Tuesday to think about it. Should the motion not be held...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u313	...I'll have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u314	Okay. Then that's clear, too. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u315	Even because of the first part. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 566 by Mr Van Nispen and others with the request to give the power to the auxiliary officer as well. I'm gonna have to dissuade him, because that's what the D.A. is doing. He has that authority at the so-called ZSM table. We can't get that to the assistant officer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u316	Very briefly, Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u317	This is no way to discourage a motion: we cannot insist on doing so. No, not if you're assuming the current situation. I also know that the district attorney now has jurisdiction. In view of everything that we have said about this in the debate, I am not going to repeat that. I challenge the Minister to make it easier to impose restraining orders, because sometimes there is really no time to waste. I therefore challenge the Minister to consider including this possibility in the declaration. I am also prepared to work this out fully expertly and legally well-founded and to send it to the Minister, but of course I do not have time for that in such a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u318	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u319	I understand that, but I would very practically ask for the motion to be withdrawn at the moment, because in fact Mr Van Nispen has given me a broader request.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Then I would really like to propose that the motion be withdrawn. And then I take note of the commitment I just made, by the way, of the fact that Mr....
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u320	Or hold on. Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u321	You can hold on, too, but I'd like to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u322	At the request of Mr Van Nispen, I propose his motion (29279, No. 566). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u323	Mr. Chairman. Of course, I do not know exactly how to interpret that legally, but I note that Mr Van Nispen has made me an offer of legal support from the Chamber. That's pretty unique. I'd like to take advantage of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u324	Well, that's what you see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u325	The commitment from the Chamber made to the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u326	...is in the Acts, Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u327	Yes, that should also be mentioned in the register of side jobs, I think, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u328	Yeah, yeah, yeah, side jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u329	Mr Markuszower's motion for a resolution 567, in which the government is asked to dismiss the failing actors, I advise against. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 568 is the motion in which the government is asked to enter into consultation with the Society of Mayors. I'll give it to you, Chamber, if I can understand her in such a way that I can get that point out of the letter that comes in two weeks' time. I will do that and then I will give the motion judgment Chamber, otherwise it will not be physically feasible. Those other things I would like to share with you quickly, like the story of that young woman who went to your room last night. Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask Mr Van Wijngaarden for his motion on item No. 569 to be retained. Before the summer, the bill goes into consultation and then we will follow the procedure. I would like to say that I will make the wish of the Chamber very much consider the penalty. But the request is therefore to hold the motion, if I do not make it clear that I am going to consult with the bill before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u330	If Mr Van Wijngaarden does not hold his motion, what is the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u331	Then I guess it's complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u332	Perhaps Mr. Van Wijngaarden...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u333	I'm not gonna arrest her. But the Minister says something very interesting. He says: I will therefore consider the wishes of the Chamber. But then it is also a good thing that the wish of the Chamber is expressed, so that we simply vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u334	That's what the motion is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u335	That's what the motion is for, indeed, so we're just going to vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u336	What about the Minister's judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u337	But then we come to a complicated point, because then I think that this motion, as it now stands, supports policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u338	Then the motion is dissuaded, if it's support policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u339	Then she's been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u340	Those are the assessment frameworks we agreed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u341	That's not up to me, but okay. I'll see if I've had it all. We still had the motion in part no. 572 by Mr Azarkan on the adoption of measures on institutional bias. I'd advise against it. I have explained in detail what all the improvement measures are. I have indicated that I personally will also go there to see how this is implemented in practice. I also mentioned the inspection investigation. There should be no institutional bias in the context of the improvement measures. Mr. Chairman. Then I had three questions, first of all from Mr Groothuizen, about the shortage of capacity. We really keep thinking about that differently. I'd even like to bring this point up again when we talk about police capacity again, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u342	The other questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u343	There is a great deal of priority for this kind of thing. It did not go well here, but that should never be an excuse for that in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u344	The other questions? There were two more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u345	There was a question from Mrs Buitenweg about case directors. I admit that I will return to that in the letter, because I have to remain guilty for a while. Now I had one more question. I've always lost my third leaf. I promised the number of case directors in the letter. I thought I was still from one of you...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u346	Do you know what question that was? Was that a question from you, Mrs Buitenweg? What was the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u347	Sure. I had two. I had one about the vice detectives. What exactly did the minister mean by that people would specialize like the vice detectives? The other question was about the number of declarations versus the assessments and the like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u348	I promised I'd get back to that in the letter. From that other question about specialization, I had to say that the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u349	Good. Did you have a question that hasn't been answered, Mr. Azarkan?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u350	A brief word on my motion. The researchers note that there has been misdiagnosed, namely: honor-related violence. That's why security isn't in order. I am tabling a motion in which I say that institutional bias prevails, because it has been diagnosed in this way. You don't have to. Then the Minister says: that was not the case. I have just had a different debate here than the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u351	In this case, various services of the government, most of them under my responsibility, have been seriously inadequate. That's reflected in the inspection report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u352	It's been changed here a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u353	If that's all right with you, I'd like to end by saying that we're here for a terrible reason. That is the death of the very young girl Hümeyra. That motivates the colleague, me and our officials very much to get on with it, even though we cannot make it right. Finally, that is what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u354	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u355	Actually, I wanted to leave it at that end, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-8.u356	The motions tabled will be put to the vote on Tuesday. I would like to thank the Minister for Justice and Security, the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport, the Members of Parliament and all the people who have followed this debate here or through a medium.
