ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next question is from Mr Paternotte to the Minister for Medical Care, about racism in care. I would like to welcome the Minister. I call Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. There were complaints about "the black sister." Clients sometimes refused to let her in for home care. She gets comments like "I don't want black" and "cunt foreigner." She is one of the people who is committed to helping others, people who are working their way out of the seam to keep us healthy. How much hate do you have when you say to someone who wakes up in the morning to make you better or to take care of you, not with your color? It's a story that hurts to describe, but the reason to stand here is that it's not a story in itself. Researchers see an increase in racism in care. Last year there were 76 reports, but they think this is the tip of the iceberg. There are carers who think if something goes wrong or something is stolen, would they blame me? It leads people to choose not to work in healthcare, no matter how much they like to help other people. Mr. Chairman. This is un-Dutch and we shouldn't accept it. In her previous job, this minister has imposed a fine on discrimination in applications under a law. Very good. Hopefully we'll deal with it soon. We therefore have high expectations of her work for care. That's why I'm asking her my most important two questions. First of all, where is the standard? What happens if a patient refuses care because the nurse or doctor has a color? Does the Minister agree with me that such a patient can't just get another one to bed? Two. Will it also tackle racism and discrimination in health care? Is she going to make sure that this kind of case, whether it be patients or caregivers, is reported? How is she going to ensure that caregivers of colour who are affected by this are kept for care?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I, too, read Sameena's story. I can tell you that I had two reactions. The first reaction was that my stomach turned around, because, as Mr Paternotte said, in the past I also had to deal with issues of labour market discrimination. I've heard a little too many stories from people who have something to do with that. The second thing I thought was: how brave of her to come out with this, because in the end I agree with Mr Paternotte that we as a government should set the standard. We must make clear in our legislation what we want. But it's also a conversation in society. We have Article 1 of the Constitution. We have put the most important thing, namely equal treatment, first of all what we want and find with each other. At the same time, reality forces us to face the fact that discrimination and racism are still not eliminated in many places in our society. Especially in the office I now hold, where care is at the heart of, we see major shortages; there is a serious shortage of people working in care. We want to make the profession attractive and then we can't have this. The brave thing about Sameena is that she came out with it. As far as I am concerned, we have these conversations with each other everywhere, in every healthcare organisation and in every patient organisation, but if you ask what the standard of government is, it is first and foremost that racism and discrimination are unacceptable. To strengthen this, there is a passage in the BIG Act about conditions and possibilities to stop the provision of care, for example, when people are incredibly aggressive. As far as I'm concerned, that's something you can do in the end, but more importantly, having a conversation with your supervisor, setting the norm towards patients, and having a conversation with your colleagues about the fact that someone might be getting forgetful is not an excuse to say these things. As a government, we have made it possible for people to report their employer. This also applies specifically to people in care. But I think it is especially important that people with their colleagues keep telling the story and that they know themselves supported by their supervisor and certainly by us in politics and governance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u5	I thank the Minister for her answer. I think she describes the problem very well, but as far as the action is concerned, knowing her, I think it can really be more concrete. I would like to call on her to do so. I have asked for attention to be paid to it and to ensure that more frequent reports are made, that more frequent use is made of the possibility of saying 'we do not give you that care', even if it is home care, to make it clear where the border lies. But I won't repeat that call three times. I actually want to make another proposal. Last Friday Black Lives Matter Netherlands asked for attention to the care, for this problem: racism in care, towards patients and caregivers, but also wider, in relation to certain diseases that are more common among Dutch people of colour. Is the Minister willing to table with Black Lives Matter Netherlands to look at their proposals for tackling racism in care and ensure that the care is there for everyone in the Netherlands, including for Dutch people of color? Is she willing to discuss this with them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u6	I hope that Mr Paternotte and Mr Weyenberg, with whom I have spoken a great deal on this subject, also in a broader sense, will know me as someone who likes to talk about this with open ears and eyes. So the answer to the question is: yes, I like to talk about this issue widely. I have also looked at what I can do more concretely, because I like to get to work. The Healthy & Sure platform, which supports VWS and which includes working conditions and working culture, may, as far as I am concerned, have a special focus on discrimination and racism. At least I'm going to talk to them to see how they can give hands and feet to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u7	I love to hear that. Then I have two more requests. First of all, is the Minister prepared to get the facts on racism in care on the table? Because the research we are talking about is an investigation by an organisation that is committed to but also based on anti-discrimination provisions. Can we look specifically at how big the problem is in care and where it occurs? In nursing, in hospital, in home care? Then we can make sure that we get the facts about racism in healthcare on the table. Two: the organisation from which the RTL News message comes has also proposed to set up a code of reporting, such as the domestic violence code, where there are always five steps to go if there is a notification. I understand that the Minister may not be able to answer it now, but is she prepared to see if such a code of conduct can be introduced here and whether it can provide an answer to the problem of racism and discrimination in health care?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u8	I'm also very fond of facts. I was shocked that the article said that the reports seem to be the tip of the iceberg. So I think it certainly requires a further search. For this, I would like to talk to organisations active on this issue, including, for example, inspections, which will undoubtedly also receive reports. That's what I'm gonna do. I will also consider further steps. I can also hear Mr Paternotte suggest a code of conduct. I can't say in advance: he will or he won't. But let's be clear that we really need people in care. I think it's wonderful that people want to work for this. If there are blockages like this, I won't shun any means of getting them out of the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u9	I have heard that the Minister is going to make sure that more frequent reports are made, that she is talking to Black Lives Matter Nederland, that there is research into racism in the care, where it takes place and how big the problem is, and that she is going to consider introducing a code of conduct. In doing so, she has answered all the requests I had brought here. I have not seen that before in Question Time, so thank you very much to the Minister for that. We look forward to an early response. Maybe she can tell us when to expect it. I am thinking, for example, of the general consultation on discrimination, which is likely to be planned in a month and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u10	I'm definitely gonna try to use some of these actions. I have tried to add some subtleties about the form that I did not quite hear in Mr Paternotte's contribution, but I think we are very much in agreement on the direction. I'm gonna see what's the right time to send that information to the Chamber. I'd like to take over the AO's suggestion. If there is an appropriate time earlier, I will of course not let that pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. I see you're pleased with the commitments. I have Mr Van der Staaij, Mrs Van den Berg, Mr Van den Berge and Mr El Yassini. First, Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is right that attention should be paid to this issue. I noticed this morning in the reports of Business News Radio and NOW'91 that over 60% of healthcare personnel in recent months have been affected by aggression and intimidation. So perhaps it is also part of a broader pattern of gross, unacceptable treatment of care workers. If the Secretary of State, pardon the Minister, I have to get used to the conversations she has just promised, it may be good to draw attention to these problems at the same time. It is good to really come up with reports of aggression and intimidation, so that this can be addressed in a targeted way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u13	I can certainly promise that, even in the direction of Mr Van der Staaij. I have a lot of conversations that are about more appreciation. Then we simply cannot have it that there is so much aggression on the other hand. So, as far as I'm concerned, it's a very important theme. There will undoubtedly be explanations, but I do not think that is an excuse. I'd like to talk to them. I read those messages, too. I find them worrying and I want people to be able to practice their profession in the way they chose to. That means pride and head up. And with the love on the basis of which they chose that profession.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u14	I would nevertheless like a more concrete commitment from the Secretary of State on two points. Sorry about the Minister. Now I'd just copy it! First of all, that is the letter that has just been mentioned. We also have a consultation on the labour market in health care. In any case, as a CDA, we would very much like to discuss it further. My second comment concerns the policy of declaration. Mr Van der Staaij referred to the study of NU'91. This shows that 60% is related to aggression. And racism is also a form of aggression to me. But 24% are really physically just being attacked. And what I thought was the worst thing to hear is that that's twice as much as in the countries around us. So would the Minister like to go into that a little further? What's the difference in culture over there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u15	I understand; I also feel a bit like a Secretary of State on this subject. It's really an appropriate subject for me. So I'd like to take that red wire with me. I shall look in the direction of Mr Paternotte. I think that general consultation on the labour market is coming the fastest in the care sector. So if we could get it involved, I'd be happy to. In my view, it is also an appropriate issue when it comes to the labour market. Racism and aggression are indeed both part of psychosocial working conditions and thus also of prime importance in the responsibilities that an employer has towards employees. There are tools for it, too. The Inspectie SZW also oversees this. I am also saying that if people are individually involved in something, they must report it. We make this possible from the public sector for people individually, for example, where they can have their employer report it. This means that they do not have to make their own name and address known, because it happened at work. I am not familiar with the exact explanation for the differences with other countries. That is a subject I will be happy to include in the passage on it in this letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u16	The story of Sameena indeed goes through marrow and bone and does not stand on its own. The Minister is right to say that we as a government set the standard, but of course we also have to look at the future of action. What also struck me in the article on Sameena and others, is that managers in health care institutions often do not see an action perspective and that they feel they are acting shy. I would like to ask the Minister whether she is also prepared to talk to those leaders to see what action plan, what measures are possible. If you only have that ultimate horse medicine taken from care and you do not have an escalation ladder, then it is also difficult to act. So making notifications is of course good, but something has to be done about it. So is the Minister prepared to take up that point as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u17	Sure, because when you come to issues like this with the roughest means, you can destroy all kinds of steps that are in between and where a conversation is still possible. At the same time, I think it's important that you finally have that stick behind the door. Also when combating labour market discrimination in recruitment and selection, you just want to have that conversation with each other first and you want to focus on strengthening, but in the end you want to be able to pass a fine. That's how it goes here. In the end you want to say 'this is not allowed', but of course we are not waiting for situations in which people are deprived of care, because then we have a completely different debate here. The norm is there and is possible at the end of the day, but I think we should also work together on that escalation ladder. I very much agree with that. This means that in the discussions we have with the employers, who have that responsibility under the Arbo Act, they must point out that responsibility, but also the tools and opportunities they have to create a safe working environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u18	The article about Sameena really hit me. My mother worked at the hospital herself for 32 years as a secretary in the lung ward, 20 of which with a headscarf. She has had a lot of nasty and discriminatory comments, including from patients, thrown at her head. She had a supervisor who, just as Mr Van den Berge has just said, stood behind her and defended her and who also told patients that that was unacceptable behaviour. My question to the Minister is how we can ensure that executives limit these kinds of situations and circumstances. Honestly, I'd like to give everyone in the care a supervisor like my mother did. How can the Minister, in line with the answers she has given to my colleague, Mr Van den Berge, look further at how social security can be improved, especially in the health sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u19	I think that Mr El Yassini gives a nice illustration of this issue and the complications, but also of the value it can bring if you work together to ensure safe conditions in the workplace, such as by sharing the personal story. To make it very practical: employers can see how they can see what's going on in their teams via the platforms available, including the SZW Inspection. You can also make it part of the team conversations you have. Colleagues can help each other by not trivializing behavior, but being open about it. There are a lot of ways to do that. The most important thing is that the employer has a responsibility for people to keep telling their stories, but it is also important for us in this Chamber to set a standard with each other, so that people also know their support when they start telling their stories, which I think is very brave.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u20	First Mrs. Van Esch and then Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u21	It is a very justified point that we are making here about racism among healthcare professionals. Mr Paternotte mentioned it very briefly, but I think it is very important to highlight the issue of racism in patients in the care sector. Now that we are dealing with this point, we should also pay attention. In the Netherlands little research has been carried out. In the U.S., studies have actually been carried out on patients who, because of their skin colour, are being treated differently by doctors. This also certainly plays in the Netherlands. I am curious to see how this particular point, which is of course also being discussed here, will be taken up in the light of this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u22	Now I am avenged that I haven't been in this position for years, but I think it's a very important subject. I suggest I get back to it in the letter I promised. I can imagine that there is already a lot to say about it, but I do not have it ready. Sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u23	I also read the article and I found it very sad. I also think it shouldn't be. It is a good thing that the Minister wants to come back to the Chamber and take the article on the 60% of healthcare workers involved in aggression. I therefore ask her to go completely across the board and also to deal with all the incidents of brothers, male nurses, who are refused at the hospital by Muslims, but also Muslim nurses who refuse to wash men. That too should be mentioned once and for all. That too must be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u24	When it comes to issues such as labour market discrimination and racism, I measure it with one measure. I hear very well what Mrs Agema says about that. I will share it with the Chamber in full width through the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u25	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments and then we shall vote.
