ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u1	We will continue with the debate on teachers. I shall first give the floor to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for its first-term input into the debate on teachers, which is an issue for all of us. My colleague Van Engelshoven will answer all questions about teacher training, competences, admission requirements, pabo and so on, in short everything that has to do with higher education and the MBO, about which a single question has been asked. That question was about teaching assistants. I myself will take care of the foundational education. I'll do that in five cubes. First of all, I should like to mention, as I shall just mention, the seriousness of the situation, which many spokesmen have spoken about, also in connection with the letter from the employers last Saturday. Then I will go into the G5 emergency plans. The third block deals with the registration of the teacher shortage, the motion-Kwint c.s. and the way in which we carry it out. The fourth block deals with working conditions and collective agreements. In the last block, I'll answer a few more separate questions. First of all, the seriousness of the situation. Let me start with Daisy Mertens. You may know her. She was one of the world's ten best teachers. Since more than a week she has been an ambassador at national level for teachers in the campaign "working in education, the job of life." In the Algemeen Dagblad there was a wonderful interview with her, in which she highlighted exactly the two sides that are discussed in this debate. On the one hand, the fact that there are concerns, that there are wishes, additional to things that are already happening, and on the other hand, she has paid a great deal of attention to this, which is of course her role as ambassador, the beauty of the profession. It's such a great job and it's also so nice to be a teacher and work with children. She said that both sides could well go together. You can talk about both. She called that "positive realism." I thought that was very nicely put. I always try to keep that between my ears, because sometimes you get sucked up very much on one side of all the problems, which would make you forget that other side. But the other way around you have to be careful: when you talk about the beauty of the profession, you should not forget that there are also daily problems. As far as these daily problems are concerned, we know that the situation is rather worrying. We simply see that there is a shortage of teachers. There are many vacancies, which are sometimes difficult to fill. In addition, when the vacancies are all filled, we also see that if someone falls out, temporarily or sometimes prolonged, due to illness for example, sometimes also due to a happy event like pregnancy, it is almost impossible to organize the replacement properly. This, of course, gives the teachers who still work daily a lot of pressure and a lot of stress. That's heavy. And it also gives rise to concerns about the quality of education. At the time when lessons cannot be taught, children do not receive the teaching and training we would like to give them. We also see that in certain places in the country it can just weigh heavily. The big cities are mentioned, but it's not just there; I'll come back to that later. And sometimes in those big cities it's even about special parts of those big cities, because it's not the same everywhere. This concerns in particular schools in neighbourhoods with a challenging pupil population. We know that. I believe that the employers have rightly drawn attention to this. It was known by the way and we are also working on it, but it is nice that they see that as well. Mr Van Meenen quoted me, but it is the inspector-general of the inspection who once said so. I'm gonna keep putting it out myself. These schools often have extra hard times. That is, of course, the last thing we want to do with each other, because these pupils also have the right to good education from an equal opportunity point of view. We work hard and there is a lot going on, but on the other hand we see that the problems are not getting down completely. Last week you saw the latest CBS figures on the labour market. You have seen that the labour market has only increased again. So there are fewer unemployed. Of course, that is a wonderful thing in itself, but there are also more vacancies, and that does not pass the educational doors. With this kind of dark clouds, even over education, I say 'over education', because this is also the case in other areas too, we must continue to fight completely, I would say almost, for every millimeter. And by that, I mean for every teacher we can hold on to and get b. And now the other side. We see that the approach that started in the previous cabinet period and which fortunately allowed structural money to be added in this cabinet period was then done with a closed wallet: no extra money was chosen well in that sense. There was also clearly that you cannot turn one button, but that you will have to bet on different fronts. We can see that results are also being achieved on these fronts. In the light of the deficits that exist, these kinds of results often fall a little away. Let me say one thing: if the previous cabinet had not started doing so and this cabinet had not pursued it vigorously with money, the problems would have been two or three times greater, so to speak. And it's already and still a pretty big problem. You've been given the labour market figures. You get it every year. You know that I said last year that I find it unacceptable that we always work with figures that are two years old. I have therefore ensured that this year you have been given figures that have been delivered one year faster. The counting date is still 1 October 2018. Mr Kwint quoted the old figures. He hadn't quite taken the latest figures yet. These old figures show that, both in the short term and in the long term, we see a flattening of the estimated deficits that we have seen. By the way, it's always said "if you don't do anything," but we're doing something. What we now know comes from the figures you had in December, but all 2019 revenues have not yet been taken into account. Those are the growth of the pabo, the people we were able to get out of the WW and the huge influx of side-intromers. This will be done in the next labour market estimate. Those are in themselves very nice points of light. We can get energy out of that too, not to say "dude, it's all going well, no problem." No. However, we can draw energy from the fact that it is possible to achieve results when we focus on each other's efforts. Madam President. This also includes the fact that we see that many more teaching assistants want and want to go to the pabo. My colleague will discuss what was on the website. That concerns a question from GroenLinks. I have already promised you before Christmas that any application will be accepted, of course if the conditions are met. We thought it would be 50, but that's 325. That's just what's gonna happen. Mr. Chairman. We are working to bring back many of those who entered the super-statutory WW when there was a surplus. I just told you. Questions have also been asked by the Chamber. That's going really well: we had a 1,000 target, but it's just been achieved by now. So we raised the bar. So we see that many can be guided back and put to work. Some of them, I say to Mr Van Meenen too, I thought he was asking a question about it. I hear Mr Van Meenen wants to do the same himself. These people are being trained for that right now, because that also requires a lot of skills, but that too is going to happen in these weeks. Those are very nice developments. Mr. Chairman. We've been asked what's going on with the summer WW. I have already informed you about this, namely that there is always a certain peak in the influx into the WW. That's about half the influx. It is, by the way, historically low in primary education at the moment. So about half of it happens around the summer. That's not so strange either, because that's when contracts come to an end. It's thought every year. People are leaving. Then the new people will be hired again as of 1 September. We have looked at the number of people who are forced to go temporarily into a situation where, as Mr Heerema said, they have to take a newspaper route or something like that. I also informed you of this in December. So you already have that information. That was say and write nine. Nine too many, I say right away, but we are getting a better grip on this. Mr. Chairman. With regard to the seriousness but also the good aspects, I mention two more things before I go to my next block. What I really like is that we were able to start this joint campaign: "Working in education. The job of life." I think many of you have seen the video. I would say, "Say it and send it forward." That is really very important, because we have to be careful. I have often said that there is going to be a grey veil on education because of all the concerns there are. 'Cause it's just a really nice place to work. The good news, of course, is that the largest influx into education takes place in primary education. That's what we talk about most of all, even when it comes to problems. That doesn't prevent people from taking that step. Let us hope that many more will follow. Moreover, this is a result of the national table, in which all the parties have said: we are going to put our hands on this together. The second thing I like is that there is one information point. The Chamber has asked for this more often. That information is all so shredded. You will have already visited that website, education desk.com. It is great that all the information is available there and that all the parties have cooperated. The Association of Colleges and the VSNU have also done a lot of work for this, together with OCW. People can also get personal advice on how to get to work, what to do, what to ask of them in terms of training and so on. So, finally, there are concerns. I'm not gonna take a gram off that either. We're gonna have to take it seriously. We will also have to continue to work for a solution. If we can find new ways, we have to take them as well. Fortunately, however, we see that the approach that has once begun in the previous cabinet and which has been put forward in this cabinet, invested in money, is really starting to bear fruit. I am sure that we will see this further in the figures in the years to come. That is the seriousness of the situation. Then I'll get right to the emergency plans, the second block I want to say something about. As you know, I myself have asked the big cities in particular to make plans. Anyway, that goes for all the governments in the Netherlands, because if you see that shrinking labour market coming at you, but also the ageing population, which you could have seen coming at you a long time ago, and then you sit where you sit and still do the same things, you get caught up by the problems. Unfortunately, that has happened to many. So plans have to be made. There is also a need for super-administrative cooperation, I say right away. It is also a bright point that this is happening more and more, but it took a lot of pressure. It's beautiful when you have a school. There is someone here, you know, who carries the freedom of education in his heart so to speak, and perhaps literally. I said in an interview that I just didn't have a tattoo of it, but it's not a big deal. But that freedom of education also has a responsibility. You are partly responsible for the provision of education in the region where the children grow up and where you have your school, so you will have to work together. That's what we're seeing more and more, in the G5 "Almere" there is also one of them, but also in many other cities. Mr Van Meenen mentioned sprinkles. I thought he meant a shotgun shot. At least it was something with hail. He asked if it's too much shredded. You know that we have put the big cities in a special position. This is also evident from these contingency plans. This problem is also felt in many other parts of the country. It is also important that they move in order to prevent them from getting into a situation that is as serious as is sometimes visible in the big cities. That's why we're spreading it more widely. I've asked the G5 to come up with plans. By the way, I asked the boards. We've provided support. The boards have finally moved. Plans have been made now. I reported they were coming in January. That's what happened. They were given to me in January. Amsterdam, Rotterdam, The Hague have done so with priority. Almere and Utrecht will follow in April. They're still working on it. I've agreed with them that we will continue to pursue these plans. There's still a lot of work to be done. We've already started that. We support them in that too. Not all parts of the plans are just a matter of money and then we'll figure it out. No, there are also things that don't cost money at all, but they do need to be worked out. We're working hard on that right now. This will have to lead to final agreements in the coming weeks. I have agreed with them that I speak not only with them, but also with the political leaders. All these appointments are already in the agenda for the next few weeks. This isn't a party in everything, I'm just saying. I say that to Mrs van den Hul, who asked a question about this. This is not our ideal. We don't say, "This has to be it now." Perhaps there are things in between that will be more applied in the future. There are also real emergency measures, because you have to do something with each other to ensure the continuity of education. This also includes the fact that they make agreements together. They need to figure out how to deal with these temp agencies. They have to agree that you're not taking teachers away from each other for a year. That just happened. They all have a proper deal with each other. So there's all that kind of arrangement in there. There's also how you manage those side-intromers well with each other. In fact, I made money available as a matter of priority. They asked how that would be covered. I already reported that to the Chamber in a letter. We have allowed a small reprioritisation to take place on two articles, so that this can be used as a matter of priority, because we really give this a lot of priority to each other. Mr. Chairman. I just want to finish. I'm almost done with what I wanted to say about the contingency plans. Of course, it's gonna ask for more money. I also asked them to capitalize on that. The G3 already did. The other two will come. You know those amounts, because they also sent letters about them. In the end, I believe that these plans will be drawn up, to promote the continuity of education, to maintain it and to ensure that we do the right things for the shorter term, which will cost roughly EUR 100 million. My commitment is to ensure that we find those funds. Now it is first necessary that these effects take place further. In the near future, that will have to go further. That is what I wanted to say about the emergency plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u3	I see you standing, Mrs Van den Hul, but I had just sent Mr Van Meenen away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u4	Well, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mrs Van den Hul then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u6	Thank you to Mr Van Meenen for the collegiality. I have another question about the emergency plans. Our concern is that these contingency plans become the new norm. I hear the Minister say that some things are indeed for a shorter time, but that some things will have to be seen as reality for longer. I find that worrying. There are also proposals which are far from ideal and which, as far as we are concerned, are very undesirable. The Minister says that he is watching and that extra money is added, but at the same time knows that that money is not yet structural. I still find these two difficult to reconcile, especially given the cry for help that came from the G4.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u7	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u8	My question to the Minister is: where is the border? What, then, is a shorter duration and what does the Minister find absolutely unacceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u9	That's not cut with a pair of scissors right now. I have already indicated that there are super-administrative agreements on how to deal with temp agencies and that agreements are being made on how to deal with the interim removal of staff where they say: we are not going to do that. These are very nice things that I hope will not suddenly be off the table when the situation is better and everyone will be back in their own territory. You will agree with me, I think. In addition, it is very important to develop precisely how the use of teaching time is to be made. In this context, I would also mention the schools which closed for a week. I've been to see them and they've been to the Ministry. Apart from the fact that it happened in such a week, they did a fantastic job there, because they were trying to see how they could organize it differently. Not only did they decide to organise it in this way because there is now a problem, but there was also evidence that, at this time, where everything changes, also in the labour market and which is probably more structural, it might be time to organise education in a slightly different way, with quality being monitored and problems being tackled. In the coming period, therefore, what is really temporary and what is workable for a longer term will have to be proved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u10	But this does not reassure me at all, because these aldermen do not say for nothing in their letter: 'Unfortunately, the vast majority of unaided occasional money and we cannot solve these structural problems with occasional money'. Well, of course that's the bottleneck we're talking about here and I don't hear the Minister react to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u11	When it comes to these plans, it has simply been stated that this is money that we need for the short term now in order to carry out these plans. That is what I am going for, because I think it is really important, and I also see the need in the towns and cities that something is happening there. That we will also have to consider for the longer term, including the financial resources needed, what is needed for this and how we can use it properly: at your service. That is also what we are working on. We've also put people together to make proposals. This will in one way or another also result in a price tag that must be met. I think there will be plenty of moments, not only in this cabinet period but also in the next one, to discuss this with each other. As you know, I am also carrying out a very large study which will be completed next month, which will also look at the adequacy and efficiency of the resources combined with the quality of the foundational education. This research, too, I think, will give us enough substance to continue this fundamental debate with each other. So short and long term go hand in hand as far as I am concerned and the discussion needs to be conducted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u12	Finally, Mrs van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u13	But those kids can't wait. Those aldermen and those employers are calling the alarm clock for a reason. Now I hear the Minister move it back to another cabinet. In my view, the Minister still does not recognise the seriousness of the problem. The solution must not be found tomorrow or in another cabinet period but now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u14	I believe that Mrs van den Hul does not want to listen to what I am saying, because I did not say at all that we are not going to do anything now. In fact, I have even speeded up money to give a first thought to these plans. In addition, I am going to fight hard for this and I am counting on your support to ensure that we can also find the resources needed for these plans and a little wider, as there is also something needed in the rest of the country, so that we can also work on them in the short term. And we will have to have the fundamental discussion about whatever is structuralally necessary in the longer term. I will come back to that later when it comes to the collective agreement and what I said about it. You quoted me three times, I think, so you are entitled to an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u15	I look forward to that answer. Part of these emergency measures is what the Minister calls the flexibilisation of teaching times and what I call, more domestically, four days a week at school and then the fifth day doing something else. In the first period, I have already mentioned to colleagues that there is a risk that in schools where it is most needed and where children need more than six days of education than four days, these children will eventually be confronted with those four days of school, with extra breakdown or with other forms of non-full education. I asked a few colleagues in the first term: shouldn't you start in those schools with those disadvantaged pupils in order to make extra money available, so that the classes can also be reduced, so that teachers can not disappear there but simply do their job in a decent way? What is the Minister's position on this suggestion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u16	We are very aware that schools with a challenging apprenticeship population in particular continue to be particularly vulnerable. So that is what you see in the plans, because that is what extra effort is required when it comes to the resources that will be available. I think that is perfectly right. Of course, we have had the discussion about smaller classes more often. You know that the figures we have on the size of the group are actually very positive in some sense, because the group sizes are falling. But we also know that that is an average, so that can vary even by group in a school. But that's the good news. We see, also from the labour market figures you have had, that the teacher-student ratio is also falling. So that means there are more teachers available per student. These are also positive developments. But I am convinced that with the use of resources available, you should also be able to reduce those classes a little further. The pressure equipment can be used for this purpose. Additional funds will be made available in the coming year. This can be achieved through the means of education that are lagging behind. A lot of schools do that, by the way. Those schools, in particular, also receive these resources. And from the contingency plans, money will also be made available, which then is a matter of prioritizing what you are committed to. So there's definitely potential.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u17	Yeah, but this is the generic story. There has been a shift, among other things, in the education deficit policy, where you can see that schools with a high number of pupils lagging behind were getting less than they had taken into account. They had to slide. Those were precisely those schools that received less money than they had taken into account. You can draw it on the back of a beer skin that the funding, basic and educational disadvantages, for a school with what the minister calls "a challenging student population" is not sufficient for classes with 21 pupils, for example, to name but a few. Quite apart from the question of whether you can find those teachers, because that is a real problem. But at the moment the funding is not sufficient to organise your education in this way. Then what I ask the Minister to do is to see how you can expand that. How can you ensure that in those schools, if they are not going to get it, they are not going to learn it in a whole lot of other places, too, that children can at least continue to receive at least five days of education?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u18	I have just indicated that there is indeed money available in the context of the educational gap. It is true that in some cities there is some reduction. By the way, we've spread that decline in five years. But there are a lot of other cities where there were just as many disadvantaged students who, because they fell just outside the big city's border, didn't measure up where they're going to get a lot more money. But I did not answer that alone, because that would indeed be annoying for the schools that are going back. There will be additional money for the workload in the coming year. That can be used for that. In the emergency plans extra attention is given to these schools. I just told you that I'm gonna fight hard to make that money available. That can also be used for that. So there will also be additional resources. And then it's a matter of making choices. Do you think it should be put in there? I see your great preference for that. Or do you think there should be more hands in the classroom, teaching assistants or whatever? That is a choice that must be made in the schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u19	Finally, Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u20	Now the Minister puts it down to the school boards. My question was at the heart of the matter. I admit it took a little while before I asked him. Can a school with an above-average number of pupils whose education is lagging behind now pay classes of 21 with the current funding? I doubt that very much, but perhaps the Minister sees it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u21	This also depends on the prioritisation that has been applied within the school itself and how resources are used. It is not a shift to the educational boards, but it is the responsibility of the educational boards with their staff, with parents. Because the GMR often even has the right of assent on many parts; you know that we have even tightened that up, even on this part. It's up to them to make those choices. I do not have to sit on that chair, but I do know that extra money will be available that one could use if one makes that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u22	You're working on Mr. Kwint, aren't you? I think you have arrived at Mr Kwint's motion. Right? Oh, it's an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u23	What motion? Did he file a first-term motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u24	No, no, no. In your answers, you'd come up with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u25	Oh, the registration. I have two short things to say. One is Mr Van Meenen's question as to how the cities are now involved. I have just indicated to you that we are working very intensively with the G5. I have just indicated about the G5 that we are working very intensively with them. I won't say that we're at the table with them every day, but it's not a big deal. I just mention them: Amsterdam, then follow The Hague and Rotterdam, and then Utrecht and Almere come. They're in pole position. We're talking to them all the time. I notice that sometimes they communicate with us through the media. Amsterdam, in particular, sometimes does that. In principle, that can also be done at the table, because we just sit at each other's tables. I have one more comment. This concerns the question about the growth letter: is there any money available for education? The cabinet informed the Chamber, through my colleague from EZK and also through the Minister of Finance, I think, that it is working on plans for the fund, and in particular that investments will be made in three areas: knowledge development, R&D, innovation and infrastructure. Education is a prominent part of these plans as far as the cabinet is concerned. That's also a spearhead. My colleague from EZK, and also the Minister for Finance, I think, will inform the Chamber a little more specifically this first quarter. So that is coming to you quickly, but I believe that two weeks ago there was a wide-ranging debate on this issue. Then there is Mr Kwint's motion. So, I've been looking forward to saying something about that! Because there was some surprise with me. Let me explain to you why. Yes, I was a little reluctant at first. I explained that to you at the time. I knew that it was really very intensive and complicated, and that we would ask a lot of schools. In my wisdom, I thought that we could relieve schools a little, if we did not impose it as an obligation. We also knew that I was accelerating labour market figures. That gives a lot of information, but it is true that that information will only come later. So you don't have a current image. So I've been persuaded by this motion, finally adopted by the Chamber. Then I'm gonna have to do it. And, Madam President, I informed the Chamber about that. So I am truly surprised that I am being blamed for not carrying out a motion. I explained to you in November, at the last major conference on teachers, how I intended to carry out the motion. I said: I want to do this mainly through the already existing website teacher deficitisnu.nl. A teacher is a designer and administrator. I've looked back on that report. I explained how I was gonna do it. The first one that interrupted me afterwards was Mr Kwint, but that was on another subject. Anyway, that was the moment I explained how I dealt with that motion. I also said at the time: I will come up with the further effects in December. The December letter states exactly how I am now carrying out the motion. Because it was no longer mentioned in the VAO, I have seen it as an encouragement to continue on that road. So we talked to the manager of the website. That website was really well-intentioned. I appreciate that very much. But that website was as leaky as a basket. Anyone who went to google and could find BRIN numbers from schools, and you did that in a minute, could fill it out like that. And if replacement isn't arranged or a teacher shortage is reported, and a day later the teacher is back, so to speak, and you don't sign it off, you're just sitting in those numbers. So the figures were not up-to-date, just to put it very carefully. We also saw that only about 5% of schools contributed to this. So we have worked very hard in recent weeks to make sure that this site can actually function in such a way that we know that it is reliable figures. I can tell you we're almost done. In March, the website can then, in the way we think it is working, function. So I'll read again what's on that sign. I understand that AOb brings that to me through Mr Kwint, because they are never at our table again. But we got it anyway. But I'm just running it, and Mr. Kwint should have known that. I hope he will come back to it in the second term, because this is a thing of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u26	This is a little entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u27	You're working hard with each other, and you're doing great, and we're doing two more things, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u28	Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u29	I'm gonna go ahead with those labour market surveys. So I speeded it up. So that gives very good information. You get very thick reports, in detail you are up to date, with beautiful graphs. You have been going through them all for this debate, I have noticed. The second is that we have asked the PO Council for research, particularly for primary education. But we are also going to do so for secondary education, and that question has also been asked. We have asked the PO Council to simply conduct representative research, starting in the big cities, and to produce up-to-date figures. This will enable us to get even more control over what is going on and what we need to do with vacancies and with replacement problems. That is what the motion is about, Madam President! I lost it. That helps again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u30	I welcome the enthusiasm with which the Minister responds. I asked: when is this site finally online? We have now received an answer. But, yes, the Minister can't blame me if I make a motion in June, I'll in the meantime inform you when that site will be online. Of course, the security and design of a website created by a teacher who does something about it will not meet the standards we require from a government website. That's pretty weedy. That is precisely why, as a Chamber, we have said: go do it yourself. And I'm okay with that. If it's there next month, I'm happy. The Minister is right to say that only 5% of the schools participated. Do we have a guarantee that the categories on the website, such as failure and unauthorized teachers, will be mapped from the moment the government takes charge of this? Do we have a guarantee that schools will actually report that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u31	That's a little thin from Mr. Kwint. I put it to him in November to do it this way. I have seen it as an encouragement to go further in that regard. I reported on that in December. Mr Kwint indicated in his first term: all this is not so difficult; just send an e-mail. Well, it's really a lot more complex. Indeed, we have now taken responsibility. We have made sure that that website is firmer and that it can also work. Do we have a guarantee that everyone will fill that out? The answer is no. I hope so. We will, of course, encourage that. I hope you will, too. I hope we'll be well above that 5%. 'Cause in the end, people have to do it, don't they? Those are the same people I thought at first: I need to relieve them. I hope they're gonna pick this up so we can get a good look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u32	Now everything's getting mixed up. That one e-mail was in the context of bureaucracy. That was in the context of the argument that the Minister used earlier against the proposal. He said: we already ask so many school leaders; we cannot ask them to send one e-mail. That wasn't about the complexity of building a site. The moment the site is online, I will bring it to everyone's attention. But the question remains: why do we make it a voluntary choice for school boards to indicate whether and how many teachers they lack? It is quite natural that at this time we simply want to have up-to-date, reliable data.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u33	Mr Kwint is a co-legislator. As long as we have not included this in the law as a hard demand, we are indeed dependent on the willingness of schools to do so. Even if it is a tough demand, you sometimes have to wait and see if they are doing it. But then we have the opportunity to intervene and to impose sanctions. It's as simple as that. I do hope that now that we have settled this in this way, we will use it. But it will indeed depend on the willingness of the schools to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u34	I would like to add my voice to Mr Kwint on this point. I believe that the Minister is now crossing a very fundamental point very easily. That is the question: who is responsible for identifying the shortage of teachers? I believe that the Minister is now pretending that responsibility lies with the schools. But the responsibility lies primarily with the government, which is responsible for the system. And that system responsibility implies, in times of a teacher shortage, that you need to know where and how that deficit falls.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u35	Firstly, through our labour market studies we are trying to get a look at this. I keep giving you the information about that. I accelerated that, too. Indeed, I did not think it acceptable that it should remain so long and that we would actually be working with outdated information. The second is that we have asked the PO Council to conduct those investigations in order to obtain that information. For starters, they do that in the G5 cities. The third is that I simply submitted the suggestion to use this website to you in November. That was before I started working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u36	You've said that twice or three times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u37	Yeah, but they're asking again. I did submit it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u38	This has changed enough. I'd like to ask you to move on to the next topic. Those are the terms of employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u39	If I could just take a few more questions that go with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u40	Well, let's go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u41	But they can also be used in terms of working conditions. That's not a problem. Mr. Chairman. Questions have been asked about working conditions. Moreover, I have answered a number of Parliamentary questions in recent days, which were also relevant. I would like to refer in particular to the answers to the questions put by Mrs van den Hul, who were very clear and intrusive, such as: what is the situation and how much money do the teachers receive? After all, we have used amounts that raise quite a few questions, particularly when it comes to weighted averages. I can tell you that the answers we have given are correct. It really is. When it comes to rewards, the weighted average is €4,400 for primary education. Because all teachers in primary education as well as support staff and school leaders will receive additional contributions to their salary next week, which has already increased by 4.5% last month, that amount will increase even further, even by more than €2,000 if you have a full-time relationship. So these are very nice developments with regard to teachers' salaries. I hope we can establish this with each other. I do not think it is good for the teachers if there is always discussion about whether it is true or not. This is really hard information. Working with a reward is also very common. That has been the way in which, for example, a modal income is recorded, even with the CBS, for years and years. The fact that we do that in education is not to hide something or to make it more beautiful. No, that's just how it works. I hope that the Chamber will now accept these figures. In addition, there are requests for additional things. I say: at your service; I understand. I'll say something about it myself later. But these are just the numbers they apply. Madam President. When it comes to working conditions, questions have also been asked about collective agreements, the developments in collective agreements and statements that I made in an interview in De Telegraaf. You know that I have always been very reluctant to talk too much about far in the future. I do that sometimes on subjects. Then it is often less politically sensitive and then you can put dots on the horizon. On this subject, I have always been reluctant because I know that it makes a lot of difference. But I notice that restraint has also caused some irritation, because it seemed like I didn't like it. I have indeed chosen once to emphasize the other side, namely that I understand the fact that you, if you are in the p.o. works or works in the vo and you really do the same thing, just can say that they are equivalent functions, but that then, especially if you work at a school a little longer in the p.o., there really is a difference with respect to someone who has the same function in the vo. I see a solution to that. The social partners have never chosen this solution, but it has indeed already been mentioned in the Chamber by the CDA. It has even described in detail how it could be done. The social partners who, as you know, are responsible for collective agreements have never done so themselves, but a very chic solution could indeed be to work towards a single collective agreement. Then you finally have the situation that all are in one collective agreement and that there is one function house. If you really do the same work, even though you're in the p.o. Whether in vo, you are about the same age and you work in education for the same length of time, you would also receive the same reward. But as long as you hold two collective agreements, which are also re-entered at different times with all kinds of different conditions, because behind both the collective agreements are complete telephone books with all kinds of regulations, of course you will not get there. That's why I noticed that, too. However, I have immediately indicated that this cabinet has taken a significant step in terms of its financial implications. It will really have to be decided in a subsequent period or in subsequent periods, depending on political decision-making. During this period, of course, the debate that is currently taking place has come to the fore, but I believe that this problem could then be resolved. That's a dot on the horizon I find attractive. I am going to talk to the social partners about this, and I will ask them whether they agree. I speak to them regularly, of course. That is my answer to Mr Van Meenen's question: what are you going to do? I am curious to see how this is going to develop, because I think that is the best thing that could be done by now, so to speak, but that is up to them. How much does that cost? Also a question. I answered that question in writing this week, so you already have all that information, but I will repeat the answer. We've been able to determine the following with each other. When you talk about salary, you get to the 640 million euros. When you talk about reward, there is a little more to it and we talk about an amount of EUR 765 million that needs to be made available in order to get it all together. Those are huge amounts of money. I see that there will not be any in this cabinet period either, but who knows what will happen in the future, especially if all these beautiful coalitions are forged as they were in the first term. Then we'd like to be surprised by that time. In this calculation we used the collective agreement concluded before 2020 in the p.o. And we assume that there will also be a slight increase in wages, because, of course, there is still a collective agreement to be concluded there. But these are the sums that I have rounded up so that you can make your profit, if only for your election programs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u42	Have you answered all the questions relating to the conditions of employment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u43	Yes. I've been through everything about the collective agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u44	Okay, I'll go see Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u45	Mr President, thank you. My party is also in favour of a single collective agreement. That seems to me to be a good thing, but I would ask the Minister if he agrees with me that turning into a single collective agreement in itself does not mean that salaries are equal. I mean, I've also been in the same collective agreement as the janitor and other people, and yet people earned different salaries. It sounds a bit like "I don't want to say "a flight" "but nevertheless as a detour along what is ultimately the answer, namely: does the Minister now think that this gap should be closed, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u46	It's not a detour. I have just indicated that precisely because of these different collective agreements these differences continue to arise. Sometimes they get bigger, then a little smaller, depending on what happens in one place or another. If you have one collective agreement and make job descriptions for which it doesn't matter whether you're in the p.o. In the final analysis, it is important that the differences that we now see between the two collective agreements should be closed in the financial sense. And the very last thing, if Mr Van Meenen means that, of course, there is a driver that you scale in a certain place and then we assume that the job descriptions are also so clear that everyone gets to the level that fits the job description and on which the person in question does his job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u47	Okay, so we'll agree on that. Of course, it helps very much as an instrument to have one collective agreement. Then you can put people in one bowl when they're in the p.o. or work in a particular function. But apparently the Minister also thinks that money is needed to make it happen, because otherwise you can have one collective agreement, but you don't have the money to pay it. I understand the Minister doesn't say "I think so, and I'm gonna take care of it tomorrow," but does the Minister think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u48	I have also indicated that I will not take care of this tomorrow, because it is not agreed for this cabinet period. I'm really impressed by the steps we've taken. I mean, it wasn't three years, as Mr Bishop here said, it was two years. In two years' time 14% increase in salary, these are unprecedented steps. This cabinet did that! I'm truly proud of that. That further steps need to be taken and that, if you are going to do so, that is the consequence: yes, I agree, but not on behalf of this cabinet. We're not gonna settle that in this cabinet period. It just can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u49	The Minister continues to move the dot on the horizon further than I think is necessary. I have just made a very concrete suggestion on how we could start, which I have not yet heard the Minister react to. I said that we would ask the mediator who managed to get the collective bargaining agreement back on track after an impasse, to take stock of what is needed to take those steps. Does the Minister agree with us that that would be a workable scenario towards the first steps?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u50	Mrs van den Hul knows my great warmth for the mediator who has been at work. I replied yesterday in the parliamentary questions that she did an excellent job, but that was also necessary in order to make this happen. In this situation, I think it is far too premature to say that a mediator should be working already. I have not yet had a conversation with the social partners whether or not they want to. I've heard from some people or read in the papers that they think this is a good idea. We're gonna see that, but it's up to them first. Otherwise, it would be almost a motion of censure, as if we did not think they would make it. Let them do it first. By the way, I was very clear in that interview that you read so well. When it comes to money, it's not for this cabinet period, it's for the next one. The first steps can indeed be taken, just with the papers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u51	We continue to disagree on the steps that can already be taken and the Minister's responsibilities in doing so. That's obvious. I still want to draw that horizon closer. I believe that the mediator can play an important role in this, together, of course, with the social partners. I am sure we will be able to talk about this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u52	We're gonna see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u53	I have a comment and a question. I understand that this is the conclusion of the collective agreement section. First, my comment. I think and I hope the Minister does not mean this, but he has already said a number of times in his reply that documents have been sent to the Chamber and that questions have recently been answered. I had the feeling that it wasn't fully understood that we couldn't have read everything right away. The Minister himself was a Member of Parliament. We do not have 3,000 officials like the Minister. We have a staff member and a half. Last Monday we had a major legislative consultation. We can't read everything at the last minute. I think it is perfectly normal that we should be able to ask questions here, even though Parliamentary questions have recently been answered. I'd like to make that point. My question is about the collective agreement. I have spoken about tailor-made collective agreements, especially for regions and better performing teachers. The Minister hasn't taken that up yet. I was wondering if he'd still want to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u54	First of all, I understand that not everything can always be read. I referred to that letter because it is all very clearly stated, in particular the working conditions and the money. I'd like us to agree that these are the amounts. It's not nice that every time the impression is given that it wouldn't be right. These kinds of calculations have been made as we always do. They're fine amounts. It's okay to say that to each other. Then the customization in the collective agreement. As you know, responsibility is decentralised to the social partners. Eventually, it's up to them. I notice that they are increasingly choosing this approach. I can never do more in my position than point out in their direction that it is important that attention is paid to it. That is actually what it is a bit when it comes to our position around these collective agreements. We should not sit in the chair of the collective bargaining partners. I think some of those partners are even listening at the moment. Politics, of course, always has the right to give wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u55	For example, we have done something like this in the case of the super-statutory regime. We found some of that, too. I think the Minister's answer in that regard may be a little too cautious. He himself found something in the interview with De Telegraaf because the moment was there to indicate what he wanted to do with those salaries. I can imagine the Minister here simply answering the question of how he feels about the opportunity to provide customised collective agreements. This would enable us to do something extra for teachers in special places.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u56	Perhaps I can pick this up in relation to a question from Mr Van Meenen. It wasn't about the collective agreement, it was about the covenant that was signed. That was quite generic indeed. The moment you see that a particular problem is very specific in a particular environment, it is good to pay attention to it in the agreements you make, whether that is a collective agreement or a covenant. I note that the parties on the table, the employers and the workers, sometimes find it difficult to take that step. As far as the covenant is concerned, this has finally become it. I was glad that all parties agreed that this had to be it, not knowing that two days later everything was going to be on its own. Anyway, I've been through that and hopefully so have you. Now you see that there must be additional contingency plans. That could have been arranged in the covenant, for example. I agree with you in that regard. Then the 16.5 million structural for the vso. I thought there was also a question asked about it, which was also in the covenant. That money burns in my hand, I'm telling you. It is now up to the social partners to ensure that it ends up in the right place. I also note that it is February 19th, so we are already in this calendar year. But it was available from January 1st. I've asked them again this week to make sure they're gonna take care of it now, that they're gonna agree on it. This money is available. There is structural money for that diploma-oriented flow in the vso. You fought for it, too. It was the money they asked me for in a letter of fire for the summer. Now it's there; it would be nice if it would just go towards the people. So I hope that will happen soon. Then the question was asked as to why certain scales suddenly got very much up in the vo. We have gone very hard to find exactly where that is. But that is not something that specifically applies to the Vo. It is a much larger set of salary developments that may also include some of the vo, but that is not a figure that can be linked one-on-one to the vo. It's not like that would suddenly be such a leap. I wouldn't know where they'd have to pay for that, because, as you know, there wasn't, unlike the po, a lot of extra money going there. Mr. Chairman. I come to the last category, the other questions. Mr Van der Molen has asked: what inspiration is being taken out of care? I can tell you that's a lot. We're in close contact. We have also taken the experience of care into account when dealing with the regions. Also working with a blower we have more or less copied from care. It's not exactly comparable, but we're doing the same thing. So we are indeed in the process of taking care of that covering approach. We are also in close contact with each other to make sure that we can learn from each other, because they can also learn from us from time to time. Mr. Chairman. Mr Kwint asked about the temporary employment agencies. I have informed you that we are discussing this with both the Councils and the school boards. I'm slowly but surely seeing the statement you made come through. Just look at the emergency plans, which I have just mentioned, about the temporary employment agencies. There are even schools that have now agreed not to do it anymore; see public education in Amsterdam. Here I see slow but certainly a kind of turnaround, in which one also realizes: we have to do it together. 'Cause if there's only one person who's gonna do it, then it just can't. We really need to hang out in this together. I'm glad that happens. Mr. Chairman. With regard to GroenLinks' question about the number of temporary contracts that have increased, I say the following. This was in the period from October 2017 to October 2018, and this is due in particular to the fact that it was then the first tranche of the work pressure equipment. And it's very often, when you attract new people, it's common to first give a temporary contract, which can then become a permanent contract. The new figures will therefore have to tell us whether this is going to change. The second point is that you have been able to see from the labour market figures that, fortunately, more and more fixed contracts are being awarded. In the Po, the proportion of fixed contracts among teachers has risen considerably: from 6% to 22% in five years. And the prospect of a fixed contract, which people also get, has risen from 20% to 60%. So that's where we really see some nice changes happening. But we're keeping our finger on the pulse with regard to those temporary contracts that are linked to the work pressure equipment. Then there was a question from Mr Heerema about the PNIL, i.e. staff not employed. I have indeed reported that we do not have a clear view of this, because we are working on the basis of the data provided to us. Actually, we get a kind of collection tray of everything that goes with it wrapped in a figure, but then you don't know exactly what teachers are now. That is why we have now started the additional research, which will run in 2020. I will, of course, inform you about this, if you would like to know more about it. But your question is: what are their arguments for doing that? We're just asking how many teachers they are. We should, in a manner of speaking, ask per PNIL, to put it that way. That is, of course, not included in this study. I will see how we can perhaps get a little more insight into that, but that is not this investigation in any case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u57	Did you answer all the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u58	Almost.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u59	How many questions do you have left?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u60	I've got a little pile here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u61	And how big is that little pile?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u62	A leaf or five, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u63	Then I'm going to see Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u64	That's good, because my memory's been tested enough times. I am, of course, glad to hear that there is movement in countering the great role of temporary employment agencies. But in my term I had asked the Minister a very specific question: can we not go to maximum rates above the standard wage you pay a lecturer, which you can spend on a temp? The reason for this is that companies like Monday® that just really parasitize about the teacher shortage, sometimes up to 180%, charge 190% of the usual costs for a teacher. Some of them go extra to the teacher, because of course he doesn't have a pension structure and all that, and some of them just go into the pockets of a temp agency. I welcome all the initiatives that are being taken to keep those figures at a distance together, but could we not even look at whether we can go to a maximum percentage to prevent education millions from leaking out in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u65	If we impose this as a requirement on schools, we must also explicitly include it in a legal requirement, as you know. That's not just a-two-three setup. It is therefore a question of what amount you should be asking and what you are going to come up with. Basically everything can be done, but then we have to lay it down in legislation and regulations, and that takes a lot of time. We are now trying to prevent these kinds of companies from getting any more ground, to say it flat. That's the road we took. I think it's more effective. In the major cities, where it plays in particular, it is already being dealt with in this way. We see the big profit there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u66	Yeah, part of it you see movement there. But if you even put on your LinkedIn that you're halfway through your pabo, you'll already get messages from these companies to be hired. Then you don't even have to finish your education, regardless of what else you think of that. Of course, everything that comes from the bottom is fantastic. I'm not asking instead of what happens now. I ask for it to be added, for the simple reason that I am still receiving a lot of messages from all those teachers who are being hunted. In the end, it is simply educational money that is not spent in the way we would like it to be. Whether or not it should be in a law. If necessary, I do not like to say it, but a covenant with school boards or something should be concluded or another agreement should be made which will enable us to tighten up these requirements. Because it's still a big problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u67	Of course, we can never stop chasing teachers through this kind of LinkedIn messages or whatever. That's just gonna keep happening, I guess. You may be able to stop it if it is clear that these teachers themselves will not get to work in the schools in that way. It'll dry up. I think that's really the right approach. Again, in laws and regulations you can arrange everything, just as much depending on whether there are majorities for it, but I really think this is a more effective route. But I will talk to the Council again about this to hear from them whether they have the impression that the pressure is really getting rid of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u68	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u69	Very briefly. If the Minister is willing to put it there, I will not table a motion on this. Just put that suggestion for that percentage there. If they say that they have not been helped, then I'm going to think again about whether I think that's a sufficient argument, but we're going to talk about that another time. If the Minister says he's taking that suggestion for such a percentage concretely, it'll save it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u70	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u71	Then I think I have three more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u72	There was a comment by Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u73	I just promised I'd pick this up and discuss it. I thought, given the time, I won't repeat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u74	Very good. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u75	I also welcome this commitment. My question concerns temporary contacts. Did I hear correctly that the Minister said that the number of fixed contracts went from 6% to 20% or 22% in primary education? I hope I misunderstood him, but at least I heard that. That still seems very low to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u76	Those who start get a fixed contract much faster. That is what we see in the percentages. That's just really good news. That they don't all get a permanent contract when they start, I guess we get it a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u77	That's nice. I was wondering when the new figures would come to us. I am very curious to see whether we can actually see that the number of temporary contracts has temporarily increased. I'm very curious about the new figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u78	I think before the summer. I see a nodding head in the civil servants' bank. I had it right in my head: they'll be here before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u79	Otherwise you will come back to that in the second term. And now a little bit towards a rounding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u80	Mr President, I'm almost done. I understand that you... Mr Van Raan has asked a lot of questions about sponsorship and how we should deal with it. He has also tabled motions on this subject. He also asked about the curriculum review we are discussing on 5 March. I also assume that we will have a general discussion on this sponsoring. That's not exactly on the agenda. I did send the room the information. I am always prepared to discuss this further. Otherwise, a written round might be... Well, I don't really want to give you any ideas. Then my people have to work it all out, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u81	Well, you did, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u82	But I think it's a very little bit of a weird duck when we're talking about this subject today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u83	But that's what Mr Van Raan does all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u84	I would like to respond to that, but we have to note here that the Minister dismissed the implementation of a motion adopted broadly in the House of Representatives with the same reasoning he gave when he rejected that motion. He does not seem to me to be satisfied as a Chamber. I'm just looking for the best way to discuss that. Maybe the Minister or the President has another tip for that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u85	Not the minister, we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u86	... but it can't be that the Minister actually says: I'm just not doing it, because I don't see any other reason...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u87	I don't think that's the explanation I gave. Perhaps there is a difference of opinion as to whether this is the outcome of the motion. It is up to the Chamber itself to discuss that with me...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u88	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u89	... at the moments the Chamber considers appropriate. Then I'll be like laundry in the hands of the Chamber and then I'll come.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u90	I understand that, Mr. Chairman. I see you're incredibly insistent. We have a certain time, I understand, but when do we do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u91	No, that's not up to the Minister. That's up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u92	I'm asking you, Mr. Chairman. You want to hurry as soon as possible; you do not want us to talk about it now. So when are we gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u93	If you want to raise a subject, you know very well how to do it. After all, I see you almost every day in the organisation of work asking for a debate or a letter. That's the first thing. Secondly, you can always come back to that in committee. I'm not on the Education Committee, but colleagues can do the same. Otherwise, you'll have to ask what you want to ask. Although I am monitoring the planning, everyone will have the opportunity to express their or their views.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u94	Thank you. Well, I'd like to do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u95	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u96	It concerns the motion on the role which the inspection may play in the provision of educational material. Firstly, the Minister writes that the school boards themselves are there and that there is also a participation council. But it has been shown that they can pay too little attention to this. Secondly, the Minister writes about what the inspection does and about the laws and regulations. He then concludes by saying that a further exploration of a possible supervisory role of the inspection is unnecessary in his view. Again, that was exactly the reason for him to discourage the motion, which was adopted after that. So that's a very skinny...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u97	I gave this answer on the basis of the powers and possibilities of the inspection. I must, of course, also remain within the framework of the law and also within the framework of scrutiny that we set together for inspection, including in this area. I have pointed out the role of internal supervision and the role of participation in these matters. This is in line with current legislation and regulations. If Mr Van Raan wants all kinds of things to be changed in the legislation and in the review framework, then of course we have a different debate. That can always be fed. That's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u98	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u99	Finally, it has become clear today that research shows that companies do have a major undesirable influence. That's what I started my speech with. That's a big and global investigation. In addition, the new covenant explicitly states that cooperation with a sponsor should promote a healthy lifestyle and contribute to the future of children, while it just turns out that this does not happen at all in cooperation with these companies. The request is to consider what can be done about it. Then I'll ask the Minister to take another look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u100	I said what I wanted to say. Mr Bishop spoke about the teacher's fair and the approach to the side-influx. This is in line with an amendment to the House which Mr Bishop himself supported. It is not right that money is suddenly being taken away from the purpose for which it was intended. It also has to do with underexhaustment. You know how it works in under-exhaustment: if you notice at the end of the year that something has not been used, it goes to the treasury. Now we could save it for education and also use it in a good way. That is how this amendment should be seen. I hope teachers will be aware of this, because it would indeed be annoying if their enthusiasm disappeared because they were misguided by this kind of explanation, which is not correct. Then Mr Bishop also asked for work after the AOW age and the use of the silent reserve. As far as we're concerned, this is a really good route. We are also working to further promote this through the organisations, for example, think of Verus. We also see that there are more and more teachers who work or are available as a substitute after reaching the AOW age and sometimes even until very old age. That is a growing number that can be deployed. We are very grateful to them for that. Sometimes even someone in their 80s gets in between. Deep respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u101	Those are the crooked cracks. That's what I think it's called. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u102	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u103	Let me turn to the first point. Of course, the Minister is right, but I think it is wise to explain this in this way in communication too. Because in the field, it lands very wrong. It is about under-exhaustment, but the money allocated to education in this way is simply being used to the full. I think that might help.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u104	Sure. It is good if the Chamber also plays its part in this, because it was an amendment from the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. One more question remains, about the workload in vo and the 150 million. We are talking to them about this in order to see if we can get that to the schools in a good way. Of course, the way in which this is done in the p.o. is looked at with a slanted eye. It's happening. That was a question from Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u105	Mr Heerema also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u106	In part of my contribution I have mentioned salaries in vo. I am truly surprised that the number of people earning more than €9,000 gross per month has increased in eight years from 2,500 to 5,500 and that the number of employees earning between €6,000 and €9,000 per month has increased from 12,500 to 30,000. That's more than the maximum teacher's salary. So this is about employees who are not teachers and about money that I don't think goes into class. I am very interested in the argument behind these figures. If that cannot be done orally, I would like to have it in writing, but I think we have something here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u107	I just answered that. We cannot quite accurately trace that all of this is vo. So we are also talking to the Home Office to see which group is behind these increases. If Mr Heerema says he wants it on paper, I will send it to him in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u108	I'd love to. When can we get that? Does the Minister have any insight into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u109	As soon as possible. If that's still possible this week, that would be nice. Otherwise, it might be the first week after the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u110	Well, well, well. That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u111	Maybe even in the recess. It could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u112	Yes. Mrs Westerveld, a question that hasn't been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u113	Yes. I've asked some questions about teaching assistants.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u114	About the teaching assistants. You asked two questions. I answered one of them. The other will answer my colleague later. I've already reported that. That question was about what was on the website and the like. Mrs Van Engelshoven will do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u115	I have made a general point about a number of motions. I would like a more concrete response to one of them. A long time ago, together with Mr Kwint, I asked whether it was possible to map how many percent of people and managers are going to function and how much percent to the classroom. I looked at the OCW website: what happened? There is a reference to a letter, but there is nothing in that letter. I understand that the Minister may not be able to say what exactly has been done with it either, but I would very much like to have a written feedback on what has been done with this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u116	I'm gonna go see if I can get back to that in the second term. You received a huge annex to the December letter. I know, however, that we have all been passing through all the motions in that annex.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u117	You'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u118	If it is in there and Mrs Westerveld is not satisfied with the answer, then I will try to get back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u119	I think there are still a lot of questions left, at least from me. My question about the aldermen. They suggest that the deficit in the G5 is much greater than the Minister indicates. The Minister hasn't said anything about that yet. That's one. Then there is the living situation and the agreements between the municipality of Amsterdam, the housing corporations and tenant organisations about making rentals and secondary homes available to teachers. How does that relate to the call of Provincial States to give them to status holders? I miss that. In addition, everyone always says that the PVV does not have any solutions, but there is not even talk about this full-time bonus. The Council of State has said a few things about it. It couldn't be legal, but my appeal is to think outside of those regular frameworks. Let's get together and see if we can do it. That's the full-time bonus. What does the Minister think of a half-hour extension of the average working week of 28 hours? That's 760 FTE. These are all solutions from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u120	Then thank you for your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u121	And then the last question, again, about the ear tags of the lumpsum. This brings a great deal of direction to the Minister and to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u122	A number of points have been mentioned in Mr Beertema's contribution, but they were not put directly in the form of a question. That's the first thing. I'm gonna walk by them a little bit. On the first question: I did not use the word 'alderman', but I explained how the figures came about. We accelerated those labour market figures for a year. The counting date is October 2018. We are now engaged in an additional study with the big cities to get a clearer picture. So we're working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u123	That was one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u124	Then with regard to the living situation. That is, of course, something that should take place at municipal level. I see that some municipalities are also trying to involve this in the educational plans they are making available and a number of homes. But you should not blame me for not taking the housing situation in municipalities into my answer. That's not the place I'm supposed to be. I agree with Mr Beertema that it is sometimes part of the problem and perhaps also part of the solution. Then, with regard to full-time employment. As a result of an earlier debate in which your replacement has brought this about, I have indicated the framework within which we can do so. Of course we can always change that, but I have to give you an answer from law and regulation to what is or is not possible. Then the ear tags of the lumpsum. We're gonna talk about the funding at another time. I hope so, because the bill is in the Chamber. Then you will know for yourself that there is a lack of clarity in the Chamber on this issue. The cabinet has made other proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u125	One question, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u126	I asked another question about speeding up the allocation of support in the classroom, as part of the reduction of workload in appropriate education. Teachers say that sometimes it takes six months to a year for them to get support. Mrs Westerveld and I have made a proposal to see where you can speed that up. I had asked about the state of affairs on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u127	Does Mr Kwint mean the discussion we have had on basic provision and speed up clarification? That was also the subject of a Parliamentary motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u128	No?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u129	No, we're gonna do that in the evaluation appropriate education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u130	I was just about to say I'm working it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u131	It's all very well for that. But there is also a specific proposal on support and extra hands in the classroom for care students. That transit procedure is hugely long. It can take six months to a year, while a teacher knows within ten minutes that a student needs some extra support. But then he has to report for six months and with the partnership...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u132	I shall come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u133	No problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u134	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science. Excuse me. Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u135	Thank you, Mr President. I will deal in particular with teacher training, but also with a number of questions about the part-time factor, because I can combine my position as Minister of Education with that of Emancipation. Mr. Chairman. I'll start teacher training. If we want to tackle the shortage of teachers now and in the future, then these teacher training courses are of course very important. Fortunately, we are seeing more and more influx into the pabo. The influx is also becoming increasingly diverse, not only from full-time students entering at the age of 17 or 18, but also increasingly from part-time students and side-intromers. That also requires a lot of training. I have been working lately to take a look at these pabo's as much as possible, to sit in the classroom and talk to full-time students, part-time students and side-intromers, to see if what we do in these courses meets the expectations, needs and wishes of those people who are passionate about education. I'm having conversations with part-timers there, with side-instromers. Because it's important that we keep people in education once they're in, I've hired two young teachers as my buddies. I'm just gonna check on them once every six weeks. I'll talk to them and their team, too. How's it going now? What about the counseling? What are you bumping into? Training together in the school is of great importance. We see, for example, that the large influx of part-time workers and side-intromers poses new challenges for training. You must imagine that there were dozens of them a few years ago. Now there's hundreds of them. Mr Van der Molen was, of course, quite right when he found that the training courses were not yet fully organized. We're gonna talk to the teachers' schools about that. I'm also going to set up an emergency team, along with the Association of Colleges, the VSNU and my own people. If, for example, they send signals and say that they run into something, that the training does not fit well with the fact that they enter education as adults and already take a lot of knowledge and experience, then the emergency team will pick it up as soon as possible and try to get that into education. I will come back to that later. Mr. Chairman. There were also a number of questions about the system of powers. We have discussed this before in the context of the opinion of the Education Council, which is a wide-ranging job for teachers. Mr Slob and I want to work on a future-proof system of competences that is well suited to the needs in education for different types of pupils and with continuous learning lines, but also responds to needs in teachers and teachers on a developmental perspective, on a career perspective. It is quite an operation to look at what such a system of powers should look like. On the one hand, you want to do something about the very, very boarded-up system we have now. On the other hand, you also want to prevent a kind of proliferation of powers. That's gonna take a good look. Paul Zevenbergen is chairman of that committee. He has set up a fine committee in which the various sections of education are well represented. Already before the summer we expect a first picture of them as to what it might look like. Before the end of the year we expect a more complete picture. We also want to make sure that we can take steps so that 21-22 things can be implemented by the school year. Then we can decide on this next year. You can see that there is a great need on all sides. We are working hard on that right now. In this context, the Chamber has been calling for attention to be paid to the position of the young child for some time. Motions have now been tabled on this matter. This is also mentioned in the coalition agreement. Part of the Chamber has asked to make a cut in the pabo. That is quite a change in the system, which would also require legal changes in the system of powers. You shouldn't do such a thing too lightly. What do we see happening on the pabos right now? We are seeing more and more attention, which is actually very good for continuous learning lines in primary school. In the course, but also in schools and by teachers, it is recognized that wherever you teach at primary school, it is important that you have an insight into how such a continuous learning line works. We are seeing a tendency to extend these continuous lines, for example, in the context of the integrated child centres, including the very young children, toddlers, and on the other hand to the 10-14 schools, the secondary education system. A new hard cut counteracts that movement and is actually the opposite of that. At the same time we see a strengthening of specializations on the pabo, which is also good. We can see now that you can do a specialization for the young child on all pabos. The Young Child Knowledge Network also strengthens this and is working on it. For some students, the most attractive perspective is to work for that young child. When I was recently at the Marnix Academy, those preferences were almost equally divided among men and women. So let's not say: that's typical for men or typical for women. No, that just has to do with personal preferences. I imagine that's how you get your preferences. We must therefore avoid any misunderstandings. For example, there is no place like this anymore. I would like to stress that there is no place so far as to have to do that young child's stage in your first year. There's no need for that anywhere. So let's not keep that fable in the world either. This young child placement can therefore also be used in later years and can therefore also consist of a part-time placement in the third grade. That too is a young child's stage. Sometimes the picture is sketched that in such a young child's stage you have to wipe buttocks and entertain younger children. That's not the right picture. There too, you are fully engaged in the development of young children in a continuous learning line. It's incredibly important. If you look at all this together, then you come to the conclusion that it is not wise to make a quick cut in the pabo now. The Committee on Education is looking at this system of competences. I don't rule out choices being made out there. Whether it is in group 2 or group 3, where it will lie and how it works in the continuous learning lines, is a question I have asked in many places. No one has a uniform answer to that at the moment. Earlier, a motion was tabled here that actually says: preferably by next school year. You can't do that in such a hurry. That is not the question of whether we would manage to do that, because you would ask the law to do something about the system of powers, and then you would ask pabos to organise themselves quite differently. I wonder if that is the right energy at the moment. Yes, this specialization of the young child must be given full attention. Yes, that question really needs to be answered in the jurisdictional system. But right now, rushing a hard cut isn't a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u136	Have you also dealt with everything related to the issue of competences? Then I'll go to the interruptions. Otherwise you will have the opportunity to conclude that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u137	I could have said that there are other specializations, but I think that all the other things will be dealt with in the interruptions that are still to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u138	Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u139	There is no rush to act in any way. This request was already on the table in this Chamber under Rutte I, so since 2010. There's nothing rushing about it. There is only an endless repetition of the same issue and the request for the same solution. Now we have also received a letter from the Association of Colleges of Higher Education, which is said to be: trust this to the committee, then we have gained some time. This just seems like unwillingness. This is not at all hasty or otherwise. This is a repeated request to specify within the pabo for the young child, and indeed also 10-14 or as far as I am concerned in a direction professional teacher in the MBO. Can the Minister confirm that this has been an issue since 2010? What has the Minister done to really speed this up after the motion? Because this requires a fundamental change, and it is about time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u140	I know that this question has been going on for a long time, but I know that that is a question and a wish that also raises a lot of debate, because it also has to do with the recognition of the continuous learning line, from the young child throughout the primary school. It also has to do with how we look at the shared knowledge that there should be at a primary school of that whole continuous learning line. What we have done to speed up this process is to make sure that is really happening everywhere now that those specializations young child are there. Indeed, there is no longer an obligation to walk the internship young child in your first year. It may also consist of a walk-in in third grade. I ask you exactly where it should be, in group 2 or group 3. And how do we look at the group between 10 and 14? Does that have to be exactly underbuilding superstructure? How does this relate to the integrated child centres and their development? What I'm seeing right now is this. All those who choose the pabo and who say "I'm going full for that young child" can do that through specialisation. And those who say "that's not exactly what I'm looking for," can choose the other side full-bodied. But in the interest of good education, in the interest of good children's development, I also tell them that it is good to keep an eye on that whole continuous learning line. For example, if you're in group 6, 7, 8, it's good to know what's happening in those other groups. I think it is important for the committee to think this through. Before the summer, you will get a picture of that, and then we will take decisions on it very quickly. That has nothing to do with unwillingness. That has to do with careful education policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u141	All these issues were also on the table in 2010. It is not at all up to the Chamber to cut exactly with scissors from which group, how it works with learning lines and how it relates to the broad school. It is up to the Chamber to indicate a direction. Now, in 2020, the same problem is on the table and we are missing people who do not choose the pabo, precisely because those steps have not yet been taken. So I'm actually hearing a minister pick up all the arguments that have been given for ten years, apparently from training programmes that have no desire to make that choice. I can't translate it any other way. All these kinds of arguments argue against this kind of hard choices. So I ask the Minister once again how she implements the motion adopted by the Chamber. 'Cause it's very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u142	I think I just turned that in. I can repeat that. I strongly dispute that this has something to do with unwillingness in the ministry, in me or in training. It has to do with watching how we carefully shape these continuous learning lines for children. How do we make sure these pabos have really good quality? A few years ago, there was quite a lot to do about it. Incredible steps have been taken. I am opposed to the fact that we are currently missing a lot of influx because of the lack of that cut. I see on pabo's, when I speak to students who do indeed have questions like that, that they are getting their way, even now, because of the specialization they can choose. Are there any follow-up steps in that? I'm sure you do, but you'll have to take a look at the whole thing. Then you can't in advance take one thing out of a building block, because that also sort out what you're going to do. Now, before the summer, we have a first total sketch. Then we can build on that and make decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u143	I would nevertheless like to join in Mr Van der Molen's contribution. Of course, if you visit the pabos and talk to the students there, you won't encounter these objections. 'Cause those students still chose the pabo. But you just run into them with people outside the pabo, when they could have been on the pabo, if they had had the opportunity to specialize in an older group, 10-14 or 8-12, you name it. I would like to underline what Mr Van der Molen says. This has, at least for as long as I have been in the Chamber, been an endless point of discussion. It's endlessly trained. "No, there must be a continuous line." And, "Then we need to see if we have a continuous line..." No, if this is a bottleneck that leaves us lacking primary education talents, then the question should not be whether we can secure that continuous line, because that is of course important, but how can we do that? That's what's wrong with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u144	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u145	My question to the Minister is as follows. The Minister states that we will have clarity about this before the summer. What's her first step after that? Do we have a first consultation in September or whatever? Is there going to be a legislative process?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u146	Mr. Bishop!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u147	Because if that doesn't happen, it will be postponed again and lifted across the border. Then we can start over in a next cabinet, whether that's Rutte IV or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u148	Mr. Bishop, this was your second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u149	No, this was my first interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u150	I think I have just indicated how we see it. There will be a first sketch before the summer. I have already indicated that it is our intention to have a first implementation in the school year 21-22. That is very soon, because then we really will have to take a lot of steps next year. Once again, I would like to take away the impression that, for my part, there is any reluctance or training. We've really looked at this. The Education Council has also been quite clear that you need to look at this in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u151	But Mr Bishop's question was about the autumn and whether there will be anything before the summer. That was the procedural question: how do we deal with this? What does the legislative process look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u152	We are really doing it as soon as possible, as I have just indicated to you, but I would first like to see the outline of that opinion. But if legislation is needed to implement the advice, we will, of course, do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u153	I also have a question on this point, because we simply adopted a very clear motion on this some time ago. He instructs the Minister to get to work on this. I see now that Minister actually says: I'm putting that motion next to me. At least that's how it feels to me. I would therefore like to join the two previous speakers. This concerns not only the students who didn't choose the pabo, but also those who didn't meet you at the pabo because they stopped doing it, precisely because of the fact that they had to do an internship in a place they didn't want or because there was too much attention for subjects they didn't want. They had not encountered them on a pabo aimed at either the young child or the older child, so not as a specialization but as a direction itself. So is it true that you're putting that motion next to you? What do you need? I think that a broad majority in this Chamber wants to take this course, so what do you need to make you move in the right direction? 'Cause we're a little out of patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u154	I think that's pretty clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u155	The motion is perfectly clear to me. I didn't consider it at all or just for a second to put it next to me. I just want to be realistic about the deadline. If we have to have this reform of the system at the beginning of the school year, then we are doing something hasty that we may regret in the overall picture. Again, I also want to combat the image that is sometimes widely measured here, because no one has to do internships in a place where he really doesn't want to. Point me to the pabo where someone who really doesn't want to, and who gets it as an order. Show me that pabo, 'cause I'd be happy to have a conversation with it. But on every pabo I go, I also hear saying: we try to meet the student's wishes as much as possible. But even if we are going to make that distinction in specialization younger child and specialisation superstructure, I still think it might be wise to run that internship over and over again. Then you can see that, too. So we shouldn't pretend to be able to say that I'm just going for the upper secondary education and I don't want to know anything about the rest. Maybe that's not wise either. That's what I want to talk to you about. We now have a very expert committee, with people from all over the field of education. Those are not only people from the training courses, but also just people standing in front of the classroom. I'm also listening to the people in elementary school who understand how important it is that if you're all working at one primary school, you can see what's going on in grade 1 and what's going on in grade 8. You must have a good understanding of each other's work, because you also have to cross that continuous line with each other. But I also fully understand the wish and urgency of your Chamber. I'm trying to put that together as best I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u156	Finally, on this point, because there has really been enough change.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u157	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but it's a tricky point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u158	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u159	Such a continuous learning line, as far as I am concerned, could perfectly fit into the specialization that goes with it. I simply do not share this Minister's caution. She says: if we make a decision and we introduce it by next school year, then there might possibly be a problem in the future. The Chamber has declared that we want this. And we're here to make decisions. This is the decision we made. Therefore, I find it difficult to use caution where it cannot be said with certainty 'it is a wrong choice'. 'Cause we want this as a room. We have said that in a majority. I think the Minister should just take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u160	You made that clear. The Minister, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u161	Mr Heerema puts something in my mouth that I absolutely did not say. I think that in a debate like this we should really be exactly in that. You put me in the mouth that I would have said that you are making the wrong choice. I didn't say that. I haven't spoken at all about a wrong choice. All I have said is that we should look carefully at the care taken in a motion. That is perhaps also a task that you have as Minister: if there are any motions, you should see if it can be carried out in a careful manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u162	You have made that clear, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u163	And all I have said is: yes, that motion is there, I am working on it, but September 2020 as the moment when it should all be implemented is not feasible. I didn't think that was realistic either. That is what I indicated in the debate, and that is what I am sticking to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u164	I suggest you move on. I think you'd come to the pabo's admission requirements. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u165	Yes, chairman, the influx into teacher training. Let's find out that the influx on the pabo grows happily. We still have serious concerns about teacher training for the vo, but we may be able to talk about this at another time. This influx is growing, and this applies to both full-time, part-time and side-influxers. We have also been aware of the questions that live on the part of people who have the desire to go into education. They asked, "Do I still see the woods through the trees?" That is indeed what the Education Window has been designed for. If you sit behind the computer at home and you move into those who are looking for a job in education, it becomes very clear. The regions are also connected to this. I say again that we want as diverse an influx as possible on the pabo. Luckily, we see the influx of men rising. The number of men now amounts to about a quarter of the total influx. I am pleased with that, because that also increases the diversity for the class. Mr Bruins and Mr Heerema asked for that. I hope it's not just that quarter, but that it's increasing further. I think it was Mr Van der Molen or Mr Heerema, who asked: can these good examples be published? That is why the Alliance "Divers voor de Klas" was founded. That includes the LOBO, the PO Council and the master movement. It was created to see how we can measure the best practices, best practices, widely, so that we can involve as many potential teachers as possible, but also retain them for education? Mr. Chairman. One of the things I belonged to the training courses and of which I thought, quite frankly, "it can hardly be true" is the sometimes lack of internship fees. We're having a time of major shortage of teachers. As a student, you do a lot of internship. Unlike any other HBO course, not all students receive an internship fee. The chairman of the PO Council was in the gallery earlier, not anymore. However, I would like to say to the PO Council, over your head, that this would have been covered by the collective agreement. Take care of this now. This cannot cost schools the head and it is something you can do in explaining the red carpet for young people, especially when it comes to part-time students. Part-time students are often people who quit a part of their job to choose the profession of teacher. They sometimes have to look very closely at how many hours they can still work, so that they can pay their mortgage and flat-rate charges and still receive training. Then €200 to €300 in internship fees in the month really matter. Unfortunately, we can't force it. It is something that should be regulated in the collective agreement. But from here, I'll make the call... take care of it. Mr Bruins had a question about the lios on this point. Those are the senior students, who are actually just working in education, and who are allowed to be full of the class without guidance. They're just supposed to get a contract. Mr Bruins asked about the distinction between lio's and interns. We don't really know any Lio trainees. Actually, it's just supposed to be that those seniors get a contract and get to stand independently in front of the classroom. The second and third years are just interns. They must be paid a good price. I hope that you will show me: yes, for everyone who is internship a fee and for the scores the collective wage that has been agreed. I think this is how it's supposed to be done. That must be clear and I hope that all the school boards will do it that way. We need people very much, then you have to let them know that they are welcome. In an earlier debate there was the Tielen/Van der Molen motion on compensation for people who already have an educational competence and want to get another one, in order to be more employable, but then have to pay institutional tuition fees. You put in an idea for where to get that money. The arrangement is here now. It will be published on 25 February. I have signed it and hope that many students will benefit from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u166	I see Mrs Westerveld. You will have the floor in a moment, but I would like to know how far the Minister is going to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u167	I still have side-influx, part-time and a few loose topics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u168	Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u169	Very briefly. I am very pleased with the Minister's clear words when it comes to interns and lio trainees. Several people here have had an e-mail from a student who indicated that this problem is not only in the schools of education and primary education, but also in his own college, who apparently does not make any clear agreements about it either. So I would like to ask that this appeal made to school boards also be given to the Association of Colleges.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u170	Sure, we will. Even if you make agreements as a training course in the context of training together, this should be part of the agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u171	I suggest that you proceed, and also that you proceed to the conclusion, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u172	Mr Van der Molen rightly drew attention to the point: are these training courses already sufficiently equipped and flexible for, for example, side-intromers? It is really something else whether you come to the pabo as a 17-year-old or as a 42-year-old with a dime of experience in your backpack. We are now looking with the VSNU and the Association of Colleges to see if we can better work on recognising previously acquired competences. To give you an example: if you have a work history behind you in which you have just learned to master the English language very well, we might be able to see if there is an exemption for English. That's not always easy now. Can we get one clear national assessment for those side-intromers? What about side-intromers and cesorship on certain keys? In the context of the flexibilisation of higher education, we have discussed this before. It would be good if we could give some more details about working with learning outcomes here as well. That's why we set up the emergency team. This will enable us to respond together to any question from a side-intromer and to any signal or that cannot be better regulated. In addition, Mr Van der Molen had a question about the more full-time person who then misses one point and who therefore has to wait another year. That's one of those cases you're actually saying: that can't be true at this time. I sympathise with you very much. We are also constantly talking to the pabos, on the one hand about the organization of education and on the other hand the flexibility for students. I agree with you that at a time when we would like everyone to be in class as soon as possible, but well trained, there should be a little more flexibility when I can take a test in a year. That's what I'm talking about. I would also point out that students, as well as teachers in the participation of the OER, must pay close attention to this. But thank you for sending the signal here. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Bertema and Mr Heerema asked about the part-time factor. Wouldn't it be good if the part-time factor in education, where we need a lot of people, got a little smaller? I would like to say two things to you in the front. Yeah, that's a factor. It's not the blissful solution, but it can help, sure. We've seen a lot of numbers on that, too. I would like to say to you in the front: it remains everyone's choice. I think it is very helpful to continue to stress this: it is your own choice as an employee. The cabinet has done a number of things to make more hours of work more fiscally attractive, with additional resources for childcare and also with the arrangement of birth leave. We're having another discussion about parental leave. Whatever can be done in education, and that is perhaps too little known, is the cost regulation. For example, if someone is going to work extra and therefore incurs additional childcare costs, this can be partly covered in education by the working costs scheme. That's what employees can do. I also think it is a very good initiative to tackle the potential. In health care, a successful look at how to seduce people to work more hours. How can you get an employer and an employee to have that conversation? We also found that the question is often not even asked. Wieteke Grave with her foundation has done good work on that point. I am now also talking to a large educational foundation, a large board, to see if we can do something with that whole organisation, and that is about a lot of employees. Can we not apply the model that has been successful in health care in a few places, also in education? That can be done by making sure that conversation takes place. But also pay attention to how that works in the roster of people and for what you have to do as an employer to make it organizeable for people at home. I believe with you that there is a profit to be made here, and I am fully motivated to get to work on this. Because now we're abandoning real potential. To the people who say: yes, but the workload is already so high, I say: we see that it can counter the workload if you organize it in some larger jobs. Then you have fewer transfer moments and you make the attractive aspects of the work more accessible. So, yeah, we're gonna work on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u173	Fine. I would like to know how far you are in answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u174	I've had the cubes. I still have a few loose questions to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u175	Also from Mr. Heerema? It's at the interrupting microphone. Then we can take that question with us right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u176	I think his question is about part-time. I don't think I have any more loose questions from him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u177	Do you have a question now, Mr. Herma? Very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u178	Yes, Mr. Chairman, otherwise I won't be standing here. I have two brief questions. The Minister states that the cost of working is not yet sufficiently known. Does the Minister feel an urgency on this point? Can it contribute to raising awareness of this scheme? In my term I asked if the Minister had any insight into the causes of the phenomenon that teachers start with a job of two, three or three and a half days after the end of the pabo? Why is the start of their working life so limited?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u179	Short question, short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u180	This does not apply specifically to education. We see widely in society that highly-educated young people are there for children in many sectors of education and care, but also outside them opt for part-time work. The cabinet has conducted a wide-ranging investigation into part-time work. We will soon come up with a cabinet position on this. This choice therefore does not apply specifically to education. Because there are many part-time jobs, many part-time jobs are offered. I ask employers to offer more substantial jobs. That makes it attractive to a lot of people. It has to do with the offer, but it is also a broad phenomenon in Dutch society. Mr. Chairman. I come to the block I usually call varia. I don't want to fail anyone. Mr Kwint asked what it would cost if your graduates at the pabo gradually dropped their student debt. What would it cost if you made the pabo completely free? From that last question, I want to say that nothing is entirely free. If you make something for one free, the other has to pay more. It has to be paid somewhere. I would like to point out that there is a shortage of labour in the public sector. If you were to do this for the pabo, you would have to do it in care and perhaps in other courses as well. The bill will be very high. Specifically for the pabo it costs 50 to 60 million. I am not in favour of a step-by-step rejection of student debt. Why not? Because it provokes people to borrow more than they need to. You say: borrow as much as you can, because you will be forgiven if you do a teacher's education. I don't think that's what we want to radiate when it comes to sensible dealing with loans. Mrs Westerveld asked about the flow possibilities for teaching assistants. We'll do as much as we can to make that flow easy. Educational assistants can increasingly follow the choice. We're gonna see if we can make sure you're well prepared for the pabo keys in one of those choices. Maybe you can intertwine some of those two elements. There are summer schools where teachers who want to go to the pabo can prepare themselves well for the tests. There is a financial concession for teaching assistants who already work in education. Work is being done on all fronts to make that route more attractive. It has also been asked how on the SBB site the labour market opportunities of teaching assistants can sometimes be qualified as low. I was surprised by that with you. The image is varied. There is a whole reservoir of trained teaching assistants who can still work in education. That's one side of the story. On the other hand, we see differences between parts of the country. I asked SBB if they wanted to make the study leaflet more diverse for the different parts of the country. That's what they're working on. It makes a difference whether you want to take that training in the east of the country or in the big cities. A number of questions were also asked about the duped students of the Open University. I promised you 'the answer will come in March' and it will come in March, but it is still February at the moment. Mrs Westerveld also had a question about retraining other workers, for example from construction. We are systematically looking at opportunities for lateral influx. This is particularly true for those who already have training in higher education, because it is good to organise influx. But Mr Bruins was quite right, of course, when he pointed out that the very people in construction or other technical sectors, for example, could very well be used as a side-intromer in the MBO or the VMBO. We're looking at those routes, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u181	I want to know how far along you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u182	Mr President, I am doing my best to do it as soon as possible, but I would also like to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u183	That can also be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u184	I've already had what I have here on leaves, so I think I'm through. So I can surprise you pleasantly. I don't know if everyone in the room feels that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u185	What a surprise. Thank you very much. Thank you so much for doing this. You should not provoke it, but I know the Members of Parliament: if they do not feel that way, they will certainly raise it. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Kwint on behalf of the SP. I'm going to see how many motions are being filed today, and what's in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u186	I'm about to tell you, Mr. Chairman. But first I have a question for the cabinet. Of course I thank you for all the answers. I read on the NOS website that 100 million will be spent on the major cities' crisis plans. It may of course be that it is miswritten, but it also stated in the last sentence that the money will be spent, among other things, on the use of the fifth day when children are no longer going to receive education. It seems to me very tragic that we should now subsidise excursions as a result of the shortage of teachers, because there is no teacher in front of the classroom. I think you'd better spend that money on teachers. But I'd like to hear what the Minister has to say. We'll come back later on to the temporary employment agencies and the permanent contracts. To the question about rapid support, the Minister will have an answer if it is right. Then the point remains of the small classes in schools where many pupils are lagging behind. We really believe that this is an essential step to guarantee the quality of education in such schools, and also to ensure that good teachers in the most difficult schools, where they are most needed, stay to work or go to work. Mr. Lordema, I wanted to give you the floor now, but of course I am not the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u187	But you weren't finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u188	No, you're right. Shall I read a motion first?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u189	Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u190	Here's to it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the shortage of teachers is most acute in schools with many disadvantaged pupils;]] [[Whereas it is precisely in these schools that smaller classes and good and competent teachers are particularly needed to ensure the quality of education;]] [[calls on the government to start reducing classes to 23 pupils per class in 10% of the schools with the most disadvantaged pupils,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-391]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u191	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u192	Do you have another motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u193	Sure. After all, that proves to be the question that remains above this debate: last year there was 14 billion left. I told you, that's EUR 7.5 million per vacancy. The question is: are we going to choose the next time there is money to be distributed for education, or are we going to be able to pay off public debt even further? And now that VNO-NCW has also sided with education, I have good hope that the coalition will go along this time. We're gonna see. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that all government measures to combat the shortage of teachers have not yet led to a shrinking deficit, only a reduction in the growth of this deficit;]] [[calls on the government to fight for additional investment in education on any remaining occasion and to prioritize this over the further discharge of public debt,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-392]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u194	To the second accurate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u195	Mr. Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u196	I have one short question. Mr.Kwint discussed possible excursions on a fifth day in Amsterdam, for example. Would Mr Kwint be in favour, for example, of setting up a fifth day with professors? Then there is not the "teacher for the class," but art, culture, music and that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u197	I can imagine. Let me say first of all that I am not in favour of that four-day school week anyway. I hate that we have to talk about it at all. But if that fifth day of school has to be filled in in a different way, I would like to do so as educational, pedagogical and didactically responsible as possible, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u198	Thank you, Mr. Kwint. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have three motions today. The first concerns emergency measures which, as far as we are concerned, should never become the norm. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the quality of education is monitored by the educational inspection;]] [[noting that employers' organisations have expressed concerns about the impact on the economy of the growing shortage of teachers;]] [[noting that aldermen from the four major cities are concerned about the impact of teacher-deprived emergency plans on their pupils, and in particular on the opportunities of the most vulnerable pupils;]] [[noting that these aldermen indicated that legal frameworks should be temporarily resisted in order to cope with the acute shortage of teachers and that structural problems could not be solved by means of occasional money;]] [[believes that emergency crisis measures from the emergency plans should never become the norm in education;]] [[calls on the Government to respond to the call for structural investment in the assessment of emergency plans and, if necessary, to extend legal frameworks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-393]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u200	Mr. Chairman. I told you, we do not solve the problems in our education with occasional money. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas each child should be able to count on a good teacher for the class;]] [[noting that the growing shortage of teachers is a threat to equal opportunities in education;]] [[considers that the work of teachers in primary and secondary education is equally important;]] [[calls on the Government to make structural funds available for reducing the workload and improving salaries in primary education in the Spring Paper,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-394]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u201	Finally, Mr President. The PvdA also wants to move towards a single collective agreement. The social partners are at the heart of this, according to the Minister. It is precisely to help them declare in common what is needed, that I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the former mediator succeeded in concluding a new collective agreement in primary education in the autumn;]] [[noting that a single collective agreement for both sectors is desirable to close the gap in wages between primary and secondary education;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the aforementioned mediator to examine with those concerned the steps needed to achieve a single collective agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-395]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u202	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions on support in the classroom. There is a shortage of teachers, but we also need to work on maintaining people who provide support around the classroom. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the side-influx scheme in education is a successful way of getting more people into class;]] [[Considering that in 2019 almost 2,000 people chose to study from another field of expertise;]] [[noting that in physically difficult jobs many professionals are outflowing for between 40 and 50 years due to physical fitness;]] [[Whereas there are opportunities in retraining these professionals to, for example, concierges to support teachers in this way and thus remove the workload;]] [[calls on the Government to allow a side-inflow route for concierges,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that 328 applications were made last year for the subsidy scheme for teaching assistants wishing to go to the pabo;]] [[noting that the retraining of teaching assistants who wish to do so can contribute to countering the shortage of teachers;]] [[noting that there are hardly any shortened training pathways for teaching assistants and that they often have to go through the whole of the training process and this education assistants who do wish to discourage it;]] [[Whereas, at regional and local level, there are a small number of specific pathways offering tailor-made solutions such as exemptions for teaching assistants who have proven to be able to meet the level;]] [[calls on the government to discuss the offer with teachers' training courses with a view to increasing tailor-made pathways for teaching assistants who wish to become teachers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-396]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Westerveld and Mr Van der Molen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-397]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u203	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister's letters were already breathless, and if there was any luck here and there, for example in the number of applications for the pabo, it is celebrated with inappropriate optimism. There's no need for optimism. Then, in this debate, the two ministers outlined a long-term perspective that extends well beyond their own timeframe. So we can no longer appeal to them politically if it doesn't work later. Where rapid results can be achieved, for example with the full-time bonus, ministers do not or hardly give at home. And if they give a little bit at home, they have plans that they're gonna pick up and there's "examinations" set up. Well, I'm blaming the ministers for their cowardice, a lack of ambition and decisiveness. That's actually not that crazy, because they have nothing to say in the educational polder since the lump sum funding. I would like to help the ministers and also ourselves back in the driver's seat, the driver's seat, and make them operational again. To this end, the autonomy of these directors must be broken. You can do that by ear-taging the most important part of the lumpsum. That is why I am tabling this motion, which the Ministers will know will prevent. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the choices made by teachers on the basis of the freedom of use granted to them by the lump sum payment have led to a reduction in the quality of education;]] [[Considers that the declining quality of education manifests itself above all in the declining computing and language mastery of the last generations of pupils;]] [[having noted that the lumpsum systematiek has set the Minister and the House of Representatives at such a great distance that there is insufficient politically effective intervention in education;]] [[calls on the Government, on the basis of ratios to be established, to assess the staff costs in the lump sum,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-398]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u204	If this motion is adopted, both ministers and the Chamber will also have much more freedom of action to finally shape that education in such a way that people do want to teach it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u205	Thank you, Mr. Beertema. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u206	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both ministers for answering the questions. I can also see that a large package of measures is currently being implemented to tackle the major problem of the shortage of teachers. At the same time, we see that the problems are not just gone and that this requires a great deal of effort for many years to come. I have put the emphasis on one point: the lio, the teacher in training, as an employee. The Minister of OCW replied. However, I have seen that a recent AOb survey, from November 2019, shows that in any case, many of the scores are considered as trainees and not as employees. I would therefore like to call on the Minister to look at this again and to discuss it with the PO Council, because at least in the p.o. There appear to be two types of lios. So I'm gonna call here to take another look at that and talk about it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a growing shortage of teachers in primary education is expected;]] [[having noted that the Cabinet has already taken many measures to make the profession more attractive and to increase inflow and influx;]] [[noting that pabo students can be appointed as "lio as an employee" but also as "lio as an intern" and that, among other things, a recent AOb survey shows that this brings with it strange differences in pay while there is often little difference in work;]] [[Considering that the growing shortage of teachers requires that all sails be adjusted and that all scores simply deserve a decent remuneration;]] [[calls on the Government to enter into talks with the PO Council to ensure that the distinction between "lio as an employee" and "lio as an intern" is removed and that all grades receive appropriate remuneration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Van der Molen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-399]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u207	Mr. Chairman. I, too, would like to thank the two directors for answering the questions in good parliamentary practice. Some misunderstandings have been cleared up here and there, and there is some clarification here and there. I had one motion. It is almost similar to the motion by Mr Heerema and Mr Van der Molen, so we have prepared the joy of putting all these motions together. Mr Heerema will table that motion. Let's leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u208	That's the way it's gonna be. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mr Rudmer Heerema on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u209	Mr. Chairman. For my part, two motions, with thanks for the first-term response. The first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the collective agreement provisions in primary education currently provide for strict rules on the additional remuneration a well-functioning teacher can obtain in terms of performance, namely an additional periodically for good functioning, but that it is not yet sufficiently clear for schools to be able to award additional remuneration to excellent teachers above;]] [[noting that the Ministry of Education, Education and Social Affairs, together with the AOb/FNV, AVS, CNV, feels responsible for the social problem of a shortage of teachers;]] [[believes that it is important to provide excellent performing teachers with a career perspective with extra rewards and that this will help to keep more people warm for a teacher's career;]] [[calls on the Government, together with employers' and educational organisations, to explore ways of clearly allowing future collective agreements within primary and secondary education to provide excellently performing teachers with more reward over the additional periodically per year, whether this is for example pay or study opportunities, and to inform the Chamber before 1 November 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Rudmer Heerema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-400]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u210	Yeah, about the motion. I would like to know whether there will be extra money to deal with this. Because if we want bonuses on top of what's possible right now, then there's an extra budget, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u211	I think this is a good point from Mrs Westerveld. I'm very curious to see what opportunities there would be, what the field of education comes up with. If these possibilities fit, I am certainly prepared to look for opportunities to provide those resources as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u212	Mr Van Meenen. Also a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u213	We've been in that situation before. That was in 2012, if I do. At that time, 250 million was available for incentive payment. At that time, I think the ArenA was full of 'yes', that was the ArenA; I was there myself to argue that that money would go to appropriate education because no one in education needed that incentive payment. Is this just a second attempt to do that again, or is Mr Heerema already making a pot to finally give it to something else that would be a much better destination?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u214	No, I'm not. We still believe that this is an excellent opportunity for teachers in education who expect more career prospects and rewards and hope to remain in education. So we think this is a good idea. I have also tried to explain this in the first term, but that seems not to have come across sufficiently well. It's not meant to create a jar to spend it on anywhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u215	Good. Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u216	Mr. Chairman. You had probably already noticed in the reply that a number of parties were not entirely satisfied with the Minister's response to the pabo. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a majority of the Chamber has requested that it be possible for students to opt for a specialised pabo in addition to the current pabo aimed at the younger and older child and that any admission requirements and the competent authority be adapted accordingly;]] [[noting that this has not yet been achieved;]] [[Whereas an impact of the agreement in the government agreement on differentiations at the primary education academy (pabo) aimed at the younger and older child is still pending;]] [[Calls on the Government to take immediate action to create a specialised pabo focused on the younger and older child and to launch an experiment by summer 2020 in which pabo institutions can participate on a voluntary basis in a pilot for a specialised pabo aimed at the younger and older child, and adapt any admission requirements and competent authority;]] [[Calls on the Government to allow the specialised pabo focused on the younger and older child for all pabo institutions by the 2021-2022 academic year, and to inform the Chamber of 1 January 2021 on the progress made in this regard,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Rudmer Heerema, Mr Van der Molen, Mr Rog, Mr Bishop and Mr Bruins.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-401]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u217	Just a procedural question, because I am not against this at all. We have all agreed that we want a comprehensive report on the whole review of powers and everything related to them. Wouldn't it be crazy, in anticipation of that debate, to change the whole structure of the pabo's already? I agree with you that this is taking a very long time. But it doesn't make any sense, now that this is coming, is the report of the Education Council already going to change now and to have the debate afterwards on what it should look like in the future, when we've changed the net?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u218	No, because that power debate is broader than just the pabo. We believe that this should be done for the pabo anyway, preferably as soon as possible. The answer given by the Minister in the first term gives us reason to come forward with this motion. We want it to be dealt with as soon as possible. The next school year is not going to be possible, so we have to make sure that next school year the experiment takes place, and that it has been introduced the following year, because it has to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u219	Thank you, Mr. Lordema. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the ministers for answering the questions asked. I agree with Mr Heerema's remarks on the point we discussed with the Minister concerning the pabo. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, at present, students at primary and secondary school teacher training courses, as well as their instromers, run into many cases which make it difficult to follow training or to switch to education;]] [[also considering that the Education Commission has recently started to look not only at broader competences but also at making teacher training more attractive for students and side-intromers;]] [[Considering that it is not necessary to wait for the results of this committee to change certain things already, such as, for example, allowing for more re-launching times, better focusing the training for side-intromers on previously acquired work experience and competences and better supporting start-ups teachers;]] [[calls on the Cabinet not to wait for the results of the Education Commission to implement a number of measures that make teacher training more flexible and thus more attractive to students and side-intromers, without compromising quality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Molen and Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-402]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u221	Another motion suggesting looking at the approach Strong in your work, which is funded by VWS. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a serious shortage of labour in both care and education, not only in terms of attracting new labour, but also in terms of maintaining labour for the sector;]] [[also considering that in the healthcare sector, the strong project in your work has successfully improved regional cooperation between employers and (career) coaching of employees in order to maintain staff for care;]] [[invites the Cabinet to examine whether such a project as Strong in your work can also be set up for education, and to inform the Chamber thereof before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Molen, Mr Rog and Mr Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-403]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u222	Thank you, Mr President. It remains remarkable that, in one debate, we are faced twice with a widely adopted motion, one of the opposition and one of the coalition, which is simply not being implemented. One of them is the motion on the influence of companies on sponsorship. The new covenant states that the sponsor must promote a healthy lifestyle and contribute to the future of children. Now it appears time and time again that this is not the case. In particular, companies such as Shell play a critical role in this. That's why I'm filing one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that psychological stress can be experienced as a result of the climate crisis;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the need for additional resources or new forms of support in schools to best accompany psychological stress related to the climate crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-404]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u223	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u224	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Meenen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions, so I could also spend these two minutes inviting everyone to be a teacher. I'm not gonna do that, because I actually want us to finish as soon as possible. I thank the rulers. We have a number of motions again. We can choose. A choice of paper comes over us. But as far as I'm concerned, the real work isn't done right now, but it needs to start. We have to move on. I would like to thank the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education for his claroon punch on the website of the NOS. I wonder how we'll proceed with that. But in any case, my group too, I also heard Mr Bruins say that it is now the highest priority to see what we can do where the need is highest at the moment, namely in the big cities. We will see how that relates to the resources that may become available. I'm careful because I know how it works, but that's the job we're facing right now. I would like to thank all my colleagues for the fine debate we have had together, but I would say: let us get to work. One more thing about this. I hear here all the time the terms "structural" and "incidental." In particular, Mrs van den Hul talks about this all the time. One thing I want to say about that. My party is committed to making the shortage of teachers occasional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u226	Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I see that the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media can respond equally. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u227	We've been working hard, writing, watching time, too, Mr. Chairman. There are two outstanding questions from the first term, about two motions. First of all, this is the motion by Mrs Westerveld and Mr Kwint on making appointments and putting the professional at the centre, so that when applying for additional support, a statement by teacher or school leader is sufficient. Yes, I did. I did. I did. The situation is that, in principle, there are no national award procedures for it, and so it should be possible to do so quickly. So there are no obstacles when it comes to regulation, but we see that it does not work equally well in practice. My intention now is, if we come up with the evaluation of appropriate education before the summer, to see if we can arrange this better, so that such annoying situations can stay out. As far as we are concerned, that is the approach, and I think that is further enhanced by the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u228	Very briefly, Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u229	Can we therefore look forward to a proposal to simplify this rule forest? It may not always be Hague rules, but I hear that this really is about bureaucracy frustration number one of teachers throughout the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u230	The special thing is that in principle it is not even the rules, but rather the way in which it is handled in practice. So I really want to take this up in the way you also mentioned in the basic provision: there is simply a need for much more clarity in the schools and in the classes about how that works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u231	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u232	The second question that had remained was about the motion referring to the labour market letter. On that page of the labour market letter the motion has not been mentioned again. So I guess that's where the misunderstanding was. It is the answer that I had also given to Mr Heerema, namely that, on the basis of the information we are now getting about non-employed staff, we do not have sufficient insight into what exactly the teachers are. That is what we are now doing the additional research, because we would like to know. This will be achieved in this calendar year. The first motion in this debate, in part No. 391 is from Mr Kwint, who asked me to respond to the coverage of this debate. I find that a little complicated. I can only repeat that I have indicated that, if we look at what the emergency plans cost in money, that gross Modo will be about 100 million, if I look just as wider than the big cities, and that I am going to make a strong effort to try to provide funding as well as that needed for implementation. I said that, but I haven't looked at all the parts of the contingency plans. That is being worked out at the moment and we will see what that will mean in the end. I advise against this motion. This can be part of the elaboration of plans from the big cities to look very specifically at the class size. Moreover, the average class size is 23 pupils, but I am not going to impose this from above. Once again, I do not exclude that this can be part of the elaboration of the plans that are now being made, including the additional resources that are already in place to make use of them. But I advise against this motion that calls for that top-down. The motion in part No. 392, I also advise against it. You will understand that that is not the way in which a cabinet is weighed up. That usually happens integrally. Then the motion to part No. 393 by Mrs Van den Hul. If this motion were to be given a majority, I could immediately stop drawing up the plans as they are now. Some of these are plans that do not cost money, but if they cost money, I try to make sure that at least in the short term these plans can be implemented, as I have just said. I understand that there are long-term and structural requirements. They will also be the subject of further debate. The motion in this form I advise against. It would really be end of practice. Then I can stop talking and with all the work that's being done right now. I do not think that is the intention of Mrs Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u233	I should first like to address the following motions for resolutions, Mrs van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u234	The motion in part No. 394 by Mrs van den Hul is concerned with the Spring paper and its decision-making. I don't recommend that motion. As regards the motion in part No. I would like to ask Mrs Van den Hul and Mr Van Meenen to keep it. There hasn't even been a conversation with the social partners to see if they're just gonna pick it up themselves. If there is not even a conflict, I think it is a little premature to say directly by means of a motion that there should be an mediator. No matter how much love I have for the person you have in mind, I don't think we should do this to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u235	What if the motion isn't stopped?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u236	Then I'll advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u237	Okay. Mrs Van den Hul, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u238	To begin with, I am fine with holding the motion. I would like to point out that the motion was not based on the given 'conflict', but on the fact that there is a shared desire to take a step further, which could perhaps be a solution. But I'm fine with holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u239	At the request of Mrs Van den Hul, I propose her motion (27923, No. 395). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u240	In response to my motion to part No. 393 the Minister used the word "wishes" for structural purposes. However, I would like to point out that it is precisely the aldermen from the big cities who say that it is conditional on the success of their ambition. So it's not a wish, it's a condition. I just wanted to point that out, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u241	Then I come to the motion on part No. The other motions will be put to the vote by my colleague Mr Beertema. I'd advise against it. We will undoubtedly discuss this further in the legislation on the financing of secondary education. The motion in part No. I also advise 400 of Mr Rudmer Heerema. If he would ask me to do so by way of a motion, but also simply in such a way as to ask the employers and educational organizations to take this up and if I would like to report on what they have come up with at that point, then I can just do so. But I am not in a position to do so in this way as part of the social partners who make a collective agreement. It seems like a bit of a word game, but it has to do with observing the positions. If the motion stays the way it is, I'm gonna dissuade him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u242	Mrs Westerveld, do you have a question about your motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u243	Your two motions will be dealt with by my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u244	I know that, but I have a question about Mr Beertema's motion on the lump sum. The Minister now refers to a legislative consultation. But this spring we will receive a letter from the inspection about, among other things, the financial reserves. In the pieces we read "spring 2020." I would like to ask the Minister: when is that coming? In my opinion, this is a fine and interesting motion to take us towards that debate, but we must have that letter first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u245	Just for a minute. This is a very fundamental discussion about how or not to deal with the lumpsum and putting brackets around certain topics. With regard to the debate on reserves and alert values, I will, I remember, report before the summer, so that you have a better view of what we are actually going to do there. We're really in the middle of that. We will indeed have that debate in the coming weeks and months.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u246	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u247	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 403. I'll pass judgment on that, Room. The motion in part No. 404 by Mr Van Raan, I recommend. It's kind of coming out of the sky for me. I think we should have a broader discussion about the displeasure that you have. It may happen that you feel that a motion has not been properly carried out. I'll wait and see. Whatever's gonna come out of there, maybe we can take it in one go. But at this time and in this way, I advise against this motion. Mr President, I have had my motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u248	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u249	Mr. Chairman. I still have a few motions. I'll deal with them in order. Mrs Westerveld's first motion concerns a side-inflow route for concierges. That motion is superfluous, because there are no skills requirements for janitors. Anyone who comes from another field can apply as a janitor. So I wouldn't know which side-inflow route to make possible. So I'm not suggesting this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u250	That's the motion in part No. 396. Do you have any more motions from Mrs Westerveld?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u251	Yeah, there's another Westerveld motion on piece number. 397 on tailor-made pathways for teaching assistants. This fits in with the regular training courses. The Committee on Education is also looking at this, but I too am certainly prepared to discuss with the existing training courses where more tailor-made work can be done. I said in my term that there should be tailor-made work wherever possible. So this motion gets judgment, Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u252	A brief question, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u253	That last one was nice. Then about the training of janitors. However, there are a number of mbo-training courses that train to be a janitor. That's what this is about. Schools should be given the opportunity to obtain a budget, as with the regular side-inflow scheme. That way, they can hire people who can do that. It's in the motion. So I don't really understand why that motion would be unnecessary. It is now the case that a lot of people can get to work at a school, but this does not happen, because there is no budget for it, among other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u254	In principle, you do not need a separate training course. And if you ask me to make a budget available to ensure that schools can offer mbo-training for janitors, then you've filed an uncovered motion. As a rule, we're not for that; never really. The motion in part No. I see 399 by Mr Bruins and Mr Van der Molen as a firm support in order to get this right. I'll make those conversations. This motion will be judged by Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 401 by Mr Heerema. I can follow the trajectory you're sketching here. As a general rule, it is wise to do experiments on a voluntary basis first and then the whole process. I think Mr Kwint said some sensible things about this too. We have agreed with the agreement of the Chamber that we are going to take a broad look at the system of competences. Even if you do so, the legislation surrounding the system of competences needs to be amended. Because you have to make someone who starts with that clear where they won't be allowed to teach later. You've got to figure out where the cesorship's gonna be. Can you teach in groups 1, 2 or 3, or only in 1 and 2? How are we gonna organize that? This also has an impact on the admission requirements. So it's quite something to start this experiment by 2020. I also wonder if there is an education that says she can do it all. I do not know if this is going to be a very successful request, but I will stick to my request to hold on until we have an initial picture of the committee. Then we also have a better idea of how to do this. In the meantime, trust that I will do everything in my power to take these steps as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u255	And what's the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u256	The request is to hold the motion. If that does not happen, I would advise against it here, but not because of the steps one wants to take, but because of the timetable. 'Cause there's really more to it than that. Finally, the motion in part No. 402. He's gonna get judgment, Room. In my view, I made it clear in the debate that I am very much in favour of allowing flexibility in training so that they can take part in training, and so that they can take part in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u257	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate, which we started at 11 a.m. I thank both ministers. I thank the Members of Parliament. I would particularly like to thank those who may have followed this debate on the Internet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-9.u258	We shall vote on the motions tabled on Tuesday 3 March.
