ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u1	On 13 September 2016, Mr. Peter R. de Vries collected and offered more than 135,000 signatures. Those signatures were intended to support this citizens' initiative. It is the fourteenth citizens' initiative that has been discussed in plenary since the introduction of this instrument in 2006. It is the second citizens' initiative of the Chamber as it stands. Today, Mr De Vries is here in the Chamber to present his citizens' initiative. Welcome, Mr De Vries. I would also like to welcome Mr Vuyk, of course.; I see that this is the case, as well as the Minister for Legal Protection in Box K, but also all the people who are following this debate from the public gallery or via the Internet. Mr De Vries will present the citizens' initiative from the outset. I'm asking the guard to escort him to the office. Mr De Vries, before I give you the floor, I note that the appointment with a citizens' initiative is that you will be given the floor and that you should not be interrupted. Members of Parliament are not allowed to ask questions either. I think that's what many rulers dream of. I give you five minutes' speaking time. Go ahead and welcome again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr President, Members of the House of Representatives, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for allowing me to speak here today in order to improve the legal position of Internet victims, cybercrime victims. Internet crime is among us. It has replaced the ancient bicycle theft from the first place. One in eight Dutch people is an annual victim of some form of internet crime that knows many qualities. There was no criminalist who anticipated this development some 15 years ago, perhaps even ten years ago. As a result, I believe that legal protection is lagging behind. Victims are literally and figuratively often in front of a closed door. The police are not doing anything, even today, with eight out of ten declarations, not even when it comes to obvious offences. Many victims of Internet crime are no longer reporting at all; a worrying development. Social media companies, Internet platforms, and Internet site operators, as well as banks, often, and not rarely wrongly invoke their own strict general terms and conditions in complaints, which would not allow victims to reach out to help, with the result that they have to do as little as possible, because that is, of course, the underlying idea. If they are accessible at all, because as a consumer, try to get in contact with the social media giants personally. I happen to have reported a number of times in recent weeks that some ten fake accounts of mine are on Instagram, with name and name, with photos, videos, private data, sometimes even with the predicate "official." Information is being disseminated and communications are being made, which gives the impression that all of this comes from myself, which is not the case. Some of these accounts have thousands of followers, so they're all being cheated. I didn't get any response to my report. The fake accounts are still on it. This is relatively innocent, Mr President, but nevertheless draws on the practice and stresses the need for action. The citizens' initiative has focused on victims of stalking, identity theft, revenge porn, sextortion, marketplace fraud and unwanted posting of sexually tinted private recordings. The perpetrators often do this anonymously, under false name or pseudonym, or using stolen identities. The possibilities to remove this incriminating content and also to find out who did this are extremely important. The average Internet victim cannot carry out a basic procedure to achieve this goal, apart from the fact that a procedure will soon last a year. The average victim of Marketplace fraud and identity theft does not turn to the Dutch Data Protection Authority, which may or may not justify a complaint after months of investigation. Something else has to be done. The Minister initiates a so-called ex-parte procedure. You read that in his letter. A procedure in which the person or platform who has placed the contested content is not called up and in which the judge can promptly issue an order for interim removal. That is a step forward, certainly, but I would point out that this will still require a course to the judge, a corridor that will not make the majority of the Internet victims in my view. In addition, the Minister immediately made the reservation that there should be no excessive burden on the courts. He also wanted to know what the cost was, and so it was necessary to start by looking at the size of the situation. That is very justified, but at the same time I have a dark brown suspicion of where this leads. I myself would much prefer to see the judge out of play as much as possible and arrange for an official police report to be sufficient, establishing the identity of the principal and also carrying out a basic check of the offences or unlawful acts, and then, with that declaration in hand, the Internet victims can ask the social media platforms to provide the data of the person who created the contested account or who posted the disputed information. This will work quickly and, in my view, will also have a major preventive effect. Because people who illegally post information will think twice when they know that their personal data is being disclosed after an official declaration, where they still feel rather untouchable and virtually free play today. Anyway, Mr. Chairman, I'm finishing up, because time's up. Members of the House of Representatives: action is required. I would point out that the citizens' initiative that my fellow crime reporter Simon Vuyk and I set up dates back to 2016. We have now arrived in 2020 and internet crime continues to rage. Something has to happen now! You have the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you very much, Mr De Vries, for your explanation, but also for the clear way in which you have explained your citizens' initiative. You do that as if you've been here for years and have been in debates every day, with passion and emotion. Thank you very much for that. Let us now go to the representatives of the people. I give the floor to Mr Van Nispen as the first speaker on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, let me pay tribute to this citizens' initiative, the initiative of Mr Vuyk and Mr De Vries. There is indeed a huge increase in Internet crime. We just heard that one in eight people gets hurt. It is also true that victims often feel abandoned and that they feel that the government is not there for them and that the police are not doing anything. That's a very recognizable sound. Maybe that's the first point. It has also disturbed me that we have waited so long for this to happen. Indeed, the citizens' initiative, signed by so many people, is 2016's. We had to wait a long time for the first cabinet response. I hope the Minister will be able to say something about this shortly, but I also think that we in the Chamber could have dealt with this a little more quickly. In this respect, we must also put our hands into our own bosom. Then I come to the content of the citizens' initiative on the Internet. I start with the bullying and then I come to the serious crime and the serious privacy violations. Internet bullying, of course, also involves bullying children among themselves. That's about bullying, saying mean things about each other, excluding each other from WhatsApp groups and threatening each other through games. That's what happens, and that's terrible. It can ruin children's school days and victims sometimes suffer from them later. This is, of course, primarily a task for parents and sometimes also for schools. However, we must also ask ourselves what more we can do in this as a government. I just got a story from a victim's mother. She said, "My son has been bullied on the Internet for a long time while playing games on the PlayStation. This has made my son even quieter and he has turned very much into himself. He developed psychic complaints and was afraid to go to school. He's 14 years old now, and it's been playing for years. You feel powerless as a parent, because you see your child sink further and further. We had to sign him in to the youth ggz. These problems are now so serious." Can I have a response from the Minister? Does he think that, as a government, we might be able to do more about this? When it comes to really more serious matters, as Mr De Vries has just explained, for example about revenge porn or serious privacy violations, more is really needed. In essence, I agree with the citizens' initiative. As far as we are concerned, the Minister's letter is insufficient. We have also had this discussion before. We have also tabled a motion on it before. As far as we're concerned, the government has to be there for victims when they need the government. I think Mr De Vries would not have minded if we had just asked him questions. This should not be formally allowed in the case of a citizens' initiative. I would have asked him if it was a logical procedure to give the victims themselves the information of the perpetrators, the suspects, of the privacy violations. Or is that more of a government task? I'm leaning towards the latter in that respect. We must make sure that the government is there for the victims, the government that is too often absent now and the police that does not pick it up. Where do you have to go as a victim now? Do you have to go to the Personal Data Authority? Do you have to go to the police? Do you have to call Facebook, Twitter or Google yourself? Why don't you step on it as a victim? That's the last thing you're waiting for, apart from the confusion you're supposed to go to. At the heart of the matter, it is also about access to justice. How can you enforce justice as a victim? Again, we have a lot of sympathy for the victim. Our proposal would therefore be to remove this confusion and to create a single point of contact, or one provision, if the Minister does not want to hear the word "stop shop'. I am not arguing for a new hotline, nor for any misunderstandings. However, let us now ensure that the police, in cooperation with the Personal Data Authority and, if necessary, with a judicial test, work for victims and that that violation is stopped. Let us make sure that internet platforms are forced to remove the material from the Internet. Let us follow it up if there are criminal offences and act on them. Let's advise victims on how to get compensation, for example. That's the three steps. The first priority is to remove the material, because if it continues to swarm on the internet for too long, you will only have a bigger problem. The second step is to assess whether there is a criminal offence. The third step is to advise the victim how to proceed with this and where compensation can be obtained. I think that is what should be done in this cooperation, with such a provision. We really need to help, protect and take care of victims of Internet crime. Let's support the victims of Internet crime. Once again, I very much appreciate this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I call Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. I am also speaking on behalf of the Christian Union, so today I am speaking on behalf of two parties. First of all, we congratulate the initiators of this citizens' initiative, in particular Mr Peter R. de Vries, who has made a glowing speech here today in which he has defended his citizens' initiative. Such initiatives are really democracy at its best. That is why it does feel uncomfortable that it has taken us so long to deal with this. I understand that people have been thinking about a reaction for two years, and that is worrying. At the same time, we can also see that a number of steps have been taken. Luckily, they haven't been idle. A number of improvements have been made, also thanks to the brave struggle of Chantal, the vengeance porn victim, who has drawn a great deal of attention to her position, because she did not find out who had put things on the Internet about her. In the end, all this has led to the criminalisation of revenge porn. In the end, it has become the law, and that has been an important step. The CDA submitted an own-initiative paper on internal summits one and a half or two years ago, which ultimately led to the Minister sitting at the table with banks. Mr De Vries rightly pointed out that banks can sometimes hide behind everything and that banks should be able to be forced to provide the requested information eventually. This too is a very important matter. Those banks just got the funding. If they block that, you've already taken a step. I am very positive about the question in the initiative to settle something that allows people to go somewhere, so that everything goes faster. In the Minister's plans I read about the ex ante procedure, which makes it possible to remove scattered images of people very quickly, because speed is of course of the utmost importance in this respect. Of course, it's still bizarre that platforms don't want to do this until the judge asks them. Data is also available to providers and other organisations, and they should be willing to help people themselves. I therefore ask the Minister where there is still light between what he offers to the Chamber and what the initiators have offered. How can we somehow provide a safety net? That is my specific question. I agree with Mr Van Nispen's dilemma: what is the danger if we give victims the data of the person who did that to them? After all, it seems a little like we are saying to the victims: figure it out for yourself now. Isn't that how we force people into some kind of self-direction? Is that what we're supposed to do? Or do we really have to make sure that the police get the victims out of the fire? My idea would be: find it more with the police, but also make sure that this can happen. Make sure that people who report them are also helped. This can be done with such a procedure, but make sure that the content gets off the Internet quickly and the police go after the perpetrators. The latter we have now arranged for revenge porn. And we try to force the banks to give them back the money when people are swindled. Otherwise, we may even have to take the most draconian measure, namely to take away their licenses from banks, because ultimately they facilitate crimes. As long as you go through with that as a bank, that bank will have to feel it eventually. We have talked about this on several occasions. I remain hesitant about civil law, because for a victim, Mr De Vries already gave that to Mr De Vries, a civil procedure is a real agony. How are we really going to help people with that? Indeed, it is no longer the ordinary theft on the street, it is the total destruction of lives over the Internet. I also want to know how things will be shaped when the appointments with the providers are made to remove that content. Then what are the sticks behind the door? Sometimes we are still endlessly talking about the notice-and-takedown procedure. Then it has been established that a crime has been committed, that the content has to be removed, that the judge has already ruled on it at times, but it does not happen yet. Then how do we actually deal with the providers in a way that will make them leave it out of their minds to do it again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Internet offers the opportunity to literally make life difficult for others in great anonymity. Increasingly, we are faced with brutality and intimidation. The boundaries are blurring between the physical and the digital world. Slutshaming, threat, identity fraud, posting sexually tinted movies and revenge porn lead to distressing and sometimes even heartbreaking abuses. The consequences are profound. It not only leads to mental problems, depression and stress, but sometimes also to suicide. I think about the 14-year-old boy from Enschede who put an end to his life when his private photo was placed on Instagram by others. This citizens' initiative calls for strengthening the position of Internet victims, and initiator Peter R. de Vries calls for a legal definition of the cases in which providers are required to provide their available account data, for example in the event of threats, identity fraud and the posting of sexually tinted videos of the account in question. We've been three and a half years. Why has it taken us so long to be able to talk about this great problem, with terrible consequences for victims? What has happened so far in this area? The Minister's doing research. Can the Minister include the position of vulnerable young people and, for example, those with learning difficulties? Is the Minister paying attention to multiple offenders? Not only those who place harmful content but also share it, as well as those who add a lot of harmful information or comments to it, share that offendership as far as we are concerned. Mr. Chairman. On social networks, victims often get the harsh judgment "own fault." This secondary victimisation, even in the case of obvious misuse of footage, increases the risk of trauma and social isolation and strengthens the shame to come out with it. Because of fear of victim blaming, victims are less willing to report an incident. GroenLinks fully agrees with the citizens' initiative's view that the position of Internet victims needs to be improved. Then we must act quickly. The only question is, how? Because it also evokes dilemmas. The last thing we want is for there to be a chilling effect of interventions on the Internet, i.e. reluctance to share things at all on the Internet. Eventually, it is not the provider, but the civil judge or criminal court who should determine what illegal, harmful, criminal content is. My question to the Minister is in what cases the removal of relative anonymity on the Internet should be applied exactly. Should victims be able to find out who their perpetrators are? Or are we playing it through the police, the justice system and the judge? In this respect, the proposal from the proposers is very interesting. I'm asking the Minister to take a serious look at that. Does it matter whether it is a case of stalking by the ex-partner or whether it is a case of file-building or something like Internet fraud? I also wonder whether Internet cases should not simply be approached in the same way as we have dealt with the analogue cases, in physical situations. Is criminal law currently sufficient to deal with this kind of digital crime? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. There is also no unambiguous complaint procedure, let alone a complaint counter where you can quickly and adequately ask for the content to be removed. Platforms do not feel involved in the protection of victims, while they trade and commercialise any conceivable information about users. That's incredibly harsh. What does the Minister think about asking social media platforms, like schools, to draw up bullying and intimidation protocols? There has been a commitment to step up the police approach. The number of digital detectives would be increased. What is the state of play in this area now? What about the current level of protection against Internet crime? Is there adequate enforcement now? Finally, Mr President. I would like to thank the initiator for his continued commitment to victims in general and Internet victims in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I now give the floor to Mr Markuszower on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Great that citizens take the initiative in the Netherlands and in large numbers call on the House of Representatives and the government to act. With a VVD, D66 or CDA in the government it has to be, because those are the parties of padding and wetting. Those are the parties who prefer to put social problems under the carpet or for themselves and ignore citizens as much as possible. This cabinet has already abolished the referendum, but fortunately not the citizens' initiative. Yet here too, the cabinet has devised a trick to ignore the citizens. In 2016, 135,000 people supported this citizens' initiative and only today, four years later, can we debate it on the basis of a note from the Minister. But instead of the Minister coming up with concrete proposals after four years of doing nothing, we read that he needs to get some more work done. So we still haven't got anything. Why does the Minister leave this behind for so long? Why did the Minister sit on his hands for years?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u11	Before people start to think that what Mr Markuszower is saying is all true, I do feel that it is important to give some counterweight to that. In my view, the PVV has also agreed to criminalise revenge porn, and the PVV has also voted in favour of taking a number of measures with banks after the CDA submitted a note on in-house intelligence. So it is a bit faint to be able to fill in again, while I think we can take a few steps. I'd like to address that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u12	Of course, where we can have acted as a chamber. But there was a citizens' initiative. Mr De Vries himself referred to the long term. Other speakers, such as Mr Van Nispen, did. Three and a half years ago, there was a citizens' initiative. 135,000 people call on the Chamber to act. I've seen the timeline, and I just see that in a month or so, the Chamber will send it all to the minister. Then it's on his plate with VVD Minister Van der Steur. Then Minister Dekker arrives and it's just another two and a half years. I actually think that is a contempt for the people who signed that citizens' initiative. I also think it's an insult to all the victims of cybercrime.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u13	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u14	That's what I'm saying in my speech. What a sacrifice for the initiators and what a contempt for the victims of Internet bullying. This citizens' initiative on Internet harassment was, of course, very much needed. Almost daily we read poignant stories about online harassment, extortion, threats, stalking, insult, defamation, slander, posting sexually tinted private recordings, often also of minors. We also know the consequences of Internet bullying. Something that starts with, for example, stalking can end in death. That could have been the case with the murder of the young girl Hümeyra, which we debated in the Chamber two weeks ago. That also started with online bullying, slander, threat and online stalking. Research even shows that one in three teenagers between 12 and 18 years of age has suffered from Internet terror. So it is really important that the Minister intervenes quickly and, as has been said, the Minister does not. He leaves in the middle what he wants to do about the cases that are not currently punishable, but annoying. Four years after this citizens' initiative, I have just said that he must have it figured out as much as possible. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, there are so many cases where the Minister can act already. There are so many cases left with the police, things that the police could have, and should have, picked up. As soon as Internet bullying hits criminal law, such as threat, the police have to intervene. As far as PVV is concerned, no discussion is possible. I ask the Minister why the police refuse to be able to track down and prosecute these criminal forms of Internet bullying. The Minister is responsible for this. Unfortunately, these are not just cases of Internet harassment that are clearly punishable, but nevertheless remain. For example, it is also about, as it turned out yesterday, very serious sexual offences such as rape. Suspects of rape are rarely prosecuted or sentenced to high sentences. More than 60% of rape reports do not lead to prosecution. Of that 40%, another 60% is dismissed. So in numbers, 750 of the 1,000 rapists just get away with it. Those few rapists who do get convicted get super light penalties. On average, they have less than a year and a half. There are even rapists in between who only got 21 days in jail. If this lame, actually criminal policy is already being pursued in the case of rapes, then you have to consider how this government lets down victims of offenders related to cybercrime. That is what I am saying to the signatories of this citizens' initiative. So can the Minister pledge to the Chamber and to the signatories of this citizens' initiative that as of today perpetrators of digital offences can always report, and that then the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and judges will actually detect, arrest, prosecute and punish the perpetrators? I'd like to hear it from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u15	Thank you, Mr. Markuszower. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u16	Madam President. On behalf of the SGP Group, I would like to congratulate the initiators, Mr De Vries and Mr Vuyk, on this important citizens' initiative. Indeed, it is clearly explained and it is about something. Victims of internet crime are looking for their rights, but on that road there are so many lions and bears. It is therefore a very good thing that we are thinking today about how to do this better. Action is required; I fully agree with that. Mr. Chairman. I also say that, if you go through that timeline, you have to see that this has obviously taken far too long. Everyone's already stumbled upon that. We can rightly blame the government for this. That's what others have done. What took you so long? But I think we should look in the mirror ourselves afterwards, because citizens' initiatives will be submitted to the Kámer. I believe that we should also be firmer ourselves that we should deal with them more quickly and that the government should be behind us sooner than necessary. Or we can do it without the government's reaction. At least that's what I'm attracted to myself when I see the timeline. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to the contents. The starting point for the SGP is that what applies on the street should also apply on the Internet. If you're threatened, if you're robbed, you're going to the police and you need to be able to take criminal action against it. And if you're being attacked on the Internet, it has the same impact and it needs to be able to correct what's wrong in the same way. In concrete terms, therefore, the illegal content must be able to be removed. And the unsub behind it just needs to be grabbed in the collar. I also like Mr Koopmans. His initiative paper on mutual privacy was also discussed. He has quite rightly raised this point and a number of steps have been taken. How can you do this before? I notice that we tend to expect it more quickly from civil law when it comes to the Internet. It would then be something between citizens. I think that is actually wrong, because the infringement of a person's privacy via the Internet is actually similar to what is just happening on the street. As far as we are concerned, the role of the government in the enforcement of criminal law is no different. I would ask for a response from the Minister. Colleagues have already mentioned that the necessary steps have been taken. But it also seems to be part of this subject that it all takes a long time. I see the chairman nodding here now. Maybe she was thinking: I made comments on this in 2008. That's right, I've also been reviewing these debates. You then asked if providers should not be able to be contacted earlier to simply make that account information available. We can talk about a lot of things around here. That's fine, and I totally agree with that. But there is also a very clear key point in the citizens' initiative: providers should be able to be legally required to provide data that will enable them to find out who did it. Now that seems a bit hidden in the total of the reactions. My question is whether the Minister would like to respond to that key point. That is a very sympathetic and positive point. Does the Minister also consider that it should be possible for providers to be legally required to provide data that will enable the unsubs to be identified? Finally, Mr President. So I would like a clear response to this key issue. But also a brief overview of what exactly is going on. Because if you're not careful, you're gonna lose sight when it comes to Internet crime that's causing people to get hurt. On the one hand, we have a tightening-up of criminal provisions, and on the other hand, revenge porn is an example of what is fine, but on the other hand, the discussion is about what matters we are talking about now, namely the legal obligation of providers to provide data. Thirdly, how is the criminalisation in hand and the possibilities for effective action given priority by the police? I would like a clear answer on these points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Van Gent on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mr. Chairman. We're talking about Internet bullying today, but I actually consider this term an understatement. Because when we talk about stalking, threatening and sexting on the Internet, we're actually talking about outright Internet terror. If you read or hear the stories of the victims, such as Nikki Lee Janssen, then the hairs rise. Especially their powerlessness leads to great frustration. I would therefore like to thank the organisers of this citizens' initiative for putting this issue on our agenda. Their request is clear: the legal protection of the victims of the Internet must be improved. For it is clear, as the Minister also acknowledges, that current legislation is not always directly applicable to the online world. We are therefore pleased that the Minister has indicated that he wants to extend the legal instruments in this area. In his letter we read that he wants to focus on two issues. Firstly, a simple, quick and inexpensive procedure will be introduced to quickly remove burdensome content from the Internet. Secondly, it must make it easier to track down the perpetrator of Internet terror. Mr. Chairman. The VVD believes that this approach can better help internet victims. However, I still have a few questions for the Minister. I realise that legislation is a slow and careful process, but we have been offered to the Chamber for three years since this initiative was launched. The victims benefit from a rapid and decisive approach. Can the Minister promise/say that he will come forward with measures this year? It is also desirable, as Mr De Vries pointed out in his report, that victims should be able to ensure that certain material is at least temporarily removed from the Internet after their declaration. Can the Minister include such an arrangement in his investigation which he is having carried out at the moment? We are also talking about Internet terror directed against individuals. But other illegal content is also being distributed on the Internet, which should actually be removed quickly. I am thinking here of anti-Semitic expressions or glorification of terrorists. My question to the Minister is whether the new instruments can also be used against such forms of Internet terror. Finally, Mr President. In his letter, the Minister explicitly referred to the initiative paper on the privacy of my colleague Koopmans. He's over there. There are indeed important interfaces. For example, Mr Koopmans already called for an urgent procedure so that victims of privacy violations can quickly have images removed from the Internet. In response to this note, the Minister replied nine months ago with measures to be taken. I would like to ask him about the progress of these measures. Mr. Chairman. We can no longer leave the victims of Internet terror in the cold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you, Mr. Van Gent. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts on behalf of D66. It's her maiden speech. As usual in this house: a maiden speech should not be interrupted. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a special moment for me. Three weeks ago, you sworn me in as a member of the House of Representatives. The occasion of my temporary membership is less pleasant. I sincerely hope that my colleague Raemakers will soon be fully restored. For me today, a dream comes true with my maiden speech in plenary. I once became active in local politics because I want to work for residents in a vulnerable position, for people who get less opportunities in life, for people who can't stand up for themselves, like today for victims of Internet bullying. As a councilman, I was allowed to do that as an alderman. Now I'm moving to national politics. I think it is honorable that I should be able to contribute to the next period as a member of the House of Representatives. I would like to try to reduce the distance between The Hague and municipalities and residents. I look forward to a pleasant cooperation in and outside the Lower House. Mr. Chairman. On October 10, 2012, Canadian teenager Amanda Todd ended her life. She was digitally blackmailed with nude photos taken by a Dutchman by pretending to be a teenager. In 2008, a 22-year-old man from Culemborg was convicted of hacking into young girls' webcams for years and blackmailing them with nude footage. These are very painful examples. I could give you many examples. Preventing and tackling Internet bullies requires an approach in several areas. Youth knows no other world than a world in which everything must be recorded and shared. The presence of digital devices such as webcams creates inherent insecurity. It also fits with a teenage brain or a feeling of love to sometimes go unthinking and regret it later. In most cases it ends with a sisser, unfortunately not in some cases. As a member of the House of Representatives and as a mother, I would like to protect everyone from these undesirable side effects of the frequent use of digital devices. Unfortunately, that's a utopia. That is why I think it is important that an initiative has been taken by Mr De Vries and Mr Vuyk to get this on the political agenda. A great deal of appreciation for that. The key word in cybercrime is "speed." Victims of cybercrime benefit from quick action, in the quick removal of incriminating online content, according to research. Although I fully understand that procedures need to be followed carefully, I miss the speed and sense of urgency in dealing with cybercrime. The initiative is from 2016 and it took three years for the Minister to request to explore an ex-parte procedure in which the other party has no participation. This procedure should provide a kind of superfast right to remove online content as soon as possible, possibly temporarily, from the Internet. We can now expect the mid-term report to be more or less accurate. Can the minister give us a hint of the veil yet? Is anything clear? If there are any answers, I ask the Minister. D66 believes that we need to find a proper balance. The police should be able to retrieve data from attackers more easily, but Internet companies should not simply release people's naw data. Can the Minister comment on how he sees this balance? Following a ruling in an ex-parte procedure, victims may claim compensation in separate proceedings. This is a good thing in terms of the legal protection of perpetrators, but it is difficult for young victims to pay for two legal proceedings. D66 is for access to justice for all people. How is the Minister going to ensure that people who are not capable can get their rights? Sometimes the identity of the bully is hard to trace. The Minister is now going to see if he can make voluntary agreements with platforms, but in practice this appears to be very difficult. Platforms operate globally. The Minister should set up a European pathway here. The Minister of the Interior and the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs already have a similar European trajectory. Would the Minister like to join us? In the letter of 28 January, the Minister indicated that he now had all the research reports on cybercrime. In the spring of 2020 he will inform the Chamber about the further policy plans. Can this include, for the sake of completeness, the feasibility study and the financing of the ex-parte procedure plans? Mr. Chairman. I'm closing with cyber security. Devices that people use must be made safer. This prevents them from being hacked and abused to blackmail people. For this, we need to make rules at European level. A motion of D66 has been adopted on this. How's the performance coming? Because we need to avoid Internet bullies being allowed to go as far as we can. Until this is settled at European level, D66 wants victims to be helped quickly. Everyone must be able to use the Internet safely. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u21	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Beuker. Congratulations on your lovely maiden speech. It's also very nice that you're holding your maiden speech on a special citizens' initiative. I see the whole D66 group has been pulled out. I also see staff who would like to congratulate you, but I have the honour to do so first. I shall suspend the sitting until 11.45 a.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u22	We will continue with the debate on the citizens' initiative "Tackling Internetpesters'. I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 135,000 signatures for a citizens' initiative on Internet bullying. This shows that there is a broad-based desire to act against illegal and unlawful expressions on the Internet. We also see this in a lot of numbers, recently again at the CBS. It is right and proper that Mr De Vries has drawn attention to this. You're only gonna be a 14-year-old teenager and get bullied at school because you're just another thing. You're always being bullied because you're not one of them. Empty bike tire, gum in your hair. You used to be able to go home. Then you were safe at home. Then you went home to play in the attic. Nowadays, you do that on a computer or on your phone. What's changed is that it also brings in bullying behavior. I myself had quite a cut when I was Secretary of State for Education and had a lot of conversations with children in classes. In each class there are two or three children who are structurally bullied and do not really want to go to school because they no longer feel safe. That is very similar to the subject we are discussing today. Pest behavior occurs not only in young people, but also in adults. But the idea is that it is increasingly translating into online. In an app group of a class suddenly photos and so-called jokes appear, which are not funny when it comes to you. On Marketplace your bike is offered, with your telephone number and the code of your number lock. Your parents are suddenly worried because a fake message appears on Facebook that you are involved in a serious accident. These aren't made-up things. This just happens in practice. We have seen this in the television programme created by Mr De Vries and his colleague. What are you supposed to do? Then where can you go? With your parents, with your school, with the police? The answer to that is actually three times yes. Everyone has to take their part and do something about this. This is not a problem that can be solved by a single authority. However, it is evident that it is not enough at the moment, especially not to remove the annoying content from the grid. That's what keeps it going. It is also not enough to obtain compensation and compensation when suffering has been caused, and to obtain the data necessary for that purpose. Mr De Vries's citizens' initiative puts the finger on the sore spot. Indeed, we have to note that people who are involved in this are not always right when the illegality takes place online, only after a great deal of trouble or sometimes even at all. So me and the cabinet are also embracing this citizens' initiative. The initiators argue for a legal definition of the cases in which providers are required to provide the account information at their disposal. Indeed, it would help victims to know who is the sender of illegal content, so that they can take steps. Mr. Chairman. I might want to go a step further. We shouldn't just mop up to limit the water damage. We also want to turn off the tap. We want the continuation of bullying and the circulation of the material on the Internet to stop. In addition to an obligation to provide account information, the cabinet also focuses on the rapid removal of content. At the request of your chairman, I have three blocks. The first is a look back. A lot has been asked: the cabinet is already doing a lot, so can you look back on that? That is true, but I note with your Chamber that we have been waiting far too long for us to respond to this citizens' initiative. I don't think there's a good reason for that. So, as far as I'm concerned, I apologize for that. It doesn't mean we didn't do anything. A lot has happened in the meantime. I will come back to that in the first block. The second block deals with the core of the citizens' initiative, at least the core as I read in the citizens' initiative on paper: clearly standardising the obligation for providers and platforms to make account data available in certain cases. The third block is about something that the citizens' initiative is less about, but I think it is necessary to complete the circle: the need for a rapid removal procedure. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked: where is the light between what the initiators want and what the cabinet wants? I don't see that either, two, three. I agree with the point of explication towards platforms when they have to give data. This has already been mentioned in the case-law. I am looking at ways in which we might have included this in legislation. So I don't see any light in that. In fact, on one part we continue. Perhaps the only point, to which I shall return in the second block, is the suggestion made by Mr De Vries behind the speaker's seat: is a declaration not enough to get that data or delete content? I can see some complications for that, but I will come back to that later. Mr. Chairman. The first theme: where are we? I would like to take you into what the cabinet is already doing and what intentions there are to protect people from unlawful acts on the net. Following on, I will deal with illegal content and various forms of illegal but not criminal content. It's a theme where three jurisdictions of criminal law, civil law and administrative law come together, for example when you're talking about privacy violations. First, illegal content. With my colleague Grapperhaus, your Chamber is talking about combating obvious illegal content: child pornography, discrimination, hate speech, terrorist content. Should an online expression fall into one of these categories, all kinds of agreements will come into force, which have also been made in a European context, such as in the field of online hate speech. The government intervenes on the Internet when it comes to child pornography. The police are actively looking for online child abuse and that can be reported. Online discrimination can be reported to the Internet Discrimination Contact Point and terrorist content is detected by specialised police teams. Social media platforms have made their own reporting capabilities more accessible and agreements are made on prevention, quick removals, so-called notice-and-takedown procedures, and on reporting illegal content to police and public prosecutors, using so-called "flaggers." The online Children's Porn Contact Point is one of the agencies that can report this to providers where there are agreements that they will get rid of it quickly, which is actually getting better. Internet bullying has many appearances and can range from very serious criminal offences to sometimes less serious facts, gamble facts. The Public Prosecutor's Office always decides which cases are to be prosecuted. It is just not always as clear when there is illegal content and therefore it becomes more complicated where, for example, the criminal law provision clashes with fundamental rights as with freedom of expression. In an insult by a cabaret or a critical article by a journalist, you actually end up on a playing field where you would still like a judge's ruling on how these conflicting rights could sometimes be united or what weighs most in a specific case. In addition to the cases covered by criminal law, there are the unlawful expressions which are not by definition punishable but which may be unlawful in another way for a person concerned. Many of the behaviours in the wider category of bullying are eligible for such qualification. I just mentioned the example of a fake ad on Marketplace with your bike or an improper death ad on Facebook, which is really horrible and you don't really want to know what that does to people. It is not necessarily a criminal offence, but I do believe that the victims should be allowed to get their rights, because in some of these cases there is indeed a tortious act. In other words, where does humour end and unlawfulness begin?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u24	This was a general introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u25	I'm not quite done yet, but if I can finish it...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u26	I think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u27	Here is also the individual explanation of the victim around the corner. What one finds a funny joke, another does not like at all but is deeply insulting, grieving with a huge impact on life. Then the question is, how do you deal with that? Sometimes you don't get away from asking the judge to judge you. Then there's the privacy laws. In many cases, our privacy legislation will be a very important measuring bar. That is why you received the cabinet response to this citizens' initiative at the same time as the progress report on the initiative taken by Mr Sven Koopmans to pay more attention to horizontal privacy. In response to his proposal, I have also taken a number of measures which are actually very much in line with what the initiators are proposing. Complaints can be submitted to the AP. For example, the AP may impose a processing ban. For example, if the journalistic objection is invoked, the AP is not competent to judge the complaint and you have to go to a judge to ask how to deal with those different interests. With this I conclude this theme. Then I'll go into what we can do more on top of what we're already doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u28	Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u29	This is gonna fall into the block about what we're doing right now. I understand very well that the Minister says that there is a category of wrong jokes that may or may not be unlawful. That can be very complicated. But we also have the obvious offences. That's what the Minister said. So I would like to go back to criminal law, because I have a question about that. How does the Minister feel about that? We hear, among other things, from the initiator, but of course we also know the stories of victims, that people report to the police with sometimes obvious crimes committed on the Internet. It's about Internet crime. There are all kinds of imaginable ways of doing that. And we still hear about nine out of ten... Well, if it's not nine out of ten, it's ten out of ten. But we hear from these people: we're being sent away. Or it is said that your case is at the bottom of the pile, because we have no capacity for this. Does the Minister recognize that? The minister said something about talking to the D.A., but where are they gonna lead to? How does the Minister feel about tackling online crime in criminal law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u30	I think the honest answer to that question is that it's also something that the police need to grow. It's also growing hugely. For example, look at the use of specialist teams or how internet crime at the Police College is becoming more and more part of the training. Look at the attention that is paid to victims in the individual assessment, as it is called. Last year we dedicated extra capacity to this, so that the police can also spend more time with the intake on the story of a victim. That is not just to get the case on the ground criminally, but also to see what someone needs, for example, to take further steps. So that's something that's developing. I therefore agree with what Mr Van Nispen and Mr Van der Staaij said: it should not really matter whether it is happening in the digital world or in the physical world. Criminal offences are criminal offences. If you want to report it, you must always report it. That is also the policy; people are not stopped from reporting. At the same time, there is a real difference in the gravity of the things that are put forward to the police. There are obviously serious issues. I already gave it to you: terrorist content, child pornography, and so on. Of course, we've also made revenge porn a criminal offence. That too will soon be caught more by the police. There is now also a legal title to take that up. But sometimes the evidence is difficult. Sometimes it's very complicated to find out who's behind it. Sometimes it's also about unsubs who are abroad. Considering all this, and in conjunction with the fact that the police must also consider the capacity of what do you put that expensive human force into? Is there a case-by-case examination with the Public Prosecutor's Office: is there any reason for further investigation? So yes, you should always be able to file a report, but a report will not always lead to a closed case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u31	I think everyone understands that a report doesn't always lead to a closed case. But it's true now that a lot of reports eventually lead nowhere. That makes sure that a lot of people don't press charges anymore either. They do not have the confidence that a case will then be looked at seriously. If it's really bad, it is. But even with the simpler offences committed on the Internet, you should actually have the confidence that the government will do so. I understand it's developing. And yes, the problem is growing. But if a lot of people don't have the confidence that something will happen to it, then we don't even have the figures in order. So we don't know how many aren't reported. So we need to work very hard on this. It's not a problem yesterday either. This has been growing explosively for years. So I'd like to hear the Minister on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u32	I agree with Mr Van Nispen on this point. Yeah, it's got to grow, but that's no reason to say you shouldn't do it now. I also have the impression that the police are taking this more and more actively and can also make that weighting. At the same time, and so is the physical world, there are forms of crime where the declaration is recorded, but where the follow-up is difficult. Take bicycle theft, for example. It's very annoying and it'll just happen to you. I had it the other day; you're really sick of it for a day and yet the police say: we have so little reason to investigate it, that it's very difficult to follow it up. That is the balance that must always be made. However, we must prevent it from happening here and there too in the physical world, because people say at some point that there is no point in reporting, because then we lose sight of the figures. So from the bike to the crimes on the Internet, even if they are not super serious, i.e. not in the category of child pornography or terrorist content, if you feel that there is a criminal offence, report it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u33	It sounds a bit like it all has to grow in and there is still a lot of time left, while of course this problem is very much in the interest of a quick approach. The same applies to enforcement capacity. We have been promised an intensification of the police approach. The number of specialist digital detectives would be increased. How's that going? Because it's really important that this gets higher on the police priority list.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u34	That capacity expansion is coming up. My colleague, Mr Grapperhaus, also spoke to the Chamber about this. We are dealing with a dip, after a number of events last year took a huge bite out of capacity, for example for protection and security. There too, we must always look at what weighs the most. This cabinet pays hundreds of millions for extra capacity, for extra agents. This also has its effect when it comes to the opportunities to act against Internet crime. Mrs Özütok's group has rightly tabled a motion to release additional capacity for vice detectives. There is not only a physical variant, but of course also an online variant of that. I really have the impression that it can help to pick up more of these cases there. I believe that Mr Grapperhaus will soon inform you about the expansion of the vice teams, because you cannot just open a look so that those people are there. Those people need training. But with the extra money that has been made available in the budget, we can work on increasing capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u35	Finally. Is there adequate enforcement? That is, of course, the crucial question in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u36	In enforcement, you will always have to make choices because of scarcity. Even if we add a billion to the police, I do not believe that this has solved the capacity problem. At the same time, I think the knowledge should be there. When you act in the physical world, you also have to act in the digital world. With the capacity expansion that this cabinet is working on, more space will be created to ultimately also shape criminal enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u37	I would like to give the Minister a cup of coffee with the initiators, because I think he will find out even more how very different these two worlds are, how many people don't even report, how many people think nothing's going to happen, how many people think that maybe something's going to happen to them, but eventually come home from a cold carnival. When I listen to the Minister in this way, I start to think: should we not think about a national rapporteur on internet crime or Internet crime, someone who will look at what we have, what we do and what path we go on over the next five years? Because after the things the Minister said and after our own note on internal summits, I am beginning to feel that one way or another it is not possible to force us to go down a certain path. Would the Minister consider whether a national rapporteur on this particular issue, Internet crime, could have added value?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u38	I'd be happy to consider that. I would also like to take it back and put it to my colleague who is responsible for the police. I myself am always a little reluctant to place such a rapporteur outside the organisation, because that is another argument for the police to say: we have invested it with a rapporteur, so that's it. I believe, on the contrary, that the detection, including in the digital world, the intake, the acceptance of declarations, and the serious analysis of the problems in the organization's capillaries should come back. It is clear to me that there is still a lot of work to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u39	No, because I believe that the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings has acted as a sort of driver and has ensured that a lot of steps have been taken that might not otherwise have been taken or would have taken much longer. It was someone who was outside, but when some kind of critic looked at what we did every time, that tested and indicated what didn't happen. We're kind of stuck in some kind of well-being thing. Our President-in-Office is well aware of the need for the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings. So I am beginning to think that we should not have a national rapporteur on internet crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u40	I think that's an interesting idea. I'd be happy to think about it and come back to it, along with my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u41	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u42	Mr. Chairman. I come to the heart of the citizens' initiative. What about the role and responsibilities of providers and platforms? At the moment, people who want to see content removed can, among other things, go to providers and platforms that have the content that has been violated online, and that is what Mr De Vries rightly notes. Because do you choose to remove an insulting tweet now or do you prefer freedom of speech? Platforms and providers require clarity. When exactly should they delete and when should they provide data to victims? This means that we are now a number of steps further. For the provision of naw data, a standard was established in 2005, although not in the law, but in the case law. The judgment in Lycos v Pessers of the Supreme Court provides that a number of criteria may be examined. That's four. The first: platforms must provide account information, such as naw data, if it is sufficiently plausible that the content is unlawful. Two: the victim must have a real interest in obtaining the data. Three: it is likely that in a specific case there is no less significant measure to retrieve the data. Four: in view of the interests of all concerned, consideration must be given to the fact that the victim's weight is the greatest. There is no doubt that this will be the case in the cases mentioned at least in the citizens' initiative. In my view, the standard of the Supreme Court for the provision of naw data by providers and platforms is clear. The question is whether we should not repeat it further. When I read Mr De Vries' letter, that's what he's asking: codify it, because then you'll also make it clearer to platforms when they just have to give it, when they're obliged to hand it over. Actually, I'm in favour of that. Even now, the court for interim relief will order the provider or platform to provide that information if the criteria of the Supreme Court are met, but its adoption in law means that providers and platforms can no longer hide behind the lack of a legal standard for the provision of data and therefore sometimes sit back too far and say: I will do nothing until there is a court order. If the law is more explicit and clearer, it can help victims. I still have to study how that can be done. This has to do with the fact that the liability standards for providers and platforms are set out in the 2000 eCommerce Directive. At the time, the e-commerce directive was intended to provide ample scope for this type of service. The directive is therefore based on very limited liability and leaves little room for further standardisation by the Member States. However, the Directive explicitly provides that a court order is possible and that a provider's duty will arise, but it is unclear whether additional rules can and may be adopted at national level within the Member States. At the same time, the world has not stood still. It has also changed digitally since 2000, even when it comes to the attitude direction: how do you deal with these kinds of platforms? Twenty years ago it was: give them all the space and above all don't smother innovation. I see now that there has been a change in the wind, and it is also said that these platforms also have a social responsibility, and they also have duties. We should perhaps lay down those duties more clearly. The Commission is currently reviewing the eCommerce Directive. It's expected in the last quarter of this year. I will inform the Commission that the obligation to provide naw data under certain conditions will be an important point for the Netherlands in the revision of the directive. This is often the most effective way of working: not waiting for a proposal to come from Brussels and then react, but talking to the Commissioner concerned in the front. That's what I'm gonna do for a start. In the meantime, I will look into whether there is scope to include criteria of the judgment of the Supreme Court in the Civil Code in anticipation of this provision. Anyway, the best thing would be, of course, if that were to happen at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u43	It is good to see this movement, because that is indeed at the heart of the citizens' initiative. The Minister says: I am open to laying down this also legally and not just on the basis of the ruling of the Supreme Court. Is there no urgency in the light of the enhanced privacy rules? Is it not even more important to have a very clear legal basis in the light of the GDPR in order to enforce that? That is a point that is also touched by the citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u44	That is true, but I do not have the impression that the reason for not giving that data is now limited by the GDPR, because there is a judgment of the Supreme Court, which actually pretty well lists the criteria under which the data may be provided. The GDPR also contains provisions that you may and can provide personal data under certain conditions. So I don't have the impression that the GDPR is in the way here. I have the impression that there is case law that has not yet been codified and that platforms and providers sometimes hide behind it too easily and say: we will not do anything until the judge forces us to do so. While you might also expect platforms and providers to say: this is the law. You can also decide for yourself and you can also proceed to it yourself, where something is clearly illegal or obviously illegal against those involved. Then you will always have doubts about which a provider also says: we find this complicated, so let the judge rule on that. But where there are offences, where there are real crimes, it is always, by definition, illegal, and you could use it as a provider to submit the data.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u45	I think it is indeed open to discussion to what extent it can or cannot be done. Those who, in my opinion, want to go in the wrong direction can say: the GDPR assumes that there must be very explicit legal titles. If there aren't, we don't think we're gonna stick to it. For me, it is an additional argument to say: come up with explicit legislation. But the Minister has already said that we want to, but then we just have to see if all of this can be done at European level. When can we expect more clarity about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u46	I think I can provide it around the summer. There are then two routes and then we have a better view of the Brussels route. Is it being taken in there? Then I can also have the analysis done whether you can include it in your own national regulations. Or is it contrary to the Brussels provisions? Actually, that's what it's all about. I fully agree with Mr Van der Staaij that this clarification of course always helps. There are also lawyers at platforms, who can no longer say: it is not in the law. What I want to avoid, and that is why I am so clear about it in this debate, is that we say: it can only be done once that clarification has entered into the law. You know how long a legislative process takes. Then we give these kinds of platforms an argument to sit back and say: we do nothing. The case law is very clear. I also appeal to their responsibility. You don't have to see a judge to give that data first. You can do that now, too, if there is an obvious illegality towards the victim or a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u47	Please continue. I wonder where you are right about now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u48	Mr President, perhaps I can take one thing out of it. That is the suggestion made by Mr De Vries whether a declaration would not be sufficient to provide that information. I find that suggestion complicated in that sense. If there is a criminal offence, then in almost all cases there will also be an illegality against the person concerned. Therefore, there is an obligation for the platform to provide that data. The declaration alone is not the determination of a criminal offence. We also live in a country in which we want to make a report to keep it low-threshold. We want everyone to press charges, but in the end there will have to be a judgment of the Public Prosecutor or a judge to establish that. We also have to watch out for the next one. Before you know it, someone who is not happy with a particular message on the Internet will report it and will use that report to find out a lot. That way, we'll take the judicial test all the way out. I do not think that declaration is sufficient to provide data or delete data. I think we should make it clear that if there is a criminal offence, or a suspicion of it, the providers must make the assessment of whether there is something more going on. Of course, this is also a trade-off that the providers can make themselves. Then they can help such a victim by providing data. As a platform or provider, you don't need the court ruling to decide for yourself and to decide for yourself. It is also, once again, the call to the providers to take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u49	As I understood Mr De Vries' request, it was also an explicit request that, if there were a declaration, it could be a ground for at least temporary removal. That's what I've been asking about. I say explicitly "temporarily." If there is another review afterwards and it turns out that there is no illegal content, you can put it back. I understand the Minister when it comes to maybe not making the unsub public right away. Is it true that you could delete content temporarily with a declaration in hand?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u50	Still, I find this difficult. I will come to the accelerated procedure for content removal later. I do not think you can wait weeks or months for that, as with intellectual property, because then it is already so widespread. So we have to come up with something, if you have a key where you could have that removed. At the same time, of course, making a declaration is very low-threshold. There are also reports of things that are not ultimately criminal or unprovokable. If we leave that judgment with the police, you'll get exactly what we're trying to prevent, which is that the police have to determine whether something is of any consequence. I think this is a complicated point. Suppose someone is dissatisfied with something that is actually freedom of speech, which you understand is not funny, but which is not a criminal offence. If it is then easy to go to the police, report it and then ask for removal in the hand, then that is a huge violation of our basic principles on free press and freedom of expression. I understand your point. I find this report too low. I think that in order to establish that we need to go to another procedure. At the same time, I believe that if there is a criminal offence and if that is established, there is reason to do so. Here's what I'm gonna say. Suppose someone knocks on the door of a provider and says, "I filed a report and this and this and this is what's going on." If, as a provider or a platform, you see things that you say aren't right, you don't need a police or a judge to find out for yourself that that is not possible and that there may also be a good chance that there is a criminal offence, then you can of course just give those data. That provider shall have the authority to do so. In fact, if he did not do so and refused to do so, he would run the risk of acting unjustly himself. As a victim, you even have a title to eventually go to a provider or a platform to say that there is an unlawful act. That's a bit of the dilemma we have: this is how the law works and where you can get right, but for a lot of ordinary people, going to court is a huge step. So I prefer that those platforms and providers look a little more with a human eye at the seriousness of the notifications and the questions they get on their plate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u51	At this point, however, I should like to say a few words. Of course, this low-threshold is extremely important. The Minister said in his letter that he had an investigation conducted into instruments and procedures. I also understand the dilemma; I also see the other side. But can the Minister at least take this issue into account in this investigation so that we can really make a proper assessment of the pros and cons?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u52	Yeah, I'm willing to. I will ask the WODC whether this is already included in the investigation into the possibility and feasibility of such an ex-parte procedure. I can imagine that, in the event of suspicions of criminal offences, the need to act quickly, as this will almost always, by definition, entail unlawful acts, may be a reason for taking such an expulsion action. But then you will have a test from an independent body to determine the unlawful act. In my opinion, that doesn't belong in the police house. Mr. Chairman. I come to my last block, which concerns the removal of content. I think the explication of standards is when is there for a platform or provider the obligation to remove? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, But of course that doesn't mean you're here yet. If there are photos of you circulating on the internet that you don't want to see on the Internet, you just want them to go off as soon as possible. Speed is therefore required, because that content is all multiplied and before you know it, it has gone abroad, also to places where the long arm of Dutch law can no longer come. So this is about the removal of illegal content. More and more people become aware of the content when it is multiplied. I would therefore like to make sure that the crane can be turned off more quickly, in concrete terms that the illegal content can be removed quickly, possibly even before the unsub is out of date. Those are two things that are separate. For the removal of unlawful content, the Civil Code contains a legal standard. It comes from the e-Commerce Directive, which I have just spoken about. If providers or platforms know that illegal content is being offered, they must act promptly and promptly. Article 196c of Book 6 of the Civil Code states that this unlawful content must be either removed or reasonably required to take measures to prevent its appearance. If providers or platforms do not do so, they themselves act contrary to social care and thus unlawfully towards the victim. At the moment, people who like to see content removed can basically go to Internet platforms and providers. After a notification from the victim, the provider is aware of the content. It still has to assess whether it is unlawful. In obvious cases disposal may be carried out. At least that applies to illegal content. That's how it should be. But we know that unfortunately this does not happen in practice, even in the most obvious cases. Often it will not be evident whether this is illegal content. In that case, you're facing a dilemma. I'll understand that. In case of doubt about the unlawfulness, a provider may be less willing to act without a court order. But what do you do to give more protection to victims of obvious illegal content? Mr. Chairman. I think it is right that an easier procedure should be put in place for the removal of illegal content and Internet bullying. I am referring to proceedings before the civil court, because that is where you have to go when it comes to illegality, so that the content can be removed as soon as possible, even if it is not yet known who posted it or who is behind it. Getting quickly removed is precisely why the WODC is investigating the practical feasibility of such a fast procedure. This order may be directed at the platform or the person to delete the content, without the parties being called upon to do so, the so-called ex-parte procedure. So you don't have to have two parties, as in normal civil law, but then you can, in a manner of speaking, put in place a procedure for the person who comes forward with it, so that a decision can be taken quickly and a preliminary order for removal can be made, in order to put an end to the privacy breach. I expect the results of the survey around the summer. Mr Van Gent asked whether he could expect proposals from the cabinet this year. Yes, because that is another reason for me to ask whether this provides sufficient guidance to set up such a procedure. Can it be practical? What do you have to legalize? And yet, what does it cost? Can it be within the existing procedures of justice or do you need to free up additional capacity and additional budget for this, also in order to have an orderly decision on this kind of thing? Those are things we need to know as politics. With this step, we can stop the spread of illegal content faster and prevent Internet plagues from continuing. Mr. Chairman. That's one side of the story. The other thing I'd like to say is this. We have the legal framework and the law is clear on parts. But sometimes this one isn't clear and you're gonna have to pass a judge. But what are you gonna do as a victim if it's obvious, but you're gonna stand in front of a closed door? You want to go to Facebook, but where can you go? You want to go to a provider, but where do you find the entrance? Where can you find the number, the address, the place where you can report your complaint or grievances? That doesn't change the fact that you're in your right. However, I do believe that providers and platforms also have a greater social responsibility to face this and to respond to such reports. I'm also going to talk to the platforms to see what they can do to lower the threshold to take these things seriously and take them on. I will also appeal to them for their social responsibility and not only to them that the law on a number of parts is clear, but also that, if they do not comply with the law, they risk acting unjustly towards victims. In this way, if they cannot catch the person who posted the content, victims can also contact a platform or a provider who has simply acted too slowly or not. I believe that we can be clearer in this and that we can and should address the platforms that facilitate this more and more clearly. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my speech. I suspect I've answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u53	Thank you. In doing so, we have reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought it was a nice debate, because this was about a citizens' initiative which I believe is a wide-ranging one. Once again, congratulations and appreciation for this citizens' initiative. I also liked the Minister's answer. I also believe that we are clear: platforms must no longer hide. I also liked the Minister's saying that he is going to explicitly include this standard in the law. Until then, it is indeed not an argument for providers that they can do what they want, because that standard is already there. I think this is a gain from this debate. I'm still very concerned about the capacity. It may have become clear from my interruption that I am concerned about the police capacity and capacity in the Public Prosecutor's Office, because people must also have the confidence that something will happen to their case when they report it. Sometimes there are obvious offences and if nothing is done about them, it is of course very bad for the trust of victims that the government is there for them and ultimately for trust in the rule of law. Where can you go as a victim? How can you get your rights in a quick, not complicated and affordable way? In short, how do we organise justice? That's what the next motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas swift and appropriate action by the police, the Personal Data Authority and Internet Service Providers in the event of serious privacy violations and online crime is of great importance to victims;]] [[Considers that victims of privacy violations should be given rapid and easily accessible advice from the police and/or the Dutch Data Protection Authority and should be able to file a report in order to quickly put an end to the violation and to be able to enforce their rights;]] [[welcomes the initiative's call to improve the position of victims of Internet plagues;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure an accessible facility, where victims of internet crime and serious privacy violations can report for prompt and good advice, the privacy violation on the Internet can be quickly terminated on their behalf and, if possible, the criminal journey can be started,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Nispen, Van Toorenburg, Van Gent, Özütok, Van der Staaij and Van Beuker-Huijbregts.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34602-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u55	We must not leave victims of Internet crime in the cold. The citizens' initiative has enabled us to discuss this again in depth. Hopefully we can also agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u56	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. According to the list of speakers, Mrs Van Toorenburg should now be given the floor, but I would like to ask the Members of the European Parliament if she is okay with her being the last speaker. Oh, her motion's already here. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u57	Mr. Chairman. We have had a good debate and we have heard from the Minister that a number of important steps are being taken. We co-signed a motion from the SP. This debate has really grown to me the idea that we should be more aware of what steps we are going to take. Gradually, I have become increasingly convinced that we need to come up with a national rapporteur on Internet crime, someone who, like the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings, is going to look at what is happening. I've looked at the terms. I took the law with me for a second. It simply says that the national rapporteur reports on developments and on the impact of policies. He reports to the government whether those effects of policies are ultimately effective. Actually, I think it's a good idea. I also think it is very nice that the Minister would like to take part in this. The complicated thing is that I have not been able to ask my colleagues whether they wanted to co-sign my motion, whether or not a national rapporteur should be considered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u58	You can always do that. They'll have time until Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u59	Then maybe we can do that. I'm gonna take a shot at this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of registered crimes has increased for the first time in years and that the cause of this has been the high increase in online crime;]] [[noting that many offences have shifted from the physical world to the Internet;]] [[noting that many measures are being taken to do justice to victims and victims;]] [[noting that it is particularly complex and that many further steps will need to be taken;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether and how to set up a national rapporteur on internet crime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34602-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u60	If we look at Article 1 of the establishment of the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings and replace 'Human Trafficking' with 'Internet Crime', then I think we have put in place someone who can really be annoying to us to make sure that we do justice to victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u61	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply. It was indeed a good debate. It is good that we are still thinking about and taking action in this way to improve the position of victims of crime on the Internet. I am grateful to the Minister for his commitment to the core of this citizens' initiative to legally define the cases in which providers are required to provide their available account information. The Minister said that he was in favour of this and that he was reporting on it before the summer. This commitment is the reason why I abstained from tabling another motion on this point. I also think it is a good point that Mrs Van Toorenburg has raised, to see if we can't learn from the experience of the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings, by systematically getting an idea of where there are still problems and getting on with it. So I also like to support that thought. Finally, I would like to tighten up what I said in the first term. We also talked to the initiators about the fact that I said: "What applies in the world of the Internet must be punished in the same way as what happens on the street, because the impact is equal." They rightly said: "In fact, often even bigger on the internet, because it can haunt you even longer what's on it". So that is just an additional argument to take what we have discussed today seriously and take new steps quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u63	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Van Gent on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u64	Mr. Chairman. I've been listening very carefully. In any case, I believe that we should do so very much as Members of Parliament, especially if a whole citizens' initiative has been taken. I think the call from the initiators is very clear. We're seeing the growth of the Internet. We are also seeing an increase in crime on the Internet. The call is for more legal protection for the victims. Then I listened to the Minister in detail. I have the impression that I know for sure that he is prepared to take steps, but at the same time he also has reservations about the clash of fundamental rights, a question of capacity and a question of knowledge. I really hope that these two worlds can get even closer together. The term 'worlds' belongs to Mrs Van Toorenburg, whom I actually thought applied. So I really hope that we can expect concrete measures in the legal instruments that would allow us to tackle Internet terror much better. I asked two more questions which I did not receive a clear answer to. The first question was whether we could also use these instruments more broadly. I'm gonna ask you that question. Perhaps it can be taken into account in the investigation, for example when it comes to glorifying terrorism. Finally, I would like to ask what progress has been made on the note by my colleague Mr Koopmans. As far as I am concerned, the Minister may also inform us by letter of the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u65	Thank you, Mr. Van Gent. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Congratulations for the debate, too, from our side. I think that the initiators have also got the feeling that the sense of urgency is at least a little more present in the Chamber. At least I experienced that myself this morning. I thank them once again for the initiative they have taken and I sincerely hope that they will continue to keep it under our attention. Thank you also to the Minister for answering some of the questions we have asked and also for the commitments. It is good that the Minister is going to Brussels to ask for extra attention for Internet bullying in the old e-Commerce Directive of 2000. I understand that France and Germany are very dominant in this debate, so it is a good thing that the Netherlands is going to take action on this more quickly. I also welcome the Minister's commitment to come forward with a survey in the summer, so we are hearing a little more about the reconnaissance he had carried out. The only thing I haven't had a response to yet is my comment on cybersecurity, and in particular on how we could make the devices a little safer. I asked what progress has been made on the implementation of the D66 motion on this matter. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u67	Thank you. That also brings us to the end of the second term of office. I look at the minister and ask him if he needs a short two-minute suspension. That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u68	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u69	Two motions have been tabled and there are still a few questions I have failed to answer in the first term. Mr Van Gent asked whether the instruments could be applied more widely, including for example to terrorist content. We have talked a lot about civil law instruments. This applies to all content that is unlawful. You could say that all illegal content is virtually unlawful by definition. In that sense, therefore, this is taken into account very widely. That would therefore include the forms Mr Van Gent was talking about. He also asked about the Koopmans note. I thought I recently briefed the Chamber on the state of play. In any case, before the summer, I will come up with a more detailed progress report, in which I will write about all the parts of the letter we have written about it. Mrs Van Beuker asked about the motion of D66. I couldn't figure it out in the two minutes of suspension. That's also really about cybercrime, and how you improve the security of devices, online cameras and things like that. I will ask my colleague Grapperhaus about this. I know there is a lot going on in that area, but I do not know exactly what the motion is about. I will ask him to return to you in writing. Mr. Chairman. Two motions have been tabled. I'll start with the first, in part no. 3 by Mr Van Nispen and another very sad spokesperson. This is a broad-based motion to achieve a low-threshold facility. I'd like to leave that judgment to the Chamber. But I would like to make the following point. As far as I'm concerned, this is going to be the ultimate goal we're going to grow to. Because this isn't settled from today to tomorrow. This calls for the merging of civil and punishment. We have that WODC investigation that's still going on. But I actually think it is a good thing that after such a debate we say: I understand, this is not one-two-three arranged, but if we really want to go to some sort of recognizable point for victims, then it may be whether it is a criminal offence or whether it is just a very serious problem for them. These people just want to go somewhere. If we could somehow combine that, that would be nice. So I can agree with that, with that timetable. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. Mrs Van Toorenburg's motion, too, I would like to give the Chamber a ruling, because that gives us the room to see if and how it can be set up. I also see the comparison with the rapporteur on trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u70	I'm very grateful for the judgment room. Of course, I am going to do my best to ensure that as many MPs as possible are behind this, because I think this is something we should do together as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u71	It is also a very nice initiative of yours, Mrs Van Toorenburg. This has also brought us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u72	Mr. Chairman. Thanks, too, to the initiators. It has taken us a long time to have had this debate, but I think it underlines the need and urgency once again and that we have added a number of additions to the letter I sent you earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u73	Thank you. On behalf of the Chamber, I would like to thank Mr Peter R. de Vries and Mr Simon Vuyk for their initiative. It is also very special that they have received 135,000 signatures from ordinary citizens in order to strengthen their initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u74	Next Tuesday we are going to vote on the two motions. I will inform you, Mr. De Vries and Mr. Vuyk, by letter about the outcome, but given the ruling of the cabinet on the motions, I think this will be positive. Thank you very much.
