ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u1	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Rudmer Heerema, on behalf of the VVD, for his question to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media, whom I would like to welcome, on the high level of absenteeism among pupils from poor families.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Education has been a great achievement in recent months. Within a few days after the schools closed indefinitely, it was made possible for almost every child in the Netherlands to receive lessons at home. But unfortunately we also saw that there were not or hardly any students in the picture, and even disappeared completely out of sight. We have been concerned about this as a Chamber in broad composition, because if the most vulnerable children disappear from the picture, that is a reason to worry. It is therefore a good thing that our primary school children have been able to go back to school since 11 May, but the vulnerable children, who really need this most, do not come to school anyway. On this basis a number of questions. First of all, how many children are still at home right now? Are these children in the picture with the compulsory education officers in their municipalities? And in what way is there contact with the parents? The article from the Volkskrant also shows that of these children parents with Moroccan or Turkish backgrounds often follow Moroccan or Turkish television, and on the basis of that information and the measures in Morocco or Turkey seem to keep their children at home. Is it true that vulnerable children with a migration background are kept at home? And does the Minister agree with the VVD Group that it is precisely because of this that the educational disadvantage of these children is only increased? So what measures is the Minister going to take to get this group back to school as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u3	I now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Heerema for his questions. In fact, last week the schools opened up again. I can tell you that over 96% of the 1.5 million children who were allowed to go back to school also went to school. Indeed, there is still a number of percent, that is to say about 4% of the children, some 50,000, as shown by a very good study by the school leaders' association, which is still at home. That's a very diverse group. There are children among them who are sick, there are children in which there is a family quarantine at home, but there are indeed children among them who are kept at home by parents because they are concerned and do not want to send the children to school. We know from the major cities in particular that in certain neighbourhoods and schools there are indeed sometimes even high concentrations of that particular category of children. What is at present the approach is that these children and parents are approached through the municipalities and the compulsory education officials, but also the schools. We know who they are, because so to speak, the empty chairs in the rooms can now be found. Through the door contacts and door visits we try to find the connection with these families again, and where possible they try to do so because if they are ill or in home quarantine, we cannot get them to go back to school. You know that the Chamber has adopted a motion from the PVV and the Labour Party, even unanimously. That motion indicated that no fines should be paid if parents kept their children home after the May holiday. At that time, the Prime Minister also indicated that we will report it if we change that. We're still at a stage where we're really trying to get them back to school. There will be new investigations this week. I will also keep you informed of its progress. We hope, of course, that we can get the group that can go to school, but the parents of which do not dare, as soon as possible, as small as possible, preferably all the way to zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u5	It is good to hear that at least the Minister intends to ensure that these children can return to school as soon as possible. Yes, indeed only 3% or 4% of these children are at home, but in some neighbourhoods in the Netherlands they are 25% to 30% of a class. It has to do with the composition of the neighborhood around such a school, so we may also be able to take specific measures for that. It's nice to hear that there are door contacts, that children and parents are tempted to go back to school. But if parents do this on the basis of information that is not from the Netherlands but from other countries, I think it is important that at some point these children are told that they should come back to school. The point is that we are taking the step that this fine, which we are not currently handing out, can be given later, so that children can just sit back in class. This includes the following question. When we opened up primary schools, made it possible again to go to primary school, schools had quite a lot of room to shape them. If we decide later that the secondary schools should also be open, could the Minister perhaps be a little tighter on them, in the sense that we should ensure that schools deal with them more clearly so that as many children as possible can receive lessons? Because if that hasn't happened for two months now, that doesn't happen in the month until the summer holidays and then there's six weeks of summer holidays, with less or no lessons, it's gonna be really hard to get those kids back together. I know that there are additional resources available, especially for this particular group of children, but the smaller we can keep that group, the less resources we have to put in and the better it is for those children.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u6	I can only confirm the latter. Of course, that's the bet. You indicated in your first words that we are planning this. No, this started immediately last week. There was even a category of parents among them who didn't realize in the first days that the school had opened, because somehow that information hadn't come to them, even though they had been communicated in a variety of ways. So I sincerely hope that this week's figures will give us a slightly different picture from last week's figures, although of course we were happy with the high percentage that went to school. But every kid who sits at home when they don't have to, of course, we just want to get into school. Mr. Chairman. Then it's secondary school. If the opening-up is further extended, it is of course also true that it is the commitment to give children the room to go to school. Of course, we want to prevent the backlogs, if there are any, from getting bigger. That's just part of how kids can go to school.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u7	Mr Heerema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u8	Finally. We know who these kids are, because those tables at school are empty. So we can visit them. Parents are now told that it is wiser to go to school, because there are no arguments for not doing so. If the following studies show that the same children are still being kept at home, can I assume that this follow-up measure indeed comes: children should just go to school and if you don't go, will there be a fine? Is that report made to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u9	It was your Chamber itself who, by means of a motion adopted unanimously, indicated that there should be no repressive action. The Prime Minister asked me to tell you that I thought it was Mr Wilders who asked him very explicitly that the Chamber would get a report on it when the time comes for us to do it differently. Of course, we also keep that promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u10	Firstly, I do not think that the President of the Youth Education Fund is very pleased that this statement is being used, put out of context and then used for his own agenda. This is a question of educational disadvantage. That is what my question to this Minister is about. Children who are already lagging behind in education are now at risk of becoming more disadvantaged because they do not go to school. I wonder whether the Minister is aware of this, whether he is concerned about it and, if so, what that means for the education deficit policy and the Minister's approach to eliminating educational disadvantages.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u11	Surely Mr Kuzu will not have noticed that, from the very first week that schools were closed, the cabinet acted directly to ensure that this connection was made with this vulnerable group of children. We've done that in all kinds of ways. I refer you to two fairly comprehensive letters which we have sent to the Chamber which contain all the measures. We shall continue to do so without delay. It does not apply to all children, but if there were risks of retardation, they have indeed become larger rather than smaller in recent weeks. Kids had a lot of lags. Last Friday, the cabinet also decided to make additional funds available again, for the short and longer term, to support very targeted programmes for this purpose. This is therefore without prejudice to our great attention. These kids deserve that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u12	Mr Heerema rightly calls attention to the group of children who have not come to school. This may indeed have several causes, but the fact that PVV and PvdA's motion was so widely supported had everything to do with respecting the legitimate care that parents may have in relation to their children's health. We have said that we must be cautious about this. This does not mean that there would then be no kind of compulsory education or homework for those children. It just stayed there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u13	And the question is, Mr. Bishop?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u14	That is the point that could simply be maintained. Is that the direction in which the Minister is thinking when it comes to enforcement? Does he want children to be guided to school and, if not, to follow the program at home?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u15	From the door contacts that are there, that is what I call them.Of course, we also need to get a grip and get a look at the arguments that parents have. It goes without saying that if children do not go to school now, they must be taught at home and distance education continues for them as well. This also applies to the days when the children are not at school and are at home. Those are not days off; no, we would very much like to support the schools there, so we also support the schools in the same way that they continue to learn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u16	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this Question Time. Question Time lasted almost an hour and a half. I don't know what that is, but okay. There is therefore a great need to ask questions to Members of Parliament; that is clear.
