ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u1	Let's move on to the debate. We are missing two more ministers: the Minister for Justice and Security and the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u2	It's the second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u3	Yeah, the second time. I'll keep track of it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u4	In order to compensate, I will be very brief tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u5	We all heard that, didn't we? Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u6	I give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The corona virus is touching all of us. Thousands of people have become ill or died. Partly shutting down parts of our society has significant economic consequences. Companies see their sales take a dive. People lose their jobs. In a wave of infections, we ask for the utmost of our care staff. From young to old, loneliness is felt by fewer social contacts. Measures to combat the virus intervene extremely deeply in our society: keeping a safe distance, working as much as possible at home and avoiding large groups. That is contrary to how we really want to live, namely: free. The virus isn't gone yet. In fact, it's clearly back on track. We absolutely must avoid going back to the situation in March and April, with overcrowded ic's and many victims. This would lead to more grief, more action and more damage. Mr. Chairman. There's no question that we need to fight the virus. To do that, we have to make agreements with each other, from a distance of 1.5 meters to a mouth cap on the train. But how exactly do we arrange this legally? That is what the debate is about today. As far as D66 is concerned, there is a need for a solid legal basis for the measures, with proper democratic legitimacy and control, with a proper balance between all interests and always considering the reduction of fundamental rights and not going beyond what is necessary. In order to achieve this, we need to further adapt the bill we are talking about today. To this end, we are making a number of proposals today, together with seven other parties. I'll get back to you on that. Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the need for this law. That's why I'm gonna look back first. Since March, the instrument used as the legal basis for the corona measures has been the designation of the VWS Minister on the basis of Article 7 of the Public Health Act and the emergency regulations drawn up by the presidents of the 25 security regions. This legal construction has raised many questions with my group from the outset. Those questions are at the heart of two main issues. Firstly, democratic control. It is very limited, both regionally and nationally, because the chairman of the security region only sends a report to the councils of the affected municipalities afterwards. But it's a little bit like that. So the role of the city council is very small. The role of parliament is also limited, although the parliament can of course question the Minister of VWS about his use of Article 7 Wpg. Still, he's actually the captain on the ship. He decides and the Chamber has few formal instruments to counter that. The second objection is that some of the measures contained in an emergency regulation infringe our fundamental rights, for example the right to freedom of assembly and demonstration and the right to private life. Those emergency regulations are not appropriate for such an infringement. It is not easy to restrict fundamental rights. This requires a sound legal basis. Neither the Municipal Law nor the Public Health Act provide an adequate basis for the long-term restriction of fundamental rights. Those objections are actually supported by almost everyone. And for those who doubted it: the opinion of the Council of State of May 2020, following the Van der Staaij/Jetten motion, is crystal clear. The emergency regulations are not enough now that the virus is still among us. A more solid legal basis is needed. Mr. Chairman. A law to deal with the objections is therefore very welcome, but not every law is automatically good. The consultation version that circulated in the spring made the eyebrows frown at D66. Our main concerns were the lack of involvement of the Court of Justice, which was then sent only after a fixed ministerial arrangement, namely the maintenance behind the front door, the level of fines and the long duration of the law, then another 12 months. We weren't the only ones with reservations. Other groups, lawyers and many people in the country also had strong reservations. So the government had to get to work. In the version submitted to the Chamber at the beginning of July, a number of those objections were addressed. For example, the maintenance behind the front door had been removed, the duration of the law was limited to six months and the role of the Chamber had been strengthened by a veiling procedure and the adoption of the Council of State's opinion to inform the Chamber of all measures taken on a monthly basis. In doing so, the Chamber has already gained much more position. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to one of the most important points, I think, of this law: the democratic legitimacy and involvement of the Chamber. In the fight against a global and rather erratic virus, impact is indispensable. A virus that is growing exponentially relates very badly to months of discussions, but, of course, far-reaching measures require good democratic involvement. That is simply a field of tension. Although the balance in the legislative proposal has already been better taken than in the consultation version, my group does not think it is good enough. I am therefore pleased that all coalition parties, GroenLinks, the Labour Party, the Reformed Party and 50PLUS have managed to find each other in a number of amendments that better guarantee democratic legitimacy and control. These eight parties have joined forces to improve this necessary law considerably. An amendment by ourselves reduces the duration of the law to three months, so that government and parliament should regularly discuss the necessity and proportionality of the extension of the law. The question of whether this law is still necessary will be put on the table every three months. The bill provides for the Minister to take corona measures through ministerial arrangements. The Chamber could then debate this, but could not stop it at the end of the day. Mrs Buitenweg's amendment provides for a possibility for the House of Representatives to reject a ministerial regulation. Not only does this mean that the House of Representatives has the last word, but it also underlines the need for the Cabinet to continue the discussion with the Chamber. Formally, there is still no right of amendment; materially, it is very close. My group therefore wholeheartedly supports Mrs Buitenweg's amendment. The amendments tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Van der Graaf increase the provision of information to Parliament and advise the Council of State on a possible extension and further strengthen the requirements of proportionality and proportionality. These are also important additions, which we wholeheartedly support. Mr. Chairman. Democratic control is not only of national importance, but also of local importance. The bill will make the mayor more important. The role of the presidents of the security regions will be reduced. This will also give the city council more opportunities to exercise control. The law explicitly states that the mayor is accountable to the board on the policy based on this law. However, there are still a few questions. Besides the mayor, will the college be well involved? What about the case where we are forced to scale up again because the virus is increasing, and the security region is playing an important role again? That is why D66 supports Mr Van Dam's amendment. This states that the mayor must ensure that the college and the board are involved in the definition of the corona policy. It also notes that the President of the Security Region is accountable to the Board in the event of a need to scale up. Mr. Chairman. The corona measures prohibit behaviour that is completely normal under normal circumstances. D66 therefore welcomes the fact that the government agrees that enforcement is really the final step. After all, it is preferable to convince people, not to punish them. But the reality is also that sometimes people run around with the rules and can harm other people. Are the sanctions in place? Are they in place? It is good that the government has recognised that lower detention for violation of the rules on safe distance is in place. It must really be an appropriate sanction. It is also to be welcomed that the fines for these offences will no longer be on the so-called judicial documentation, the criminal record. D66 considers, however, that these most serious measures for individual citizens are still threatened by excessive sanctions. We therefore support Mr Veldman's amendment to reduce the fine for breach of the safe distance rule to €95 and to limit the rest of the fines for natural persons to the maximum fine of the first category. Mr. Chairman. Especially at the beginning of the crisis there were uncertainties. What exactly is allowed and what is not? The government has therefore rightly looked at the definition of the term "detain," which plays an important role in both the safe distance rule and the prohibition of group formation. If you happen to run into someone on the street, is that gonna stop? Is the one-and-a-half-meter rule broken? The answer is: no, it must be somewhere for some time. That doesn't make accidental encounters within that five-foot radius a criminal offence. The government has rightly also exempted aid from the safe distance rule. It can't be that someone who provides first aid gets a fine. Fortunately, that has now been clearly adapted in the law. The government also looked at the concept of "the same address" in Article 58f. That is important, because people living at the same address do not have to keep their distance outside. We understand from the government's answers that students and people in residential groups can also be seen as people with the same address as, for example, they have the same facilities, but formally a different house number. I would like to hear confirmation from the Minister of Justice on this point. Mr. Chairman. One of the most important other concerns of D66 is the position of people in healthcare institutions. They are obviously very vulnerable to the virus, but we have also seen that the measures often hit them hard. In practice, well-meaning measures such as bans on visits lead to people being isolated and sad situations arising from people at risk of suffering. For example, I read a story in the media about a gentleman who could no longer visit his demented wife in the nursing home. That is extremely harsh and extremely poignant. Or we hear stories about kids and grandchildren that Grandma and Grandpa couldn't visit. Therefore, in Article 58, the government has rightly paid a great deal of attention to these problems. In response to many questions from parliamentary groups, the government also writes that it recognises the need to prevent a general ban on visits. I would like to hear the confirmation from the Minister of VWS that he is doing everything possible to prevent restrictions on visits. And if so, I'm assuming I'm getting that confirmation. How is he going to handle it? I ask him to clarify whether I understand correctly that people in nursing homes and in care facilities cannot be banned from going outside, or at least not without the intervention of the judge. I'd like to hear a response from the U.S. Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Brenk's amendment deals precisely with this problem. That amendment aims to ensure that people can always be visited by at least one family member or close friend, unless there is no other way, and that people who are terminally ill can always be visited by family or relatives. My group therefore wholeheartedly supports this. I do have a question for the cabinet. Who exactly decides what a neighbor is? If people don't have family or friends, but they do have that caring neighbor, does he get access? For example, this can play in hospitals with people who are lonely and in the final phase of their lives. It would be very unfortunate if you were to have the discussion about who has access and who doesn't. I'd like to hear a response from the U.S. Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. The temperature of the debate on the corona measures has recently risen high in the Lower House, in the newspaper columns and in television programmes; in our society. It remains a constant search for what is the best approach. And quite rightly, many critical questions are being asked. But where these critical questions go crazy in conspiracy theories, the debate becomes distasteful. The government must act if the health of all of us is in danger. In fact, the government is obliged to protect public health. We're not reckless with human lives. Comments about "dry wood" or other derogatory remarks about vulnerable people simply do not fit our society. We're not gonna drop anyone and we're not gonna write anyone off. And we also have to be honest: we don't have all the answers. We try to base our efforts on scientific insights. We are trying to cushion the economic impact as much as possible through a comprehensive support package. But there's also a lot that scientists don't know. And sometimes there are differences of opinion. We are right to ask people to cooperate as much as possible on the corona measures, but it is also clear that some people are not prepared to do so and thereby endanger the health of others. The government must put maximum effort on clear communication, on good testing facilities, and on voluntaryness. But if there's really no other way, the government should be able to intervene. With this law, we provide a solid basis for these corona measures and bring the discussion back to where it belongs: this Chamber. And I am actually quite proud, Mr President, that it has been possible to reach agreement with eight political groups on such a complex issue and under these circumstances. That gives you confidence. Together we can handle corona. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u8	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The corona virus draws deep traces into our society. So many people have already become ill, so many people have already died... We've all seen it around us. Others lost their jobs or saw their business go under. We have had many debates in recent months. Each time it became clear that the virus makes us humble. Life isn't as fixable as we thought. Today we still experience a lot of limitations with each other. Moments of joy and sorrow you want to share with others: a graduation ceremony, a wedding, a funeral. In the first few months, that was almost impossible. It can't go on now or just with the necessary ifs and buts. Difficult. Painful. It's hard to hold on. Should we throw all the corona measures overboard? The SGP is not for that. The risk of hospital flooding with corona patients and overburdening care is too great. We are also seeing the contagion increase again at this time. You shouldn't think about the fact that there aren't enough ic-beds available. Stopping all measures would also not do justice to the threat that corona still poses to the elderly and people with chronic diseases. It is becoming increasingly clear that Corona can also take out young people for a long time. So no, don't just stop. Yes, urgency. At the same time, however, the question is always fully justified as to whether the measures are really necessary and proportionate. The importance of health must weigh heavily, but must not and cannot go at all costs. You also have to keep pressing the test: do these measures not destroy more than we like? Do they not limit our constitutional rights and freedoms beyond what is really necessary? The SGP has always stressed that the corona measures should not go beyond and should not last longer than is strictly necessary. This requires careful consideration of freedoms, rights and values. At the end of the day, the representative of the people must have the final say on this. Early in the corona crisis, we put our finger on this. The instrument of the emergency regulations implementing the corona measures was acceptable at the beginning of the crisis. Legislation wasn't available yet, and if you have an acute hemorrhage, you just need an emergency bandage. But if you leave such an emergency bandage for months, something goes wrong, especially when you realize that the corona rules in the emergency regulations contain a far-reaching and long-term restriction on constitutional freedom rights. The SGP welcomed the clear opinion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State which Mr Jetten and I had asked for in a motion. Corona measures require a specific legal basis, the Council of State concluded. When the immediate need is over, the restoration of normal democratic relations is urgently needed. In the country, we rule not by ministerial orders but by legislation, with Parliament having the final say. This is at the heart of our rule of law. For me, therefore, the motto is also with this law and this treatment: without law, the delusion of the day threatens to seize power. Mr. Chairman. I indicated why we said quite quickly: yes, we believe that the emergency regulations should be replaced by a law. I must say that we have been surprised by and also a little annoyed by the way the law came about. Through consultation versions came out that raised questions, misunderstandings and resistance. For me, it was kind of a half-public trial. We didn't know because that wasn't presented "these are the plans and this is in it," but society heard about it through very critical reactions from people who had a consultation version of the plans that hadn't been made public yet. That's how it was in the early days, if I remember correctly. Of course, that didn't help to support the law. I wonder how the cabinet looks back on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u10	I very much agree with these words by Mr Van der Staaij, but the lack of support and the creation of unrest was of course not only in the way the draft law came out. This was also reflected in the content of the draft law. Does Mr Van der Staaij share the analysis of the SP that the content of the first version of the law, namely that the rule by decree was actually laid down, not only as an emergency link, as you say so beautifully, but actually permanently, perhaps still one of the main concerns of people, regardless of how that happened? Isn't that what caused the unrest?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u11	That's a fair question. I find that my speech is logical, because I would come to this very point, to the question of whether it was just the process. No, that came out too, and so did we. We felt that too many powers were too limited to the Minister, that the national and local parliaments were too out of play, and that it was unclear what the perspective was for the end of the law and the return to normal relations. So it wasn't just in the process, so of "had it better presented, everything would have worked out well," but also those critical notes were of course justified. Perhaps it is also nice to have a little understanding for the other side, for the government side, because in times of crisis it is often difficult to have such a parliament that has to find something and everything. It takes longer and it gets more complicated. It is really nice to set the lines with a small team very clear and sharp, so "that's how we're gonna do it." It can very quickly hit the impact of all kinds of measures. That's not bullshit, but at the same time Roos also says... We had a nice meeting about the moment when the House of Representatives first got back together after the Second World War. I noticed that the liberation had been over for some time before Parliament met again. It's been over for months. Why? Because it was said: in crisis time it is difficult; wait a moment, wait a moment with that parliament. This is also not an incomprehensible reflex in history. For this reason alone, I certainly do not belong to those parties that say: if we do not pass the law, we will put pressure on the kettle. I don't think so. Then the government says, "Okay, if you don't want a law, we'll continue with the emergency regulations." It is precisely in the interests of democracy and the rule of law that we adopt this law. I believe that this can also be the analysis of the law as it stands today, including amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u12	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u13	Mr. Chairman. In response to this interruption, I have already told you the next part of my contribution. That was: if you are very critical... Let me be honest with you that, as you're getting so much comment on that law with the election in sight, I was thinking, what are we getting started on? Because that law is just a little symbol of evil. Then what are you for... Well, let's not give it any qualifications, but it's not convenient just to be here for it, because it's much simpler to say: we shouldn't restrict freedoms; get rid of it! And the government also gives cause, because she gives the ammo and you're ready to shoot. Above all, you should not try to make amendments to make the best of them, but you just have to boo very hard and then run away. I thought, "Well, I can't do that." Perhaps it will result in more votes in favour of this report, but that is not what we are here for in the end. It is about what is the best approach in this crisis. If we are to say that we cannot deal with the emergency regulations, but that we need to see how we can get a better law, then we also need to look at how we can fundamentally improve them. There's enough confusion as it is. I myself began to spout amendments. Others also came with it. I saw very nice amendments by Mrs Buitenweg and Mrs Kuik, who made a very good point of strengthening the role of Parliament in this. But I thought you'd run the risk of getting a battery of amendments. Are we gonna get any new confusion? How is all this supposed to be put back together? That is why we joined forces with a number of parties and said: "We actually see the same problems. We want more involvement of Parliament, more guarantee of fundamental rights and a shorter duration. How can we do that?" That is where this set of amendments came from, with which we have said and accepted: yes, this is how we improve the law in such a way that we can safely say yes to this law. We can really have that conviction, and we're not doing this as a kind of maybe and "well, that's the way it is." No, to be honest, I am getting more and more enthusiastic about it, when I see the amendments with the legislative text together. That is simply a real improvement on the current situation. There is one procedural thing left for me and then I am at the end of my introduction. I withdraw my amendment to part No. 19 in. That could not exactly be replaced by one of the other amendments. The amendment in part No. 19 concerned a shorter duration of an extension. I can withdraw that from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u14	The Van der Staaij amendment (Doc. 19) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u15	Mr. Chairman. What is dear to the SGP are the safeguards laid down in this law to protect the freedom of religion and the right to privacy. On the basis of this law, no restrictions can be imposed on group size in divine services. This is due to the fact that the church, like the home, which is also very much protected by this law, has traditionally been a state-free area that enjoys constitutional protection and where you do not want to act as a government enforcer. It is therefore a good thing that the government has committed itself to exempt buildings and private places as referred to in Article 6, second paragraph of the Constitution from the designation and command powers set out in Article 58l. I do have a bit of a technical question about 58n. People have drawn our attention to that. If it is not reasonable to attach a similar derogation to Article 58n, I would ask the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u16	First of all, compliments for the play just now. You almost convinced me to vote for you. But we are not going to do that, because there are also fundamental points of difference between us. This also affects the point of interpretation of the Constitution. You say that the Constitution regulates, I agree with you that the government should not enter a church building, but does this also mean that the government should not make demands on how many people there are in a church building, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u17	This law does indeed say that the group size limitation does not apply to religious meetings, also under the Constitution. I share that view. So that means that the law should not include a strict standard on that. It does not mean that ecclesiastical communities are not expected to contribute to the fight against the virus. It has everything to do with the constitutional issue of the separation of Church and State. The discussion also highlighted why it was so strongly regulated for the churches and for the confession of life, which was added to it in 1983. It is the oldest fundamental right and we have had a lot of hassle in the past around the freedom of churches. Until the 19th century, because of limitations in size, people still ended up in prison, because they met with more than 20 people. So there is a great deal of historical sensitivity and it is very fundamental to values, of which we, not the SGP but us, have said in the Constitution: these are places that we want to give very special protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u18	I understand that, but that wasn't exactly my question. In any case, it is stated in Article 6.1 that, except by law, there is freedom of religion. But you also have Article 2 which says no entry into churches. I respect that, too; that's what it says. So that's clear. My question was: does the fact that there can be no enforcement action because you cannot enter a church, that you cannot make demands on the number of people allowed inside? You can imagine that you can say that there can be no more than 300 people in the church, for example, as demands are made on associations. The right to association is, of course, also a fundamental right. Suppose requirements are imposed on the group size and that this finds a legal basis in a law, is that possible? That is something other than that there can be enforcement action within a church.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u19	My thesis is next. The one and a half meter rule also applies to churches. That rule, which has been in force for a long time now, is a significant limitation of the size of the group, which I consider proportional in the weighting of fundamental rights in this time of crisis. This means that sometimes only a quarter to a third can be present in a church. This is an example of a standard that is proportional and thus reduces the group size in a church. However, I think it is too much of a violation of that constitutional freedom to say that a certain standard must apply wherever and everywhere, regardless of the size of the church, because it is now a crisis. I do believe that this is part of the freedom of the churches. But it is also the responsibility of the churches to make choices in this respect, in good consultation with the civil authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u20	So you say: it is quite possible in itself that the government limits the number of people who can sit in a church. In this case, for example, by ordering the one and a half meter measure. As far as group formation is concerned, you say that you are uncomfortable with it, because it is quite undifferentiated. After all, one church is much bigger than the other. Of course, this also applies to theatres: one theatre building is also much larger than the other. This is not so much the principle that the government cannot make demands on it as that you consider that the specific proposal of the group size is not sufficiently differentiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u21	Yeah, for a part, I agree. Part of it isn't. Whether you have a group size restriction for a snack bar or a church makes a difference, also constitutionally. You can arrange it for a snack bar on the basis of delegated legislation, and for a church it cannot do so in that way, from that freedom of religion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u22	Finally. I wouldn't have drawn the comparison to a snack bar. I would like to compare it with an association and an association building. They are also protected, because you also have freedom of association. Is this comparable, according to Mr Van der Staaij, so that the size of the group should not be so undifferentiated, which could be an infringement of freedom of association? Would you put the freedom of association at the same level as the freedom of religion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u23	Association is weaker in the Constitution. I think it would be better to compare it with a meeting and demonstration. This is more likely to affect the ability to criticise. There are greater numbers of political meetings and demonstrations, given the particular importance. Political meetings and demonstrations are not subject to the same restrictions as the diner. I think that's right. So you can see that there is a lot of differentiation. At first glance, it looks like it's 30 everywhere, but not at the churches. But if you look at the picture a little more slowly, you can see that it's a much more differentiated image. It's different at airports, too. Nor do I hear anyone say that the rules now state that you may meet up with up to 100 people for necessary meetings of an institution or company. There are exemptions for the cultural sector. So it's actually a very diverse picture. I would find 30, just for a restriction of the freedom of churches, really too far-reaching. This does not fit in with the very precise consideration required by this fundamental right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u24	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u25	I have already said that there is no doubt that ecclesiastical communities can also be expected to contribute to the fight against the virus. They have made great efforts in recent times to apply and enforce corona guidelines carefully. I have a lot of respect for this. Partly because of this, the risk of infection in churches seems fortunately very low at the moment. You see a much higher percentage of infections in home situations, hospitality situations and work situations. I think that the question of how to hit the virus most precisely should always be taken into account in the measures to be taken. We have always argued for as much customization as possible. I think that customisation is also really important for maintaining support. I say the following: if we know that it will be resolved in two weeks, we can talk a little easier. You can go there a little deeper. But if you know that all this can take a little longer, then customization is important. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, the Minister indicated in June that he comes with customization and that the approach of a maximum of 30 people, regardless of the size of the building, was over. We discussed this yesterday in Question Time. It has hurt many people that following all the commotion of Sunday now seems to have been rushed to dump the custom thought overboard. I have looked back on the explanatory memorandum of the law. On page 33, I read the following: "With this bill, the government wants to ensure that the exercise of fundamental rights, even in the event of a virus revival, can proceed as far as possible. This legislative proposal therefore provides that any restrictions on group formation do not apply to religious gatherings, but also to demonstrations." Mind you, I repeat: even in the event of the virus getting back on its feet. This law therefore makes the choice, precisely in view of the fundamental rights review, to provide more tailor-made services here. This is done not only to touch the virus as accurately as possible, but also as a constitutional duty. My question is: how does this starting point relate to what happened on Monday? How much is the exercise of fundamental rights, as laid down in the law, worth if urgent and far-reaching advice is given under great pressure to scale up again? That is why our wish is for the Minister to talk to the churches again to see what is possible in the Corona Act from the point of view of custom.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u26	I understand very well that Mr Van der Staaij raises that point so prominently. At least I'd find it weird if he didn't. Now the point is that I think there is some difference between the church hallway in the supporters of Mr Van der Staaij and perhaps the church hallway in my constituency. Although, I was in church last Sunday with 23 men. With Mr. Van der Staaij I hear numbers of 600, so you have a completely different story. What I think is a very important discussion in this area, which is perhaps not always understood in orthodox circles, is that a lot of Dutch people do not make this a fundamental rights discussion, but simply think: "I can't go to the theatre, the football club and you name it, but they do go to church." I feel that, too. I get that. Maybe you'll have less of this if you experience the church differently. Can Mr. Van der Staaij explain how this is experienced by him or his supporters? All those others must deny themselves the theatre and so on. Isn't that also a relevant part of the social debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u27	Yes, I certainly recognise that as a very relevant part of the social debate. I also understand very well that people who see large numbers in church services frown and say: why not for my pleasures? If you see the divine service as some kind of charade, it's not surprising that you want to see it treated in the same way as the theater. But if you see the divine service as something that is the most essential thing in your human-ness... And it's about people who, of course, also have to deal with restrictions for gyms, restaurants, travels and so on; that's what I can count on myself. They're not other people; they're the same people. If this is considered to be very substantial, it is actually the most essential thing in life; it is therefore not for nothing so strongly anchored in our Constitution................................................................................................................................................... It is precisely in crisis time that this is perhaps even more experienced as the place to find peace and experience that God is the one who can truly help and deliver from all distress, sorrow and fear and also as the place for support, comfort and proximity. I will hold back, Mr President, because I realize that I am talking about this for a very easy time, because it has my heart, but it is also intended to keep it a bit compact here. Maybe this is the deepest answer I can give, as I said to someone recently in a conversation: imagine that it is true, that it is not just some kind of hobby of its own.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Imagine that it is true that we have a soul for an eternity and that it is not just about getting through this time, but that we also want a life after that... If all that were true, I believe that is true, then you realize at once how important that is. If you do think it's only a little... Well, let's not put a negative qualification on it, but if you say you don't believe all that, then there may be a temptation to see it all in the same way as the first one the best leisure hobby.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u28	I find it very complicated to have a huge debate on this in this context. With all due respect for what Mr Van der Staaij says, I would just like to say the following. Of course, there are also people in the Netherlands who go to Ajax on Sunday afternoon with almost the same qualifications as the most important in their lives can be framed as Mr Van der Staaij does now. Constitutionally and in terms of intent, I understand that it is of a totally different order, but I think we are helping each other by seeing both these interests in the picture and also solving this together. That's actually kind of the search for me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u29	I understand. I respect that, and I appreciate that. That's how I see it. I understand that this also doesn't convince a lot of people and that they're shrugging their shoulders on it, but I'm trying to be honest about what that interest is. But that listens so closely, also a bit because they are the same people who do all kinds of things and because there are also vulnerable people who don't have money for a nice ticket for Carré to get together but who do find support and comfort in that church.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u30	I was a little surprised at the way in which Mr Van der Staaij actually states that anyone who criticizes those large meetings of 600 people in a church would see the church as a kind of charade and that their own hobbies would also be of less value than the church services that Mr Van der Staaij and his associates go to every week and which are of great help to them. Of course, there are countless other meetings where people with the same energy go and get the same inspiration and experience. Mr Van Dam mentioned the football stadium. You can also call carnival and you can call party meetings. There are plenty of places where people get inspired and feel experience. Then I am not entirely okay with Mr Van der Staaij saying: that is all spielerei, but those divine services are what it really is about, and that is why we are entitled to an exception. If we conduct the debate that way, you'll be doing a lot of people who aren't in church every week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u31	I am glad that Mr Hijink is expressing how this seems to him, because that gives me the opportunity to put that right. It's certainly not my intention to put other people away by saying that it doesn't matter. I understand very well that you can also derive joy from all kinds of other things. I've only tried to point out that I think this is of a different order, because this touches the deepest part of your being human. That is my sincere conviction. I do not serve other people with that, but that is how I stand in it and how I see it, without trying to wrong others.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u32	That may be so, but I am also concerned that there are very sincere concerns about public health, for example in the mass meetings that are still held in churches: 600 people together in a closed room, where there is also singing. The whole world knows that this is the ideal place for the virus to spread, even if one stays at a distance of 1.5 meters. If there is a lot of criticism from society at such meetings, I think that as a church community you should look at yourself as well. If you want to rely on an exception, you will have to be extra careful and if necessary reduce that group size on your own, if you do not want to get bogged down in this discussion and end up with much stricter agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u33	I have already stressed that there is certainly a responsibility of its own. In my turn, I'd like to challenge the image that something was just done there. It was precisely because it was so important that people had invested very much in all kinds of ventilation measures and so on. Scientific literature had gone over the table so that this could be done this way. Of course, it's okay to talk about doing it in a different way. I find proper consultation between churches and government appropriate after this situation. That's exactly what I said. If everyone is expected to be scaled down in the context of reducing contact moments, I think it is legitimate to ask churches what responsibility they can show in this. As far as I am concerned, that is a justified appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u34	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u35	Mr. Chairman. Also at funerals, the standards for group size in the underlying months are considered to be very compelling. If you can't even be at the funeral of brother, sister, grandpa or grandma, it's sad and very painful. I noticed that funerals are not excluded from the law for a maximum number of visitors. Would this not be something to be explicitly included in the ministerial arrangement? I am referring to the fact that in identifying places where group size restrictions apply, non-parish funeral services are not allowed. Mr. Chairman. In an interrupting debate we have already talked about the vaccination obligation. I would ask the Minister to confirm in this debate, in the light of the noise that has arisen on this point, that this bill cannot in any way provide a basis for forced vaccination and that therefore the provision on rules on hygiene measures and protective equipment, Article 58j, does not allow for this. Madam President. Last week, in the Corona debate, the possibility of a mouth cap was passed. The note following the report states that Article 58j offers an opportunity to do so, subject to necessity and proportionality. But that was a point where I thought: how does that work in this law? If you now see that experts differ in their views on the usefulness of non-medical mouth caps, to what extent can you enforce an obligation to protect your mouth on the basis of this article? Mr. Chairman. In the spring we saw how heavy the visitor restrictions were for healthcare institutions. For three months a visit to husband or wife, father or mother was not possible. And just in such a difficult time, there is a need for contact with relatives. We all know that image bells are beautiful, but that it pales with real visits. We have therefore co-signed the Van Brenn amendment which improves the right of visitors to homes and institutions. Mr. Chairman. I have indicated that the Corona Act must not only ensure that our rights and freedoms are better protected, but also that democratic control of the corona measures is strengthened. For us an important condition for supporting the law is that it is not the government but the parliament that has the final say, and that the safety net provision is also removed from the law. That was a licence to take measures which we do not know exactly what that could mean. These are points which are improved by means of amendments, for example Mr Buitenweg's amendment to item No. 30, building on an earlier amendment tabled by colleagues Buitenweg and Kiik. A procedure whereby the House of Representatives may decide whether or not to agree to ministerial arrangements is also a very fundamental improvement in the legislative proposal. The question is, however, whether there should be a single ministerial arrangement which includes all the rules at the same time, or whether there should be a number of parallel arrangements? We believe that this has advantages too, that you would not say 'no' to a whole package at once, when there might be parts or arrangements in which you are in favour. We also support the amendment on item No. 32 by Mr Van Dam and co-signators, on the need to strengthen the accountability of mayors and presidents of the security regions to the municipal councils. When does the cabinet expect local customization to be possible again? And do the mayors have the right tools for that? That is again: as much as possible back to normal, local relations, if the circumstances of the crisis allow it. Mr. Chairman. Then there's enforcement. We have repeatedly advocated that the corona measures should be as far as possible in the form of urgent advice rather than legal obligations, in line with the responsibility of everyone and society as a whole, so that they remain paramount. Washing hands, staying at home in case of complaints, wearing a mouth cap, it's all not legally mandatory, but still people keep to it pretty well. The distance standard is enforceable. The importance of keeping away is unmistakable, but at the same time it is the measure that turns social life on its head the most. What is normally called a loving gesture is punishable in corona time. I appreciate the fact that the letter of amendment has made a further clarification, that the provision is not as rigid as it used to be in the law and that the spontaneous kiss of a grandchild to a grandmother on the street is not equal to a criminal offence. In addition to a relativisation of this standard, it is therefore also important for the government to apply a very cautious penalty policy. In doing so, the SGP supports the VVD's amendment to substantially reduce the fine for corona infringements and to ensure that the corona fine is not at the expense of the vog. Mr. Chairman. In a motion adopted unanimously together with Mr Klaver, the Chamber called for consideration to be given to further reducing the role of criminal law in favour of urgent opinions and directives in relation to the one-and-a-half-meter measure. And I'll be honest with you, I've also been looking to see if I could sort this out a little better in this law, but I've also noticed that that's a very complicated puzzle. That is why I have not tabled an amendment on this point either, and I respect that it has been said: this is such a clear basic standard, we cannot differentiate in that now. But it does impose even more responsibility in enforcement, so it also explicitly examines the circumstances under which the fine is to be paid. And also the whole palette of first warning in situations and not too easy for citizens, we find this section an important issue. I would also like to ask about the motion with Mr Klaver: what is the situation with regard to the investigation and does the Minister intend, in better times, to 'deport' the possibility of a fine, so to speak? Would there be any longer-term prospects for this? The Corona Act must be in force as short as possible. The purpose of the law, the fight against and the fight against the virus, must be implemented as carefully as possible. In order to better anchor this in the law, three amendments have been tabled, precisely on the scope and duration, which we have also co-signed. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) 27 reduces the duration of the law to three months. I had the amendment in part No. 19, which I had myself tabled on this point, has just been withdrawn, so that it does not have to be part of the further examination. In addition, there is the Van der Graaf amendment to item No. 31 that strengthens the scope of the law. Every time the powers are used, the government must make it very clear that a less far-reaching system of restricting fundamental rights is not possible. This amendment also states that measures taken under ministerial rules or general administrative measures should be scaled down as soon as possible. Finally, we want an opinion from the Council of State every time before the government wants to extend the law to see if the measures taken are still proportionate. This also gives Parliament guidance in the assessment of the proposed rules. We would also like to see the Minister explaining, in the event of a possible extension, what the prospects for ending the measures look like. Together with other parties we have in part No. 26 tabled an amendment requiring the cabinet to do so. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. I have indicated why we support the idea that there should be a law as a successor to the emergency regulations as long as this crisis lasts. I have indicated that we believe that, with a number of amendments from the Chamber, the legislative proposal provides a solid basis for this. Of course, we also have to look again and again at how this is going to work in practice. Thorough evaluation is also part of legislation like this. I would like to add my voice to the comments made by Mr Van Dam on state emergency law. It is indeed a bit of a legal debate. At the beginning I almost heard the PVV say that it is going to be very legal, but I think that in addition to all the policy debates and contemplative debates we have had, it is important to say: all beautiful, all beautiful, but how are we going to settle things nicely? I hope that as many parties as possible, including perhaps with additional amendments, will say: it is properly arranged, it is unfortunate that it should be, but in the current circumstances this is the best possible approach. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u36	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u37	Mr. Chairman. Everyone in this house feels how far-reaching the corona measures are. And if you don't feel or believe there's a pandemic and we have a problem, you don't want rules, you don't want an emergency regulation and you don't want a law at all. I don't think I can convince those people here today of the need for that either. But if you are convinced that we need to do it together, and that is why we need to take action, no matter how difficult and complicated it may be, then you need to do it nicely. My group very much understood that we worked with an emergency regulation at the beginning. After all, there was a completely unique new crisis situation in which urgent action had to be taken. But we've also said from the beginning that you can't keep doing that. Because emergency regulations - that's what you're talking about already - are in an acute situation for a temporary period and not for a seven-month period, which we're dealing with right now, a period that might take a lot longer, because we don't know when the end of this pandemic is in sight and we don't know when we're gonna have a properly functioning vaccine. That makes good legislation obvious. Legislation in which you can agree on measures, measures with which you can disagree, measures for which you can be in favour, but at least properly secured with good democratic control, both in this house, so in the Lower House, as well as at local level. Mr. Chairman. The first version of the legislation that the cabinet preached to us was not good enough. There was rightly a lot of criticism about it. The second version of the bill had improvements, including the fact that you can no longer intervene behind the front door, but we still had wishes. That is partly why we have looked together with other parties at what we think this legislation should look like. That democratic control therefore needed to be better anchored, and that also means that we have signed and tabled a number of amendments together in order to amend that legislative proposal in a number of fundamental respects. With the amendments that are before us, which I also expect to receive a positive opinion from the cabinet, we want to improve the legislative proposal on these very points. It is about democratic control, both within us and at the local level, it is about shortening the bill from six to three months, it is about reducing the fine, ensuring that there is no more criminal record, and it is about enforcing the right to visit in all cases. So it's about some very fundamental things that both society and ourselves have felt that changes were needed there. Mr. Chairman. Those amendments and their adoption are also essential for my group to be able to vote in favour. But there is now a majority, and if the cabinet is positive, I think that we have a package, a legislative proposal that can also be approved, and that helps to properly assess all the measures that will be taken. That does not mean that the complexity is not ready, because this bill does not yet regulate, for example, the obligation or obligation of a mouth cap. This bill does not yet regulate what additional measures you want to take, because in fact it is still a framework. But the bill does, at a time when the cabinet wants to take a decision, regulate that at least we have to have that review here to see whether we want to ratify it or not. Mr. Chairman. The next debate in recent months, and especially in recent weeks, also occasionally gave me the feeling: what is the bigger problem, by worrying about the measures taken by the cabinet, or by almost having to worry about the measures that the cabinet is not taking? This also shows that a legislative proposal offers nothing at the time when you do not act, when you do not offer clarity and you do not have an agreement on the measures you would like to take together. That brings me to a few final remarks. A lot of technical questions have been asked. I agree with that for the sake of shortcoming, but a legislative proposal does not, of course, mean anything when we do not have the framework conditions in place; if there is no proper test policy; if there is no proper source and contract research; when crisis communication fails. Then you're nowhere. This merely provides a framework for the legal anchoring of what the cabinet wants. We must also avoid becoming a kind of proposal machine to correct what we do not like in the cabinet, or in which we find them operating too mop-up, too lax or too late. Because that would actually be a wrong role and a wrong mechanic of this bill. However, I see that the cabinet delivers opinions, proposes policy measures, comes up with regulations, and then we check whether or not we think that is sensible. Because if it's gonna work the other way around, this is gonna be a bill like we didn't mean to. Then we are constantly on to something that needs to be managed by the cabinet. That remains a constant concern. Then there is my final point. Why am I making that so explicit? As an example this morning alone, Minister De Jonge was a little late. That's okay, because he was at Amphia Hospital because of the speed tests. But then the question was asked: who will be allowed to use these rapid tests? Then it was first: the vital professions, then it was everyone who might have been in contact with everyone, or perhaps anyone who downloaded the CoronaMelder and had a notification. This again makes promises or predictions that may not be fulfilled. Hence my question: the cabinet is going to pass this bill, but let it also show the modesty to ensure that we are nowhere without targeted policies, without clear measures, without proper framework conditions. Then this bill is also an empty shell. I have forgotten one last question that I must ask; that is also a bit of an omission on our part. It concerns the Caribbean Netherlands. I had not thought about the fact that the BES islands were also directly affected by this bill. I know that a number of islands within the BES would like an exemption. At the same time, for example, the debate has not yet taken place at Bonaire. So I'd like to know from the Cabinet exactly what's going on. Is there also support on the islands for actually or not obtaining an exemption? What does that mean? And what does it mean if there is no exemption? My last comment concerns Mrs Van der Graaf, who will be able to speak on her birthday. I wish her a very happy birthday, despite the fact that we will be mostly in this house today. And I wish her every success and strength in her contribution. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u38	Thank you. And congratulations, Mrs. Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr Veldman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u39	"Temporary provisions relating to measures to combat the epidemic of covid-19 for the longer term." Mr President, this is the full title of the law that we are discussing today and tomorrow. This title contains both the uncomfortable and the necessary provisions of this law, contained in words such as "temporary provisions," "measures to combat the epidemic" and "longer term." A law that provides the legal basis for taking measures to combat the coronavirus. A law that unfortunately makes the necessary restriction of some of our freedoms legally possible. A law that, under normal circumstances, no one wants, but is needed now. In short, a law on which the necessary social unrest has arisen. Let me be very clear: I understand this unrest. I understand this unrest and the feeling that the Minister of Health, with one stroke of pens, is space. get the power to restrict our freedom, our way of life. I understand this unrest when I look at the first consultation version of the law that the cabinet had drafted. That version wasn't a good law. The legislative proposal now before the House of Representatives has been considerably improved. You could almost say that there is a whole new proposal. To mention some good adjustments: it can intervene behind the front door has been taken out of the law. And rightly so. That's how the house law stays secured. It is important that people do not have to fear that the government can just act within the freedom of their own home. In doing so, we respect the fundamental importance of house law as enshrined in, inter alia, Article 10 of the Constitution. There is a better and wider balance of interests in the establishment of ministerial arrangements. Read: It is not only the Minister of Health who decides what happens or does not. He should coordinate this with the Minister of Justice and Security and with the Minister of the Interior and in agreement with other relevant trade ministers, for example the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State in the field of public transport. The duration of the law is reduced by the Cabinet from one year to six months. Parliament is not informed afterwards, but involved beforehand. Unfortunately, these and several other changes made by the cabinet have not yet removed concerns about the law from many. People are concerned about the impact this law has on their daily lives. They wonder why the emergency regulations are not enough and what further freedoms can be restricted by this law. These are questions that we will be answering with each other today and tomorrow, but above all those that need to be answered clearly by the Minister in the direction of society, so that everyone knows where he or she is going. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he recognizes the social unrest and what has been done in recent weeks to take this road. How is it ensured that a proper, clear explanation of the usefulness, necessity, purpose and impact of the law is provided? How is the Minister going to explain this law to society and where can people go if they have questions? As I said, the bill submitted to the Chamber is much better than the consultation version, but we are not there yet. It can and must be done better. I would like to comment on a number of elements in the law that the VVD would like to see better regulation of. An important element in the law is democratic control. In essence, that is the reason for this law. We're working with emergency regulations now. As has been the case up to now, this has worked practically, but formally it has excluded both parliament and municipal councils. Article 7 of the Public Health Act allows the Minister of Health to give instructions and impose measures, and thus to intervene in our lives without formal parliamentary control. Mr. Chairman. All this is understandable and imaginable in a short-term crisis, if, for example, a factory explodes somewhere and there is an urgent need to intervene in the interests of public health. Restrictive measures are then usually characterised by their short-term nature. However, we have been on the road for seven months now, seven months with restrictive measures without a formal role of parliament. That is not only weird and undesirable, but immediately demonstrates the need for this law. But it can and must be done even better than is now laid down in the law. Involvement of the Chamber in a ministerial arrangement through a light front is nice, but the possibility of ratifying it or not is better. This is in line with the democratic rule of law. It is precisely in the interests of supporting measures that a strengthened position of the Chamber is desirable. Does the Minister share this amendment, designed in the amendment to item No. 30 with Mrs Buitenweg as the first petitioner? Mr. Chairman. This democratic control is not only necessary at national level. Accountability and control are also an important and cherished instrument at local level. The law strengthens the position of municipal councils, but with the amendment to item No. 32 that democratic control is further strengthened. The city council should be able to carry out this monitoring task properly, both in terms of the policy pursued and in terms of the exercise of the authority of the chairman of the security region. As we do not want the government to be able to go about its business uncontrolled, so local councils do not want to do so either. To this end, they must be given the tools to ensure this. Mr. Chairman. Of course, the VVD attaches great importance to maintaining measures, including the corona measures. Over the past few weeks, we have seen various illegal dance parties or parties being organised, where many people were present who did not comply with the measures, where no names were registered, but where no fines were finally paid. How is that possible, I ask the Minister. I do not think that the argument 'there is no beginning' can be explained. What do our enforcers need to be able to enforce the measures properly and pass a fine where rules are clearly violated? In short, how does maintaining measures in accordance with Article 58h and Article 58i work in practice? Mr. Chairman. The law and the measures in question make an exception for religious meetings on a number of points, such as the maximum number of visitors. It is clear that religious gatherings are a fundamental right. Fortunately, we saw in the first corona wave that churches, mosques and other religious institutions also took responsibility. Also in the second wave we ask for this responsibility of church communities. The inconvenience was great when we got acquainted with the busy divine service in Staphorst last weekend. The VVD hopes that ecclesiastical domes will again show that responsibility from the first wave, but we also ask the Minister how these agreements are well secured and what effort he wants to make in that regard. Mr. Chairman. Enforcement and fines must take place when the situation so requires, but of course the consequences of enforcement must also be proportionate. It's precisely that proportional that's something rather undesirable. The one-and-a-half meter measure is urgently needed, but of course very unnatural. That is why it does not feel right to impose very heavy fines here, including a note in the judicial file, the known criminal record. The amount of this fine must be reduced. We need to get the criminal record out. It should not be the case that normal human action under normal circumstances can lead to a person not being given an explanation of behavior. The VVD considers it very important that, in their later professional careers, people are prevented as little as possible by having a judicial note following the violation of measures that limit natural and human behaviour. In order to strengthen this announced change, we have therefore tabled an amendment. Can the Minister agree with the proposed amendment of the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u40	I refer to the last words and phrases that have been spoken about the fine and the judicial note. I would almost like to report the stealing of my text, because I used these words in May. I also tabled a motion to say: "Oh, it can't be that if you keep 20 centimeters too short a distance and you go to training as a boa, a cop or a daycare worker, the result is that you don't get a job." That €390 is so far. What's my surprise? I like the story, but Mr Veldman voted against that motion to remove the judicial note. The CDA did, by the way. Where does that insight come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u41	I believe that the motion tabled by Mr Azarkan at the time was very broad. In my view, he also indicated that the fines that had been paid at that time should also be abolished. I think that is why we voted against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u42	That's not true, because I indicated at the time that the fine could still be paid, as I said. That is a monetary amount; that can sometimes also be paid for parents, especially if you have a 18, 19-year-old child who can't afford it. I was talking about that court record. So I didn't yell about the fine. I told you that court record should go away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u43	I understand that we are now in agreement with each other, so I very much invite Mr Azarkan to join us in submitting or supporting the amendment we have tabled. Then we're on the same side of the line. I think that's a success.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u44	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u45	Thank you. Sometimes insights come a little later, but I think this is the right answer. Thank you, Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u46	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u47	Mr. Chairman. I was with the human, and to stay with the human: during the first wave of the coronavirus, the nursing homes were particularly hard hit, both physically and mentally. An overall visitor stop for residents was proclaimed for the whole country, with only a strict and limited exception for relatives and close relatives to say goodbye to loved ones who would soon die. Unfortunately, we have heard and read poignant stories of family and neighbors who had to say goodbye to a grandfather or a grandmother, a brother or a sister from behind. People who have not necessarily seen a demented mother or father for months, with all the sad consequences that come to mind. I think I speak for a lot of people when I say we don't want that anymore. It should not be the case, therefore, that too easily a generic measure should be introduced to lock up nursing homes. Every nursing home can and must be customised. The VVD wants to tighten the law even further on this point. We have therefore co-signed Mrs Van Brenn's amendment. Does the Minister share with me that local tailor-made work is possible, that healthcare providers themselves have the responsibility to ensure the safety of their residents and employees and that they have a legal obligation to do so? Does the Minister not think that local tailor-made work should be the starting point? Mr. Chairman. In previous Corona debates, the VVD has asked for a directive on the involvement of residents and visitors in these violent decisions about whether or not to allow visitors. This directive is now in place. The question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to actively bring this directive, which obliges drivers to talk to their visitors and residents, to the attention of those administrators of health care institutions, so that everyone knows about it and applies it. Mr. Chairman. There are, of course, professions where, for example, when exercising their profession, people cannot keep to the 1.5 metres. Carers, policemen, firefighters: these are the well-known professions. In the letter of amendment, exceptions to those 1.5 metres were added "or which provides first aid in a life or health threatening situation." May I read this addition in such a way that, for example, the people of the rescue brigade are also meant here? It's something that's sometimes looked at differently. Mr. Chairman. I began by saying that we had hoped that this law would not have been necessary, but that we would have accepted the need for it. As a result, I hope that this law will have to be in force as soon as possible. I therefore wholeheartedly endorse the temporary nature, but since we cannot predict how the spread and control of the virus will go on, we can see it again today: almost 5,000 infections will probably have to deal with it longer than we want with each other. Nevertheless, at a higher frequency than the cabinet proposes, it should be considered whether this law still needs to remain law. That is precisely why the VVD is also tabling the amendment to shorten the duration of this law from six to three months. It may be extended thereafter, but it will require an active action. For laws that make it possible to restrict our freedom must never be taken for granted or become self-evident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u48	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u49	Thank you, Madam President. The corona crisis is far from over and far-reaching measures are being taken that require much of our society. Measures that interfere with our freedom rights. For GroenLinks, it is necessary to maintain the democratic rule of law even in times of crisis. This means that the cabinet cannot rule the country through decrees, but that it is up to us as elected representatives to agree to the decisions of the cabinet or to reject them. We don't have enough control at the moment. That is why it is good that we are discussing this Corona Act today and, above all, that we are taking the opportunity to amend the Cabinet's bill on crucial points, so that we are in a position in this House to ensure that the necessary measures can be taken to keep our society healthy and at the same time set limits on what the executive can do. Mr. Chairman. In a democratic rule of law, some human rights are absolute, such as the right not to be tortured. But most human rights can be subject to conditions. We know that, for example, in the right to privacy. The same applies to other rights. Those restrictions in the exercise of human rights must always be proportionate, necessary and effective. The limits drawn must be based on a law that has been democratically established. In recent months we have heard many experts, such as Professor Voermans; let's call the man by name again, because he has told us a lot about what was wrong. But there were also other experts and institutes like the Council of State. We have heard from them that we can no longer continue to limit freedom rights through emergency regulations. They can't pass the test of criticism I just mentioned. So what do we do? Ideally, we are going back to the situation before this crisis, but I fear that is too early and that does not serve our health. The corona crisis is not yet over, and that is why it is necessary to ensure that the restrictions can pass the human rights test. That is what this debate is about. I am going to go into the substance of the law proposed by the cabinet, but first of all I have to say that I do not think that this is a law that should have been made primarily by the VWS Minister. It's about administrative relations. It concerns the powers conferred on mayors and on the presidents of the security regions. It's about democratic control. On such a law, the fingerprints of the Minister of Foreign Affairs should be much more explicit. It is written in roaring words on the website: "The Ministry of Foreign Affairs guarantees the core values of democracy. BZK stands for good and effective public administration and a government that citizens can rely on." When I look at VWS, I see that this ministry is primarily focused on care. Then why is the Minister of the United States of America the first to be responsible for this law? Why else isn't the Secretary of State at least co-host? Now, of course, a completely technocratic answer can come: because it is an addition to the Public Health Act. But that is not enough in my view when it comes to such fundamental intervention in relations, both in the administrative Netherlands and in the civil-government relationship. I see the VWS minister thinks this is funny, but I mean it. In fact, I think it is essential to talk about freedom rights. In any case, the Minister for Foreign Affairs should have been more closely involved. I honestly do not understand the choice either because of the crisis situation. The Minister of VWS is in his head only trying to overcome the crisis. That goes better one time than the other, but no doubt his focus is there. He wants to be able to do things, he wants to be able to act. He's in the ultimate executive mode, and that's what he's being paid for. That makes him, in my view, excuse, by definition less suitable to make a broad, well-considered and calm balance between different civil rights. Hence my question: has it been considered to make another minister and another ministry first responsible for this and, if so, why has it not been chosen? How does the cabinet look back on this choice? I am not going to remind you of the entire lead time with the first and second versions, because colleagues have already done so. I note that the version before us and what we are talking about has already improved considerably compared to the first, but that it is still insufficient because of the lack of democratic control, the excessive length of time, the excessive safety net clause and so on. Mr. Chairman. Why wasn't this just sent back to the cabinet to make another version of it? I've considered that, too. I believe that is what Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen and a number of other colleagues said. I have also seriously thought: perhaps we should ask for this under the motto 'three times is a charm'. However, I think it is also appropriate at this time of crisis, in which we also need to speed things up, but also, constitutionally, that we, as a Chamber, simply stand up for our own rights and that we, as representatives of the people, assume our responsibilities. Together with a number of colleagues from seven other parties, we have tabled amendments. I would really like to thank these colleagues for their cooperation. I thought it was special. I was asked recently: when did you have to put the knife on the table, so in the coalition versus the opposition? I said it wasn't like that at all. Yes, did that happen, Mr. Van Dam? No, it didn't, because we all just wanted the same thing from the point of view of our role as a representative of the people. So it wasn't split along those lines, as we normally know it. That was not the case at all. If the amendments are adopted, they will ensure that the House of Representatives is given control and that the power of the ministers is limited. And that's how it's supposed to be in a democratic rule of law. I noted in the note on the report that the cabinet is concerned about that control. In response to a question from the SP, the Minister writes: "Administration in the sense of determining decisions to be taken is not well compatible with governance in crisis time." That is a good and firm line, such as 'not bullshit but brush', but I would like to tell the Minister that one crisis is not the other. If there's an attack, or a big fire, or perhaps a very short violent epidemic, then we shouldn't all try to make the decisions. Then it is important to act as quickly as possible, so that it is only possible to provide extensive ex post accountability. But the corona crisis in which we are now is really of a different nature. It will hurt our country for much longer and it cannot be put out without support and without the cooperation of as many people in the Netherlands as possible. They must have confidence in the measures. The measures must have legitimacy. That is why it is often okay to have a week to think through measures and to prepare them well at the time. Showing leadership is not the same as the art of taking decisions through it. Last week, the Chairman of the Security Council, Mr Bruls, also complained that people were often attacked by measures. Municipalities, entrepreneurs, daycare centres, schools, everyone must be able to understand what is expected of him or her and organise it. In the amendment, which has been discussed a great deal, on the subject of item No. 30 We propose that the ministerial regulation should not enter into force until a week after it has been sent to the House of Representatives. This Chamber may then decide whether to support the measure or not to vote on it. When the need is real, a ministerial arrangement can enter into force immediately and the Chamber can then stop a decision. How does the Minister assess this amendment in part No. 30? Does he think that this is or is not compatible with governance in crisis time? I am also curious when the Minister thinks he should go back on that emergency braking procedure. This has already been mentioned by Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. When will there be an emergency? Take the measures announced by the cabinet last week. Would these have been measures which, with the amended Corona Act, had only entered into force after a week, so in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 58c, or were they, in his view, so urgent that they should have entered directly into force, with which Parliament could only have expressed its opinion afterwards? I think it is also a bit in the nature of the Minister to move quickly forward. How can he reassure me that the second paragraph of Article 58c, as we propose, is the right way forward? Mr. Chairman. If the amendments before us are adopted, I think that the law regulates the powers in an acceptable way, and that is important. But of course there are elements in it that are uncomfortable. Mr Van der Staaij has already said it, as has others. For example, it is a question of regulating and recording the safe distance in social traffic. That safe distance is crucial to ensure as few infections as possible together. So I support them, too, but I think everyone here also thinks they're weird. This standard regulates not only the distance between people at work, in churches or at meetings, but also between me and my adult daughter when we walk the street. It's amazing how our lives have changed since the beginning of this year. It's also incredibly sad that we're dealing with that right now. I imagine this makes a lot of people feel impotent too. Mr. Chairman. The law also makes it possible to limit the size of groups. That brings me to the discussion we had yesterday in Question Time and also just now. Following the mass gatherings in Staphorst, voluntary agreements have been made with communities on how many people are allowed to sit in the church at a time. Those are voluntary agreements. At the same time, cultural institutions, as well as associations, are faced with imposed measures. Like I said, I'm from a fraternity myself, Nivon. It has always been very important to me, also for my development. In order to explain the difference, the Prime Minister has always raised the Constitution with great importance in recent days. And indeed, Article 6 regulates freedom of religion and belief. But two articles further up stands the freedom of association. The Minister for Justice and Security said yesterday that there is no hierarchy of importance between these rights. No, but with this corona law, these associations are not treated in the same way as church societies. Voluntary agreements have been made with one and obligations imposed on the other. What justifies, also legally, this unequal treatment? Moreover, Article 6.1 is not absolutely worded as follows: "Everyone has the right to freely profess his or her religion or belief, either individually or in communion with others, subject to everyone's responsibility under the law." That's what it says. Is it possible, therefore, to ask the Minister, by law, to impose restrictions on the formation of groups in churches in the same or similar way as they can be imposed on associations, for example? That is something other than the question of whether enforcement behind the front door is possible. I understand that this cannot be done, but I would also like to separate myself from the question of whether something can simply be said about the size of groups. Can anything be said about this and, if so, is the cabinet prepared to do so under the guise of 'equal monks, equal hoods'? I think it is important, as the Animal Party has also said, for the support of the measures to distribute the room for manoeuvre fairly. That is not happening at the moment. For example, people may fly to all kinds of corona contamination sites before their holidays, but the number of people who may be present at funerals is limited. I think these inimitable choices lead to irritation and incomprehension for a lot of people. However, I am also saying in the direction of the Animal Party that if our amendments, which we have made with so many colleagues, are adopted, we will have more say in such decisions. Who knows is that something that contributes to decision-making. Madam President. I'd like to close with that, too. It's not an easy time and it certainly wasn't an easy legal journey. I am very pleased that we have found each other in this house with many colleagues in order to improve the cabinet's proposal by means of amendments. I am also very pleased to hear that other parties are now also seeking amendments to see how the legislative proposal can be further improved, because of course what is now under discussion has not just been carved into marble. I think it's important to stick together as much as possible. Continuing to take corona measures through emergency regulations is not sustainable. It is therefore important to replace it with rules that uphold the democratic rule of law. I believe that a good law is of great importance and is also necessary to combat the growing polarisation and to strengthen our society together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u50	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Our country was turned upside down when the draft laws of fortune suddenly lay on the streets shortly before the summer. The law gave Minister Hugo the Young far-reaching powers without giving the Chamber anything to say about it: a Hugocracy, which nobody in this country was waiting for at all. It also seemed like a good idea for the cabinet to maintain rules behind the front door, in the living room: the 1.5 meters for example. This attitude of the cabinet and the undemocratic first version of this law have caused a great deal of damage in society, but also in parliament. The E.R. Act has fueled the mistrust. Distrusting people who fear that the government is using a crisis to restrict fundamental rights. Conjecture about a government that sees parliament as a difficult obstacle, rather than the place where the decisions are taken: the representation of the population. My colleague Ronald van Raak warned in a consultation at the beginning of June that it was not moving in the right direction with this law. He pointed out the great constitutional consequences if the government got its way and said that you couldn't take such a law through the Chamber in a week, as the proposal was in those months. The criticism of the emergency law was also perfectly logical: we are in the midst of the biggest crisis in decades and we have a cabinet that too often makes a mess of the fight against the virus. We saw a Prime Minister who was already shaking hands explaining that we shouldn't shake hands anymore. We saw a Minister of Justice who didn't care at all about the rules he does impose on ordinary people. We saw Minister Hugo de Jonge who wanted to make an app within a weekend, which then came up with a lot of stuff. Let me just say and make it clear: if the cabinet itself is not decisive and unambiguous in the measures taken, it will lose confidence and support in society. This is particularly true if the basis is not in order, for example the test policy and the source and contact research. If, on top of that, a law is announced that puts Parliament out of play, then that puts a lot of bad blood. Does the Minister understand that? The government is asking a great deal, especially with the law that is now before us. But then you have to deliver as a government yourself. The question is whether this is enough. The SP has already thrown this law, which was made by the minister, into the trash for the summer. A law that gives so many powers to the minister, without parliamentary control and therefore without the participation of the parliament, cannot be introduced in our view. How dare the Minister submit a law to the Chamber, in which he is actually putting Parliament out of play? The cabinet has long spoken about strengthening parliamentary involvement. In fact, it is an important objective of the law that we are discussing. This makes it as if it is a kind of gesture to the House of Representatives to also be able to talk a bit about the corona measures. And that is, of course, the greatest possible nonsense. In a parliamentary democracy, the parliament is not involved in the policy, but has the final say on the policy pursued. The Minister pretends to give the Chamber something, namely participation, but it is not at all up to the Minister to give it. The primacy is already with the elected representatives of the people, and that is where it should be. You can't give us something that's already ours, I'd like to tell the minister. Mr. Chairman. It is right that the Chamber should not be sidelined by the Minister. Since this summer, proposals have been made to make a bad emergency law a slightly less bad law with a little less urgency. My colleague Ronald van Raak came up with proposals. He proposed that the safety net clause be deleted, the article which allows the Minister to push forward far-reaching measures without the assent of the Chamber. The SP also proposed to strengthen local democracy by increasing the control of municipal councils. Both proposals are reflected in the amendments tabled by Members of other parties last week. The duration of the law is shortened to three months. The Lower House is given the right of assent for the arrangements proposed by the Minister and the local control of municipal councils is strengthened. The carte blanche that the minister wanted is not going anywhere with it. With these proposals there is also a big line through the original purpose of the cabinet. It really is a hell of a beating for a minister who wanted to give himself a great deal of power with great strides and want to bypass Parliament. I would like to ask the Minister why he has now come up with the proposals himself, as they are now. How does he feel that it has been up to Parliament to make this dragon of a law a little better? Mr. Chairman. The SP is absolutely uncomfortable that we first had a bad authorisation law and now, if all the different changes are made, with a half-baked authorisation law. Why didn't the minister take the most clean route right away? Wouldn't it have been much better if the corona measures had been sent to the Chamber in temporary laws much earlier, so that we could have talked about this clearly and prematurely? It is not a law in which the minister receives all kinds of letters of release, but a law that simply establishes a legal basis for sometimes far-reaching measures. One can think of a distance determination or the limitation of group sizes. Even where fundamental rights are restricted, the government could have long been able to send legislation to the Chamber to provide the right basis for the measures taken. Why didn't that happen? Why not opt for a rapid legislative process aimed at specific measures, but opt for this authorisation law? Mr. Chairman. The SP still has the necessary questions about the law as it now stands. I shall begin with the division of roles between parliament and government. It is not right, as I have already said, that the cabinet is putting forward a proposal in which Parliament is excluded. The amendment tabled by Mrs Buitenweg and others proposes that all measures which the Minister intends to take should first be submitted to the House of Representatives for approval. That's important. The SP will, of course, also support this. But if we take state law seriously, then it is not enough for the House of Representatives alone to agree to far-reaching measures, even measures that restrict fundamental rights. If the power lies with the parliament, it should apply to the entire parliament, including the Upper House. Therefore, the SP proposes an adjustment to ensure the position of the Upper House in Mrs Buitenweg's amendment. If the government is committed to broad support, then this should apply to both Chambers. This also applies to the extension of the law after three months, at least if the amendment I believe to be adopted by Mr Groothuizen is adopted. Why didn't the cabinet choose to request formal permission from both chambers before the law can be renewed? We will probably extend this law a few more times. In our view, it is not very strange that you should ask both Chambers for explicit permission. Certainly also because the Upper House has little say in the current proposal on the measures such as these, we do not find it unreasonable to allow the Upper House at such a time to have a good debate and to consider whether we should proceed with this law. Mr. Chairman. In the government's proposal, mayors are given the power to make exceptions regarding the continuation of meetings and events. This competence remains with the chairman of the security region. My question to the Minister is: how is it prevented that the accumulation of exceptions will undermine or cross-reference the national fight against the virus? We can already see at the moment that this leads to the necessary unrest. Churches use the exception given to them by the Cabinet. This leads to indignation. Because how seriously do you take measures against the virus when you meet 600 people at the same time in a church to sing? If we have learned anything in recent months, it is that these are precisely the conditions in which the virus could potentially spread. But the other side is also true, of course. How can you explain that a theatre can open up to receiving large groups? For example, shouldn't you be in a church with 100 people? At the same time, if 250 people are welcome and can be received in one theatre, why doesn't the other theatre get an exemption where it might? The granting of an exemption is sometimes very logical and necessary, but can also lead to division and arbitrariness. I'll ask the Minister how he handles that. How do we prevent it from becoming a complete mess when these kinds of exemptions are given everywhere? Can the Minister also promise that economic arguments are not going to gain from the efforts to combat the virus? Does the Minister recognise that keeping the virus under control is also the best way to restore economic recovery as quickly as possible and that not taking short-term measures would therefore appear to be beneficial to the economy, but would be much more harmful in the long term? Does the Minister also see the risk that the corona measures in force, especially if they lead to very different implementations, will be used to interpret them so creatively that we will see in all kinds of places in the Netherlands that people no longer actually comply with the agreements? Mr. Chairman. It is now clear that the 1.5 metres will not apply to the provision of first aid. This is in response to questions that other parties but also the SP have asked. That is of course good and logical, but this also makes it clear that there is a large grey area at the point of that 1.5 meter. The SP sees the importance of the 1.5 meter distance, however unnatural that may be for us as a human and as a social animal. But does the cabinet also see that strict compliance with the one-and-a-half meter rule is extremely difficult and complicated in our society? How does this relate, for example, to fines for some older children who are too close to an uncle or an aunt or for single people who are allowed to date but who are not allowed to approach anyone in the outdoors to less than 1.5 metres? How is the 1.5 meter dealt with in places where it simply doesn't work, for example in a shopping street? Can the Minister explain what has been learned in the last few months in terms of enforcement? To what extent is the new, added alcohol ban of added value even if there is a group ban and a distance standard? We understand very well that the cabinet wants to combat illegal parties, but this can also be done on the basis of the group ban and the distance standard, you might say. We are concerned that, if these rules are introduced, a couple who opens a beer or a wine in the park could immediately be punishable. I would like to ask the Minister how we should take this proposal. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the nursing homes. We have seen last week that in Drenthe, in a nursing home, in the last few weeks half of them are half of them! All residents died of coronavirus. That's a big deal for the people who work there, for the family members and for the next of kin. The Minister strongly states that it is the responsibility of the administration of a care institution to ensure that people can work safely and that residents can stay safely in their institution. However, my question is whether it is sufficient to place responsibility in the management of a healthcare provider or whether more safeguards are needed to ensure that the inspection, but also, for example, the inter-branch organisations, are given a greater role in making agreements on how to ensure that our nursing homes remain a safe place to work but also to live. Mr. Chairman. Finally. It seems sensible to the SP that the cabinet should consult itself on how we can prevent a chaotic process, as we have seen around this emergency law, in the future. The fact that we are now standing here to discuss a piecemeal authorisation law shows that the Public Health Act does not work well enough in pandemics of this magnitude. That is why today the SP is also proposing to look at how we are going to improve this law, not the one we are discussing today, but the Public Health Act, in order to be better able to protect human fundamental rights in the event of a subsequent pandemic, while at the same time ensuring a better distribution of powers and an effective fight against epidemics. I would like to ask the Minister if he is prepared to support this proposal and look into it. I also hope that the Minister will realise that the way in which this government deals with the corona crisis too often leads to ambiguity, too often leads to delay and too often leads to hassle and that this must be really different if you want to maintain the support in society for the fight against corona. The confusion and resistance that this minister has called on the public, but also in this Chamber, with this law, are very damaging and unnecessary. These could have been avoided if this minister had come up with a proper law in the summer. In our view, that is absolutely a missed opportunity. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u52	A brief question from Mr Groothuizen and then from Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u53	I appreciate that Mr Hijink actually says that he has a number of fundamental points of criticism which we also had, but that he also sees that there are improvements and that Parliament, as it were, has taken the trouble to make some improvements. That's what he's doing. I think this is a constructive attitude, which I have missed with a number of other critical groups. I appreciate that. If I understand you correctly, you are actually saying that we think that you should go into some sort of legislative process per measure. My question to Mr Hijink is then whether it will not simply take too long. I understand from a kind of state-law point of view that this may be the most royal route, but do you also see that we are going on for weeks with each measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u54	I think it's the other way around. On the contrary, we see that it has not worked either by doing it in such a messy and, in principle, very chaotic way with a bad law. We would have liked it much better, and I can understand why it is no longer possible, because we would have gone beyond that point if the cabinet had come up with much more limited laws in the beginning, in May or June, which we could have discussed here openly, without all kinds of permissions for the minister. We would have had a good basis for the measures that are now being taken much earlier. Then we wouldn't have seen all that fuss and undermining the basis of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u55	I understand that, but then the next question is still ahead. If you didn't support this law, the emergency regulations would be your legal framework. I believe that Mr Hijink agrees with me that this is not desirable either. Is Mr Hijink now saying that the law is such an improvement and that the alternative is so bad that he can finally support the law, or is he not ready to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u56	I'm not ready for that. Mr Groothuizen saw that very well. We're going to discuss the law today and tomorrow. The law as it stands today, as it has been filed, is worthless to us. I've said that many times. But we are also looking at the proposals put forward by the various parties. My colleague, Mr Van Raak, was, I believe, the first to come up with amendments to remove, for example, the safety net clause and, for example, to strengthen local democracy. So we're always looking at how to make laws better. The law that's there now is bad. He is getting better with the proposals that lie ahead, but I also think it is important to hear the persuasive arguments of this minister and how he is going to restore acceptance. Because we cannot ignore the fact that, even if it may be legally correct and this law improves, you have to look at the basis of support, at how a law is received in society. I want to be able to weigh that up at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u57	I think that's too easy. We now have a reasonable picture of what's lying there. The SP has an opinion on the bill. There are a number of amendments. Mr. Hijink will also come up with an amendment himself. Then you can say: are we or are we not going to support the law, yes or no? I ask this because I have previously asked another spokesperson of the SP, Mr Van Raak, who was working on the amendments. Then he said: in the end we do not support the law; we do the amendments but not the law. So I think it's relevant information to know where the SP is at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u58	I find it odd that a CDA representative expects me to give all my judgement on the law before the Minister has said a word. That's a weird thing to do, isn't it? Then we might as well vote right here. Then we will no longer have to have the debate. I have just explained to Mr Grothuizen what our objections are. I have indeed tabled amendments, and one more is coming, for example when it comes to strengthening the role of the First Chamber. We do not agree with the fact that this law can be extended without the support of both chambers, that it can only be decided in this Chamber. We find that strange, and we would prefer to see it differently. When I hear the Minister tomorrow, I want to be able to weigh my arguments. I gave them exactly. The law as it is, it's bad. He is getting better with the proposals that are being made, but that package is not yet the ideal picture as we would have liked to see it. Yes, we really need the rest of the debate for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u59	Yes, Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u60	One more question, then. The amendment you have just mentioned, the second, has now been put on my desk. Should I see it so that if there is no support for it, the SP cannot support the law? Or are you also waiting for the opinion of the cabinet on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u61	I'm not gonna say now: like this, then that. I am concerned that we want to be able to weigh it as a total package. To stress this once again: we are indeed concerned about how this emergency law has been received in society in recent months. It's okay to look at it. If the support base is so undermined by the proposals made by the cabinet itself, by the way in which the crisis has been dealt with at other times, then you can take that into account in your decision-making on this law. In fact, I believe that Mrs Buitenweg or anyone else who has said that a different law can be made. So it's not like if this law is off the table, suddenly everything explodes. No, then the Minister simply has an assignment to make a better law very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u62	Thank you. Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u63	The discussion between Mr Van Dam and Mr Hijink seemed a bit crooked, but I do not think that is the purpose of the debate we are having with each other. I think we've all struggled in our heads with the question of how we can make a law that's just not quite what it should be, something that's acceptable. Because it's also a choice: are you going to continue with emergency regulations, so to speak, or are you going to opt for a proper bill? I think that with a number of serious amendments we have really tried to come up with a good legislative proposal. I hope, however, that we will also be able to explore with the SP in a search for ways to strengthen this bill. That is my open question, because the more support there is and the wider we can do it, the more beautiful it is. I also feel the struggle with the SP to eventually get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u64	I think I have just said that my colleague, Mr Van Raak, was the first to submit amendments to this law. In any case, if we wanted nothing to do with this law, we would not have had to deal with any amendments. In fact, some of the proposals we made at the time have now also been taken up by other parties. I'm fine with that. I appreciate the commitment of others to make this law better. It's not that hard, 'cause he's super bad. But the point remains that, in our view, some kind of monstrosity is being laid down in the House of Representatives. Well, I guess I'll just say it like that. It is very nice that we then pick that up and try to clay some of it, but I think this is a completely wrong approach in the basics. For the ultimate responsibility, the power, should already lie with the elected parliament. So we cannot negotiate them a little with a minister. It's already here. We don't have to ask for that. We don't have to beg for that. We do. We never gave it away either, so we can't get it from the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u65	Yeah, but then I say back: don't do it yourself. We have taken our power by saying that we want to amend the legislative proposal on a number of fundamental points. That is why we have put our heads together together with a number of parties, not because this is the most fun thing to do, but because we think it is important and because we feel it is necessary. I feel that same wish with the SP. That is why I will support Van Raak's amendment on the safety net clause, but I am still looking for it. Is there any point in us having this conversation with each other later? Then what are we going to find each other for, or is it the goal of not wanting at all? That's just the search.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u66	Isn't that the conversation we're having here today and tomorrow? We have the debate now. We're discussing the law now. I have said what I think of the various amendments and I have said what I think of the law. But I also think it is important for the Minister to come up with a convincing story. If you look at this law, you can see that the minister has had absolutely no convincing story in the past few months. I really want to have heard that before I can weigh up the rest of the arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u67	Yes. That's how it works, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u68	That's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u69	It is right that Mr Hijink says that he wants to wait and see what the Minister says first. I also understand all sorts of grumpy about this, but at the same time I would like to say: let us as a parliament continue to work together and fulfil our role in seeing what we are going to do with the amendments. After all, we are the ones who decide what legislation looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u70	But you made that clear. Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u71	Mr President, with all due respect. I haven't asked a question yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u72	No, but that's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u73	I just think it is extremely important to explore this with each other, otherwise it will be a hopeless journey. We've really been doing it together for a couple of months. I just want to be honest about what we can find each other on. I would ask Mr Hijink not only to look at the Minister, but also to relate to us and to see where we can come together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u74	You made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u75	Yes, Mr President, and just to stress this once again: we always look at the laws on content, then we make proposals ourselves, and at the end of the debate, at the end of the legal process, we decide what we think. I'm just not that big of a hug that we all have to save the minister here. That's really a bridge too far for me. I think it is a good thing that everyone makes proposals on the content. We are doing the same ourselves, and at the end of the debate we will see what we think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u76	That's right. Thank you. No, Mrs. Chicken, this has changed enough. Thank you, Mr. Hijink. Then I will go to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u77	Thank you, Madam President, and thank you for the warm congratulations I have just received. I can only say that it is a very great privilege to speak on your birthday about protecting fundamental rights and strengthening democracy. You can't have it any more fundamentally, so thank you very much for that. Mr. Chairman. It's only been a little over six months since the corona virus hit our society so hard. I think back to the overcrowded ic's and the care workers who were working day and night and went to the extreme to take care of the people who were sick. And in this crisis, the cabinet took unprecedentedly far-reaching measures that affect all of us in our daily lives. We couldn't just go to school anymore, not just to church anymore, no more visiting father or mother in the nursing home. We were asked to stay home as much as possible, couldn't go to work anymore and grandpas and grandmothers couldn't hug their grandchildren anymore. And even though I know that in the book of Ecclesiastes there is a time to embrace and a time to keep a distance, I still find it very difficult to see how in a short time our lives and our societies have changed so much. After a summer in which more space was created, we are in a new phase, where figures are getting worrying. And even now people are getting sick, people are dying, and there are a lot of people who have to recover from this violent disease for a long time. It is this context in which measures are being taken, which go far, and which also affect our fundamental rights. Almost six months ago, the Chamber, the Parliament, unanimously asked the Council of State for an opinion on the fundamental aspects of the measures taken in the context of the crisis and on how the people's representatives could exercise better democratic control. The Council of State was clear, and others were clear: emergency regulations were effective at the beginning of a crisis, but because of limited democratic control, they are not suitable for long-term measures affecting our fundamental rights and freedoms, such as freedom of religion, such as freedom to demonstrate, to meet and even the freedom to meet at home; and a law was needed to protect our fundamental rights and strengthen democratic legitimacy. It is important to protect health and, let us not forget, it is also a responsibility of the government and a task under our Constitution. But limiting these other fundamental rights and freedoms can never go beyond what is strictly necessary. And we need to be able to judge that as a Lower House. Mr. Chairman. The law before us today has come a long way. The consultation of the law circulating on the Internet offered too many opportunities for the government to intervene, even beyond the front door, too little room for democratic decision-making and too little protection of our fundamental rights. And there was a great deal of criticism of that law, of the Ombudsman, of the Council for Justice, of municipalities, of the police, of the mayors, and of us. That law wasn't a good law and the cabinet had to go back to the drawing board. I would like to ask the cabinet: why didn't the cabinet choose to publish that consultation version on the internet consultation website? The law we are discussing today has been substantially amended on a number of points. Interventions behind the front door have been made completely impossible. The duration of the law has been reduced to six months. The cabinet can no longer decide unilaterally what exactly a safe distance is. And the measures must be submitted in advance to the Lower House, and also within the Cabinet more ministers must be involved in the drafting of such a ministerial arrangement in the taking of measures. The Christian Union was positive about the way in which the Cabinet has sought in this law how the freedom of religion would be adequately protected in this law, while at the heart of the matter is that no maximum number of visitors can be made to a divine service or other religious gathering, that there is a duty of care for the administration of those organizations, and that there can be room for churches and other religious and philosophical organisations to implement their gatherings at this time, and to take precautions and measures to prevent the spread of the virus. But with freedom comes responsibility and so we do not want to seek the limits of what is allowed but we have to decide in wisdom what is justified. I notice that churches act with that intention in this crisis. I think that is why the Minister of Justice's decision last Monday fell so harshly on the roof of many religious institutions and churches. I know that the Minister is going to speak to the churches again on Friday, and I hope that this discussion will also lead to more room being given at this time to churches that are of good will and take careful measures to ensure that services with adjustments and limited meeting can continue. However, the Christian Union considers it necessary that this law should be strengthened further before it can count on our support. I would like to mention a number of points. The measures must not only be submitted to the Lower House. Parliament must also be placed in a position to discuss in advance measures which the Cabinet intends to take to combat the virus, but also to be able to prevent or confirm if the Court agrees with those measures. This is part of a democratic rule of law and is also important to create support for the measures. The amendment tabled by Mrs Buitenweg deals with this. We have therefore co-signed this amendment wholeheartedly. The law must not last longer than is strictly necessary. Six months is a long time. The Christian Union wants the law to apply for a maximum of three months and then to reconsider whether that law should be renewed, with prior to that a test by the Council of State. The amendments tabled by Mr Groothuizen and Mr van der Staaij look at this. It will also have to be clear that it is always necessary to consider whether the measures are proportionate. This calls for an explicit balance between what is really necessary to protect public health and its impact on our freedoms and our society. The measures should be scaled down immediately if they are no longer needed to combat the corona virus. I have tabled an amendment on this point myself. The Christian Union also wants to ensure that there is always room for individual consideration when allowing visits in nursing homes and care institutions and that the quality of life of nursing home residents is central to making these considerations. We must not repeat a national ban on visits. The Van Brenn amendment regulates this. We attach ourselves to this because we all remember how painful those situations were where lovers could not meet and even in the final phase of life could not say goodbye to each other. And that was hard. Not that again. Fines for non-compliance are still very high in the legislative proposal. That is why we have also signed Mr Veldman's amendment to reduce the fines and to ensure that they do not affect your vog anymore, i.e. no criminal record, as it is popularly called. The system of emergency regulations had the disadvantage that not only the Lower House no longer had a controlling role in the adoption of measures but also the municipal councils had insufficient opportunities to control their lectures, because the decisions were taken at the level of the security region. That is why the Van Dam amendment is so important, because it strengthens local democracy and restores municipal control by municipal councils. In all these areas, amendments have been tabled to improve the law. A lot of people have emailed me with their concerns about the protection of their fundamental rights and freedoms, and with the question of whether Parliament will have enough to say if action is to be taken again. I believe that with these measures we are taking a step forward and that it is also very important and essential that they are supported to ensure that Parliament is put in a position. With the treatment of the law today, we also show as a Chamber that we are fulfilling our supervisory and legislative tasks. With these amendments, then, we are making the law an unmanageable monstrum, as some people fear, I ask with a wink. No, we are weighing up what measures may be taken where that weighting should take place, and that is here, in Parliament. Mr. Chairman. My group still has a number of questions for the cabinet. Many people wonder when the measures will come to an end and when this law will come to an end. They are afraid that it can be extended to a length of days as long as there is no vaccine. What is the government's reaction to this and when does the situation arise that we as a society have to relate to this virus and be able to return without a temporary law? What is leading the cabinet when it comes to the decision-making of this law? How does this law and the ministerial arrangements resulting from it relate to the coronadashboard? I'd like an explanation from the cabinet on that. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to complying with the one-and-a-half-meter standard, wherever we may find it difficult as a Christian Union, we all recognise this kind of situation. A son who wants to visit his old mother and support her, the young couple who has been in a relationship for some time but doesn't live together, the expatriating daughter of Mrs Buitenweg who comes home on weekends, the children who live part of the week with one parent and part of the week with the other parent. They are all situations that we know up close, and all of them are strictly in violation of that one and a half meter standard as proposed today. What message does the government have for these people and how does the government intend to deal with these kinds of situations in everyday life when implementing this law? In the written answers to our questions, the cabinet states that it does not want to formally exclude enforcement, but how? How are we supposed to handle this? Because these are the situations we all recognize in our daily lives. Should we no longer focus enforcement on situations that involve much more risk of spreading than on a few or a few who meet each other more often?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u78	Before you continue, Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u79	Since you have already interrupted me during my speech on your own amendment, I would like to ask a question about that. This is the amendment before us. I am curious, because in the contribution of the Party for Animals we specifically addressed the prevention of future situations in which we once again have to deal with limiting our civil liberties. If we are both in favour of preventing us from getting into such a situation again, I am curious to see how you are looking at resolving that situation, as your amendment is basically dealing with the here and now. Our plea is correct: look also at the future and try to prevent these civil rights from being violated again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u80	I think that, strictly speaking, you are right that the amendment as we have drafted is about the measures that the cabinet is going to take. So, yes, I think that in that sense it also responds to the concern that you have, or that Mrs Van Esch has through you, Madam President-in-Office, because it is about measures that the cabinet is going to take. At the moment when the cabinet intends to take a measure, it will always have to make that assessment and also very explicit: what is really needed to protect public health, compared to the impact it has on the restriction of human freedoms? This affects people's freedoms and fundamental rights. So I think that actually fits in with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u81	I am particularly curious how the Christian Union looks at its prevention. This is also just about preventing the fact that if we could encounter new viruses, we could end up again in situations where we would have to make the same choices again. We as the Party of Animals say: now also make sure that at this moment, by the law that is now before you, you do not come back into that kind of situation again. Of course, we have tabled our amendments and our proposals for this. I am curious about the Christian Union's vision of preventing these situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u82	I think that we have everything we need to do to prevent the virus from flared up further than it is now. That is the whole idea of the cabinet of taking these measures to prevent the spread of the virus. I also think it is very good to think about how we can prevent a new virus from coming our way in the future. I think this is something we should always be looking at. If you ask me to deal specifically with your own proposals, I have to say that I have not yet been able to take them into account enough to make a weighted assessment of them now. But I'll look at that with a sharp eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u83	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u84	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll ask about the situation in the nursing homes. We know that just a few days ago a hand-out of ActiZ, Verenso, Alzheimer's Netherlands and other organizations for visiting and social contact in nursing homes appeared. I wonder how this hand-out relates to what is now included in the legislative proposal, also in relation to Mrs Van Brenn's amendment. I also wonder: who can be designated as a caregiver? Sometimes people have multiple carers. Do they all have access to their loved ones they care about? I would like to clarify this point. We get a lot of questions about that. Many people are concerned that the advent of a vaccine will be accompanied by a vaccination obligation. The legislative proposal makes it very clear that there is no provision regulating this. The explanatory memorandum also shows that there will be no vaccination obligation. I think it is good and important for the cabinet to clarify this. I would particularly like to draw attention to the Caribbean Netherlands. Mrs. Kuik just pointed it out. This law also applies to them. I ask the cabinet: how did the cabinet talk to the islands within our Kingdom about the application of this law? Does it now offer sufficient flexibility, in the eyes of the cabinet, to be able to act quickly if measures are to be taken, even if the amendments tabled by the Chamber are adopted? From the islands we get questions about this. With this crisis, too, it becomes clear that the islands in our Kingdom are being hit quite hard. Evasive opportunities are scarce for them due to their special island setting. The often shaky economy also suffers unprecedented blows due to the lack of tourism. I would very much like a response from the cabinet in its term tomorrow. The possibility remains that education activities in educational institutions may not continue at all, but I read that this measure will always be an ultimatum remedium. Can we also work with some sort of escalation ladder, first taking action at local or regional level? I'd like a response from the cabinet. If one thing has become clear, then it is that we do not have our crisis legislation for an epidemic like this, which lasts much longer and is national, in order at the moment. So far it has worked with the emergency regulations, but it was sometimes searching. I appreciate the mayors, the presidents of the security regions, who have tried as much as possible to create a legal unit, so that a situation in Overijssel would not be judged very differently than a similar situation in North Holland. It is convenient that there is currently an evaluation of the Safety Regions Act, but the Public Health Act also has its limitations when it comes to combating a national epidemic. The question arises as to whether we should prepare our legislation for a similar crisis when it comes to us. I agree with the questions raised by Mr Van Dam. So I would also like a reaction from the cabinet. Then one final question and then I come to a conclusion. There are a lot of concerns about this law. Normally, I think that the public gallery would be packed here if we were to talk about a law like this, about which there is so much unrest among the population and about which we have had so many e-mails, phone calls and apps from people. Because of the circumstances of corona, this cannot be done now, but we know that there are a lot of people here in front of the building, on the Square, right now who are worried and expressing their discontent about this. They're worried about exactly what this law does to them. I heard it today, too. There are many falsehoods about this law, about what this law does regulate and what this law does not regulate. Some of these falsehoods have even been addressed in the debate today. My colleagues have rightly spoken to each other about this. I know that the cabinet has an eye for disinformation, but I ask the Minister of the Interior in this case: how does the cabinet deal with this? And how does the Cabinet intend to deal with that? What has the Cabinet done to make the other sound about what is being regulated by this law and what is not in it? And where would people go with their questions if they wanted to ask them? Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. Because the measures taken by the government thus affect our daily lives, so intervene and thus affect what moves us deeply, our contact with others, our religious beliefs, must also be put in a position for the representatives of the people to always be able to balance interests between what is really necessary to protect public health and its consequences for our freedoms and our society, between the protection of the vulnerable and also the opportunity to meet loved ones. Because even if there's a virus through our country, we need to have an eye for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u85	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u86	Mr. Chairman. People are worried, worried about whether the Netherlands is ready for the second wave today there are 5,000 new contagion cases of corona in the Netherlands, worried about the economy, concerns about the increase in the number of corona cases in nursing homes. But they also worry about the government, which imposes far-reaching measures and even determines how many people are allowed to come on your birthday. Yeah, corona woke us up hard. Colleagues have already said that the e-mail bombings have been invaded in recent weeks. "Vote against. Don't do it. Please note that democracy is in danger." And yes, we're not deaf to that. We fully understand the doubts and concerns. A Minister of Draconian Affairs who can let the country stay in and commit to working at home requires proper control and indeed requires firm measures. But 50PLUS understands that temporary emergency measures cannot continue to apply for a long period of time. Emergency measures are intended for acute situations. A large-scale fire, an attack, situations in which you must act quickly and intervene, and only be held accountable afterwards. But the current emergency measures are not short-lived. In the current situation, ex post accountability is not acceptable, so we would like to have influence. And we don't want that alone. That's what the city councilmen all over the country want. Those people's representatives are also there to control power. But now both the Chamber and the city council have checked. Of course, democracy doesn't work that way. That is why we were very critical of this bill. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, the Minister must make many adjustments before we agree to this emergency law. We have some problems with that. That is why I call the first one: the democratic nature of the law. The law now before us gives the Minister the opportunity to restrict various fundamental rights to ministerial rules. Fundamental rights such as religious freedom and the right to meet. The violation of the right to privacy. This gives ministers far-reaching powers and puts the parliament out of play. 50PLUS believes that Parliament should have the right to participate in the decision on the containment of these measures. No measures should be introduced without consultation and approval by Parliament. At the round table, Mr Voermans, Professor of State Law, said his name had just been mentioned, "All decisions that need to be taken should be ratified by Parliament." We attach great importance to this. 50PLUS has therefore co-signed Mrs Buitenweg's amendment which regulates the ratification of the measures. But democracy must also be secured at local level. The bill has so far completely outlawed the city council. In the case of the regional security regions, these decisions should be legitimised by the municipal councils. They must have influence. That is why we considered Mr van der Staaij's amendment to be so important that it strengthens democratic control at local level. Can the Minister indicate whether he wants to achieve this? Thirdly, 50PLUS is concerned about the deadlines, the duration of the law. At first, that's six months, and that's way too long. That's gotta be shorter. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the Minister must return to the Chamber earlier in order to secure a continuation of that new term. There are also many other questions on our side. The bill states that the end of this pandemic is difficult to determine, but who determines that? Should there be agreement on this? Is the realization of a working vaccine the time? It is very strange that only the coronavirus is considered for scaling down measures. Should not other circumstances be taken into account? We hope that the cabinet will look at this again and that tomorrow we will have a calming answer to it. At the moment we see that regular care is being scaled down. We know a lot of people aren't diagnosed right now. That means we're lagging behind. So we would like to be clear about this. The law also states that a distinction may be made according to age; Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen also mentioned it. Distinction must serve a legitimate purpose. 50PLUS understands that a distinction is legitimate in the case of, for example, a distance standard for children or a shopping hour especially for the elderly, but 50PLUS asks if the Minister is careful about this, because age discrimination is unacceptable to us. Can the Minister address this tomorrow? Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS thanks the Minister of Justice and Security. We are pleased to hear that fines for infringements of the one-and-a-half meter measure and the grouping penalty are no longer included in the judicial documentation. Which can't bring about a wedding. 50PLUS still wonders whether this will continue to apply to someone who is fined several times. We support the amendment to limit the amount of the fine to €95. Mr President, 50PLUS is a top priority: the balancing of physical health versus well-being and quality of life. As far as we are concerned, this balance must never be made more rigorous. We are very clear about that. Once upon a time, that was never gonna happen again. As far as we are concerned, we will never accept that elderly people living in a nursing home or a nursing home will not be able to see relatives or relatives for months. That lockdown wasn't that intelligent. We have tabled an amendment to ensure this right of visit. We welcome the broad support for this amendment. I would like to underline this by a personal example. Just before the lockdown, I gave an uncle a brain hemorrhage. A very vital man, in the 80s, who could still ride bikes, maps and you name it. He went into the hospital and then even joined the hospice department of a nursing home, but he got up and he got back on his feet. But he couldn't live at home anymore and had to go to a nursing home. That's where he was put in a room. We weren't supposed to eat anymore downstairs. He wasn't allowed visitors. There was no Wi-Fi. He ran out of credit. He was sitting there all alone. Once a day someone came to bring him food. That is truly terrible. He also said: I actually wanted to jump out the window. That kind of thing should never happen again. It is therefore extremely important to secure this amendment. I hope this is embraced by the whole room. I would like to join with Mrs Kuik and Mrs Van der Graaf in their comments on the questions on the Caribbean Netherlands; quite rightly, I think. In summary. 50PLUS has several objections to the law which, as far as I am concerned, must be resolved before we agree. I therefore hope that the amendments that provide solutions will be embraced by this Minister. Let me just mention our points. The duration of the law should be shortened. There must be more democracy at both national and municipal level. We want a more detailed explanation of how age-based distinction is made. We also want a clear answer to the question of whether fines in the event of a violation will never lead to a note. Finally, our amendment on visiting rights must be implemented, because: never again this degrading loneliness. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u87	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u88	Mr President, for the record, I am also speaking today on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. During the first debate on the corona virus in March 2020, I said that we should keep our heads down and not let fear guide us. At that time, I asked the Cabinet to take proportionate measures which are technically justified. Because before you know it, the cure is worse than the ailment. Unfortunately, this has turned out to be true. The damage is now enormous and we are slowly losing our freedom. Mr. Chairman. In March, we were dealing with an unknown virus. We didn't know what the mortality rate was, and COVID-19 was placed on the A list by the World Health Organization, along with diseases like Ebola. It is right that the cabinet took action at that time. Forum for Democracy also advocated a short lockdown to protect our society as one of the first. Thierry Baudet was the first to ask for a corona debate on 28 January. By the way, he didn't get any support for that. On several occasions, I have given my compliments to the cabinet. The cabinet still faces a very challenging and difficult task. I am aware that we are dealing with a very persistent virus and that we absolutely must be careful, but we must continue to use common sense. Mr. Chairman. We've been seven months and now we know a lot more about the virus. We now know that, for example, young people are much less at risk than older people. We now know that the infection fatality rate is much lower than initially feared. We know that in the outdoors there is much less risk of contamination than inside and we know that ventilation inside is crucial. With that knowledge, we have to do something. It is logical that, with this additional information, we adapt our policies, precisely in the interests of this society, so that the protection of the vulnerable and the impact of the measures for the rest of society are optimised. There are scenarios in which not only the socio-cultural and economic damage would be less, but also the medical collateral damage could be reduced. For example, you could opt for targeted protection for the elderly and vulnerable, so that the rest of society can move forward. It is extremely unfortunate that this scenario is not at least being considered. Mr. Chairman. It is legally clear that you cannot make endless use of emergency regulations. There is a possibility of making use of the exception under Article 103 of the Constitution. The beauty of this is that the States-General has the opportunity to end this situation at all times. But the cabinet expressly does not opt for this possibility, but for this emergency law. The essential difference between the exception under Article 103 of the Constitution and the emergency law is that the State General no longer has the power to end this state of emergency under the emergency law itself. Why does the Cabinet not grant the same rights to the Chamber in the Emergency Act, namely the right to end the situation? Mr. Chairman. The fundamental question to be asked is whether there is an emergency situation. The main criterion here is whether medical care can cope with a second wave. Of course, it doesn't help that the number of intensivecarebeds has been drastically reduced in recent years. In 2015 we were still on 2,200 beds. Right now, we're at just over half of that. If this is the all-encompassing criterion on the basis of which we are taking all kinds of very far-reaching measures, I would have preferred to scale up the ic capacity as soon as possible. At the moment there are just over 200 patients who have tested positive with corona on the ic. That is worrying, but it is no different than in other years. For corona, these figures would not constitute an emergency. In addition, there are other indicators that are unclear. For example, the number of infections is determined by means of a PCR test without further clinical examination. I've talked about this a lot, but I'm gonna do it again. First of all, the PCR test is never meant for this. Secondly, the PCR test, like any test, has a standard error margin, which can lead to a very high number of error positives in low prevalence. Thirdly, there is uncertainty about the Ct value, which is not the same everywhere, which makes results different. Fourthly, the PCR test only measures remains or pieces of viral RNA, which also identifies people who may have had corona six months ago. This means that the PCR test is not actually a test to demonstrate an infection.................................................................................................................................................................... That is exactly what Prime Minister Rutte told us in his first speech. I'm not a PCR test expert, but it's my job to ask questions, so there's more clarity, the PCR test and the presence or absence of an emergency. In the event of an emergency, it is justified to use an emergency regulation. If it lasts too long, it is to be justified to talk about an emergency law. However, Minister De Jonge shines through his aversion to giving openness to, for example, the PCR test. This undermines confidence in an objective determination of a possible state of emergency. Also, Minister De Jonge's remark that the only thing that can get us out of this crisis is a vaccine leads to mistrust. Why wouldn't there be a cure? What happens if there are reliable quick tests? Why does this minister feed fear in society in this unnecessary way? As long as there is no openness and transparency, it will be very difficult for this minister to believe in his statement that there is currently a state of emergency and thereby to support this freedom-limiting emergency law. Anyway, the emergency bill is ahead now. Let us therefore look at the legal aspects of this emergency law. Mr. Chairman. The first version of the Temporary Law measures covid-19 was a licence for our Minister of VWS. If there had not been so much criticism from society, this bill would have been presented to the Chamber unchanged. A number of changes have been made and many good amendments have been tabled which improve the legislative proposal. But even with these changes, the legislative proposal is unnecessary, undesirable, disproportionate and too broad, and there will be too much power on the part of the government, which means we surrender too much of our freedom. Mr. Chairman. This law is unnecessary because, as previously argued, it is currently unclear whether there is an emergency situation. This law is undesirable because it leads to a massive violation of the freedoms that we as individuals have under the Constitution. We don't want the government behind the front door to decide what we're doing. We want to be able to decide for ourselves whether to give someone a hand or a hug. Mr. Chairman. The emergency law is also disproportionate. A maximum sentence of two months in the event of a breach of an established measure such as the safety distance standard or the prohibition on group formation is not proportionate to the offence. Also a fine on not wearing a mouth cap is far-reaching. If someone wears a mask of their own free will, that is of course fine, but an obligation in all public spaces goes far too far. I see people out in the woods wearing a mouth cap and I even hear children wearing a mouth cap in a gym class. You really shouldn't want that. Moreover, you have to ask yourself whether the measures do not go too far at all and cause more damage than they do. The emergency law is also too broad in the sense that the government is given the power not only to restrict our freedom in the fight against an epidemic, but also in the threat of it. The criterion of "serious fear" is already enough for a mayor to intervene harshly in our constitutional rights. I know enough terrified mayors who are afraid to burn themselves on cold water. To these unelected executives, you really don't want to put our freedom in custody. Moreover, the safety net provision of Article 58s makes it absolutely permissible to do so once a circumstance arises. If people weren't already terrified of corona, they are now because of this emergency law. Mr. Chairman. The crux of this emergency law is that Parliament cannot stop an extension. It is fine that the deadline has been reduced to three months, but that is a shame when Parliament is out of line. A healthy distrust of the government is not a disgrace. Perhaps the government can be trusted 100%, but we have no idea who its successor is. It can never be the case that the parliament, and therefore the Dutch people, transfers its power to the government indefinitely. The Buitenweg amendment is, of course, a huge improvement in this emergency law. Compliments for that. But the Buitenweg amendment does not allow for Article 8, which regulates the depreciation clause. Paragraph 4 of this Article provides that the three-month extension is to be notified to the Chamber by means of a light front. This doesn't seem to be a problem, but it can lead to undesirable situations. For example, at a certain point in time, the Chamber can ratify a ministerial arrangement, to which it has been given the opportunity by the Buitenweg amendment. Then there will be a certain ministerial arrangement, and we agree with that. That's well arranged. But let's take the example of a curfew. The Chamber confirms at a certain time that a curfew is set at 8 p.m. That is possible; we have something to say about that. But if this measure is no longer necessary for a long time, then the Chamber will have no option of abolishing it again and the Cabinet will be able, through Article 8, to extend this measure to an infinite extent without having to say anything about it. In order to fix this, I tabled an amendment together with Mr Baudet, which has now been distributed and which you have been able to take note of. Mr. Chairman. Let me turn to the specific measures. I see an interruption coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u89	I understand that Mr Van Haga says: in the end, democratic control by the House of Representatives has been greatly improved with the amendments that we have tabled with eight of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u90	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u91	Mr Van Haga also says that there is a problem because this temporary law can be renewed after three months. That is why you have tabled an amendment. If there is a form of participation for that now, are you in favour of this temporary law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u92	That seems very strong to me, because the law is still not proportionate, because it is not effective, because it contains all kinds of soft provisions such as that there may be some sort of "what was it described as? A serious fear and circumstance and threat of an epidemic. It's all things that are so vague and so powerful that it's still going to be difficult. However, I think that all the amendments are the best ones, but that only applies to Article 58c. I agree with you on this point, but it does not ensure that the light front is repaired in Article 8. We are fixing this with the amendment that I have just tabled with Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u93	Okay. You're gonna fix it, but you're gonna vote against the end anyway, I understand now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u94	You're gonna look very angry right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u95	It's my usual look, to be honest. It's always a touch...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u96	It's not that bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u97	Now the look is very different, but okay. We will do everything we can to minimise freedom and to help achieve the best possible law. I think that law is a freak in the first place. It will be improved in many respects if the amendments are adopted. We shall therefore certainly vote in favour of a good amendment. This is without prejudice to the fact that, as far as we are concerned, the law as a whole is unnecessary, undesirable and disproportionate. So I do not think that we will be voting in favour of this law with these amendments. No, I certainly don't. Once again, Mr Buitenweg's amendment makes it much better and our amendment at least provides for a safety valve, so that a government cannot go on indefinitely with all dystopian measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u98	Let me look at my eyes, because I can see that Mr Van Haga has a keen eye for that. My question concerns the restriction of freedoms. He considers this to be a major objection to this law, partly on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. I myself thought it was important to have legislation, learning from the first wave. At that time, for example, there was only one proposal in the Chamber to ban all religious meetings. There I was terrified that Mr Van Haga and the Forum for Democracy also voted in favour. How am I supposed to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u99	I don't quite understand. What did we vote for?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u100	For the Wilders motion that was tabled in April to ban all religious gatherings for the purpose of the fight against virus. I was rather shocked by such a significant restriction of fundamental rights. You say we have the Constitution, don't you? We also had the Constitution at the time, but a motion told the government to go ahead. Can we trust that our freedoms are sufficiently protected without legal regulation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u101	I think we should say in general that we assume equal monks, equal hoods. We will try to motivate the government to this extent in order to ensure that freedom is as high as possible. When it comes to the balance between religious meetings and other kinds of meetings, I would argue for maximum freedom. The same applies to religious meetings. I wouldn't say that to a great extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u102	But the government said at the April motion that it could not, because it was contrary to the Constitution. You said, Mr Van Haga, as well as the Forum for Democracy and the PVV: it's crisis time now, that Constitution, well, we're just in favour. That's what scares me. On the one hand, you are criticising the law because it affects our freedoms, but on the other hand you are attacking constitutional freedoms without law. By means of a motion, you are calling on the government to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u103	Of course, we didn't know what happened to us in March. There was a virus coming at us from which the mortality rate was unknown. It was said to be in the order of 50%, as with Ebola. At such a time, of course, through the emergency regulation, you have the opportunity to set aside freedoms. I don't think it's that weird. If there is a sudden outbreak of war, I also assume that you agree with me that the government may take certain measures for a short time. With the knowledge of today, that becomes a different story. If we voted in favour of such a motion at that time, that is in line with the situation at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u104	We don't know what's gonna happen now. In fact, you say: if something happens again that we do not expect and which is very serious, the line is that without legislation based on an emergency regulation, fundamental rights can be severely restricted. That's actually what I hear you say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u105	Yes, if war breaks out or a nuclear bomb falls on the Netherlands, then you have emergency regulations and then you can. Of course, you have to do this as briefly as possible and with as little impact as possible. But that's the law. What we have before us is an emergency law in which it is poured into concrete. Then I wonder whether this is necessary, desirable and proportionate at the moment and whether the law, in the way it was drafted, is the right one. The fact that 36 amendments have already been tabled suggests otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u106	I have a technical question. I just heard Mr Van Haga say that he thinks that arrangements that are going to be subject to this law should stop at some point. That is what the amendment would be about. However, I have read the amendment, which deals with the expiry of the law as a whole. It is therefore not entirely clear to me what Mr Van Haga means.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u107	Are you talking about our own amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u108	I don't know if it's one or two. You mentioned the ending of regulations which are governed by the law, but the amendment you tabled in respect of item No. 35 is about the expiration of the whole law. My question is: what exactly do you want to propose?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u109	I referred to two amendments. One was Mrs Buitenweg's amendment. That corrects the ministerial arrangements. That's what we're here for. The second was the safety net... Maybe that's the wrong word. Let's say the security on the extension of this law. If this law lapses, there will be a slight pending procedure. This happens, for example, after six months or, if an amendment is adopted, after three months. We want to change that slight suspension procedure in line with the Buitenweg amendment, so that it will also be a heavy pending procedure. It goes through parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u110	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u111	I need to see where I left off. On the amendment. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u112	Aren't the pages numbered?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u113	Yeah, I numbered them, but I lost a few pages.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u114	Take it easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u115	Well, well, well. I would have stayed with the Buitenweg amendment. That is a huge improvement on this emergency law. I just said it in the interruption, so I think I'm gonna skip this. However, it is worth noting that the Buitenweg amendment ensures that a ministerial arrangement must pass through the Chamber. The amendment that I tabled with Mr Baudet ensures that the Chamber is involved in an extension in the same way. I think that's the best way to put it. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to mention the specific measures, which may not be part of this. A lot of people don't see the logic anymore. That is why I would like to call on the Cabinet to think more closely about the impact and logic of the measures from now on. If a measure is technically well-founded, then it is also more acceptable. Then a lot of discontent probably disappears. Why, for example, would you set a limit of 30 people per location? 30 people in a brown bar is really not comparable to 30 people in the Ziggo Dome. How can it be explained that the brothels are open there, by the way, there is a duty to cover the mouth, but a concert for 50 people in the outdoors is not allowed? Why can 30 people sit in a classroom together all day, but can't the same students do homework together? How is it that 600 people are allowed to meet for a divine service, while the catering industry has a limit for 30 people? Why do people in Staphorst get to sing unhindered in the church, but do soccer supporters, according to our Prime Minister, have to shut up? How can you set a one-and-a-half meter rule if you can't back up why you're doing that? The World Health Organization advises 1.0 meters, but we have taken 50% more. You have to be able to explain that, because half of the catering business is going bankrupt because of this one foot and a half. In addition, perhaps a word about the effects of the measures. These measures have a major impact on society. It seems that the cabinet does not take the collateral damage with it in the introduction of the measures that have already been taken. Several scientists raise the alarm and state that the social, cultural, economic and medical collateral damage is many times greater than the damage caused by COOVID-19. Even Ernst Kuipers fully admitted this during the last broadcast of Jinek. Students unite at home behind their laptops. Older people don't get visitors from their children anymore. Entrepreneurs see their life's work go up in smoke and go bankrupt massively. Artists are depressed at home without a job. Children are increasingly separated from their parents by all kinds of unnatural rules of conduct. Children are dropped off at the gate of the sports field and parents are no longer allowed to stand along the line. The windows of the swimming lesson are blinded and volunteers have to dry your child. I really wonder if we want to go to such a society. Funerals are organized lonely in very small circles and marriages are reduced to a double date. Welcome to dystopia! Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, this would be an excellent time for a corrective referendum. No one has been able to foresee this crisis in the elections in 2017. I do not think that anyone gave their vote to a party at the time on the assumption that this party would come forward with this emergency law. All things considered, the Democracy Forum can only vote against this law. We understand the threat of the virus, but this emergency law is too much of a violation of our freedoms and the risk is too great, especially if Baudet's and myself's amendment is not accepted, that we will never get these freedoms back. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u116	I have another question about that amendment to Mr Van Haga, because I do not think that explanation is entirely correct. Mr Van Haga is doing himself a little short in Parliament. I understand that he is afraid of a situation in which the Chamber does not think an extension of the law is a good idea, but the Cabinet indicates that it wishes to extend it. Mr Van Haga is right in saying that there is no blockade in the regulation itself. But Mr Van Haga can very easily then, together with Mr Baudet, submit an initiative law containing two things, namely the expiry of the temporary measures law and the date of entry into force. Then it's basically ready if he gets a majority for that in the Second and First Chambers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u117	So you are now saying: you must first agree to a law that is incorrect and that has no provision allowing you to stop that law and pass the parliament, and then you can file a law that then regulates it. I think that's a bit of the reverse.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u118	Your position is that the Chamber can never stop it. I think that is not true, because if there is a majority in both chambers, you can always stop it because both points are at law level. In my view, that is the difference from the discussion we are having on Mrs Buitenweg's amendment on ministerial arrangements. I believe that the Chambers can always stop this law, even though it is not within the rules of the law itself, but by adopting an initiative proposal. So if you have a majority in this house, I think that your fear is unfounded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u119	You are quite right, of course. We can always make a law that reverses all that. We can also hold elections and then change the whole thing, but the law we're talking about right now isn't. That is why we have tabled an amendment that removes this gap.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u120	Finally, Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u121	In my view, the supporting justification for this amendment is not correct and Mr Van Haga is failing himself and the Parliament. It is quite easy to solve by submitting an initiative law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u122	Maybe I can ask you a counter question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u123	No?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u124	No, never mind. I take it that you support my amendment and that we will therefore introduce into this law a guarantee that it will be possible to end this law, because it simply has to pass through Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u125	If you want to ask a counter-question, you can. No? You don't have to? Okay, thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's been quite a while, but the Corona Law is there. You'd say in the event of such an enormous crisis that an emergency law of this kind could come a little sooner. We've waited a long time for it. Mr. Chairman. This emergency law has caused a lot of uncertainty and fear in society, even before it was debated for one second. In a way, it feels like mustard halfway through the meal. The ministers De Jonge, Ollongren and Grapperhaus went into the kitchen together and they came to this recipe. What they had flanked together was just not right. Society didn't plumb the result. The Council of State didn't think it was easy enough. The political parties felt that the cost was far too heavy, also given the number of amendments tabled. It was also necessary for many critical reactions of legal scholars; especially those who know state law well. Mr. Chairman. I am surprised that there is so much criticism of the initial bill. That raises the question of whether you can expect the cabinet to think a little bit better about what it is offering society. It has been said before: there really were tens of thousands of e-mails from disturbing citizens. We've seen demos. Even an announcement that a technical briefing would be held here already meant that people outside thought that the law had already been or would be passed. This requires that we take responsibility for such a legislative proposal, especially as regards communication. I haven't been able to answer all those tens of thousands of e-mails. I haven't been able to read much either, I must add. Would it not have been better for the ministers to work on this law between 1 May and 1 June? Shouldn't they have come up with a broader bill? The administration's handling of this bill reminds me a little of the way it deals with the corona crisis. The social context is inextricably linked to this emergency law. I note that there is a great deal of resistance in society. The support for the cabinet and for the approach is reduced every day. I sincerely wonder how the cabinet remains in touch with society and how it weighs it. I have criticized constructively the government's strategy in this corona crisis from the very beginning. I note that there is a great deal of promise and too little achievement. That doesn't do the support. It gives too much a sense of distrust. Again and again the assessment appears to be too optimistic, targets are not achieved and there are also false assumptions. I am talking, for example, about the test capacity. I am talking about the fact that Minister Hugo de Jonge indicated that on 18 and 19 April we are making that corona app. That was a fiasco. There appeared to be insufficient medical mouth caps. An effective regional approach was promised, whereby fireplaces would be quickly extinguished. Turns out that didn't work out well. A system with a dashboard and a signal value would lead to actions to control the virus, but those actions were not enough either. Each time it was hammered on: be good and clear in your communication; come up with clear approaches and follow clear rules, for everyone. It seemed as if with every press conference, every debate in the Chamber and every next step in the approach the confusion only increased: whether or not there were mouth masks, an opinion for four provinces, but only a national opinion, an urgent opinion, a mandatory advice or an obligation. I thought it was special that we didn't actually make a decision here in the Chamber until last week about what we would do with the mouth caps. I didn't like that either. I think you can expect the cabinet to take the lead in that. The bill is widely discredited. This is primarily due to the cabinet itself. Of course, this has to do with the previous versions that have come up with broad criticism. I just indicated that. The impression was created that Minister De Jonge, as a kind of dictator, could declare a state of emergency and unilaterally and without the intervention of Parliament far-reaching measures, even behind the front door. We are now dealing with a stripped-up law, especially if the amendments are adopted. The government wanted the first version to be able to enter your house and pass fines there. The first version would be valid for a year. Parliament should be watching for more or less a year. Luckily, it was six months. And last week, in the proposal, that period of validity was reduced to three months. That now lies in the widely signed amendment tabled by Groothuizen and others. A law of three months is already more visible. Fortunately, it was able to intervene behind the front door removed. There is no curfew with fines and arrests in the law and there is no compulsory vaccination. I would like to say this again once more, and I have had an interrupting debate with the Prime Minister earlier on, because that really lives within society. Fortunately, there is also no mandatory, fine-maintained quarantine. And the corona app has been taken out, a little against the will of Minister De Jonge. The Dutch Data Protection Authority really held on to the privacy, something that in an earlier version is a lot to be done about. In fact, that was voted on yesterday in the First Chamber. Through general measures of governance and ministerial arrangements, there is always involvement of the Chamber. The criminal record entries have also been removed from the law, even with retroactive effect. When I tabled a motion for a resolution here on 20 May, which was widely adopted, I received a letter back from Minister Grapperhaus, in which he said: that is not possible at all, that is too complicated, we are going to maintain it this way, we think it justified that people should pay €390 fine and get a note. I thought that was really weak. I find that unfair. But luckily, that's not gonna happen anymore. The group of DENK wants all Dutch who have been fined to get their overpaid euros back with retroactive effect. Is that gonna happen? If that is not the case, we are also considering tabling a motion on this point. Apart from legal logic, which we are discussing today in particular, there is, of course, the aspect of the imagery. Around the corona law there is just a lot of noise. Many people think that the police can enter their homes at any time and issue fines or impose a provision. In addition, there are serious concerns about this law and respect for individual freedom and equality in our community. There is also increasing resistance to following rules. In my opinion, the last thing we can use now is that a lot of people in society are opposed to the government because they just can't follow it anymore, because they're afraid. It is crucial that this cabinet communicates the new adapted law very well, so that fear and resistance are removed. There's been a lot of talk about communication. That's kind of the Achilles heel of this cabinet. And yet it has to be. I'm asking how the Cabinet is going to handle this. How does the cabinet come up with a plan to communicate in such a way as to increase support in society? Is there any plan of action at all if the resistance to this law from society continues to increase? I therefore call for an integrated plan for communication, if possible even before the vote is taken, because I believe that the cabinet itself should make an ultimate effort to remove the negative imagery and the noise that it has caused most of itself. The cabinet must also try to meet the doubters and critics. In fact, I believe that all Dutch people have the right to a good explanation from the cabinet. The frustration, uncertainty and anger we experience must be removed as much as possible. Is the cabinet prepared to come up with a coherent communication strategy and a clear explanation of the law? For DENK, this weighs heavily in the assessment of this bill. I will conclude with a section, quite detailed, on the new Article 58j. Paragraph 2 of this Article states that the so-called burqa ban does not apply if the facial cover prohibited since last year is the result of the wearing of personal protective equipment. Can the Minister explain this legal provision just as well? Does the cabinet mean the nose-mouth masks, or does that also apply to other face-covering elements? If the burqa itself or other clothing also offers a personal protection against the influx or release of viruses, is that true? Then such a burqa or other garment is de facto a kind of personal protection, isn't it? And in equal cases, there must be equal treatment. In any case, that is the scope of Article 1 of the Constitution. In short, Mr President, may I assume that the so-called burqa ban, the partial ban on facial clothing, is de facto outlawed for the period of the present law, at least in so far as a burqa or other garment prevents as many viruses as the nose-mouth mask referred to in Article 58j does? This will usually be the case, as the same substances are used. Still, it's striking. I tabled a motion on this matter last week. The cabinet rejected that motion and the motion was also largely voted away by the Chamber, but I think it says so. I would also like a response from the Minister on this point. Mr President, thank you for presiding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u127	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. Mr. Azarkan, as long as the meeting isn't suspended, you can't talk to the cabinet. That goes without corona, too. Those are the unwritten rules. Anyway, this was the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-7.u128	Tomorrow at 10:15, the government will respond. For now, I shall suspend the sitting until 6 p.m.
