ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome everyone, particularly, of course, the MPs and the Prime Minister. The next item is the debate on the European Summit on 17 and 18 July 2020. I give the floor to Mr Wilders as the first speaker. He speaks for the PVV. I propose that four questions be put to each other in the first term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Madam President. On Friday there will be another European summit on the so-called recovery plan and the new European budget. The first summit on this subject, in June, was already a wretched display of urophils who want to distribute, but above all want to receive, other people's money. This, while we have an economic crisis here in our own country, the unemployment rate will double next year to 700,000, and companies will hit massive numbers, as in the hospitality sector, where almost half of the businesses are already technically bankrupt. While ordinary people lose their jobs and self-employed jobs and can hardly afford to pay their rent, mortgage or groceries for their families, Prime Minister Rutte is going to distribute our money in Brussels. It doesn't get much perverse. So no extra money for the food banks in the Netherlands, who get it more busy by the day. No money for a VAT cut to reinvigorate our own economy. No money for all those self-employed who have to bite through the introduction of the partner test. No lower own risk in caring to reduce the costs for people who are ill. No lower income tax for Dutch people, so they will have more money at the end of the month. No, none of this, nothing at all. But EUR 750 billion from a so-called recovery fund for countries such as Italy, Spain, France and Poland. And that fund is not necessary at all, because there is already a support fund of EUR 540 billion. That support fund, which already exists, has not yet been used by any southern European country. I understand that, because of course they don't want to borrow money, but they want to receive it for free, as a gift. But the need isn't that high at all. I have not even mentioned this ridiculous budget of nearly EUR 1100 billion for the United States of Europe. There's no way it's gonna go on. Mr. Chairman. That support fund, the recovery fund and the budget together amounts to more than EUR 2,300 billion. 2,300 billion euros. As we all know, the Netherlands stands for about 6% of these contributions and guarantees. That is EUR 135 billion. 135 billion Dutch euros. That is almost €17,000 per Dutch household, per Dutch family. Let all this be understood: €17,000 per Dutch family. That's money being thrown into a bottomless pit. These are staggering amounts for the transfer union that the European Union has now become. We must draw the wallet, while other countries are allowed to receive the money, our money. We are already the crazy Henkie of the European Union, but if the Prime Minister agrees, he is really lost. Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister Rutte is the man from the Netherlands who will be present at the summit next Friday. The key question now is what country he'll be sitting on. Is he there on behalf of the Netherlands or is he defending the interests of the Italians, Spaniards, the Poles and the Portuguese? I say to you: if the Prime Minister is really there on behalf of the Netherlands, he will say no, he will say no. No to the recovery fund. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No to a higher budget. No to the whole package. The Prime Minister cannot agree to a EUR 175 billion recovery fund for Italy, EUR 140 billion for Spain and EUR 65 billion for Poland, and even France will receive a gift, a gift, of EUR 40 billion, while the Dutch will have to pay. That's total insanity. We must spend our money here in our own country on our own people. It is therefore unacceptable for the Prime Minister to agree to a recovery fund, even if it is subject to strict conditions. We do not accept that the Prime Minister, just like before in Greece, after some kettle music finally simply signs at the cross. His European friends have already worked and massaged him quite well. Everything was taken out of the closet: a lunch with Macron, a meeting with Michel at the Catshuis, a wine with Merkel in Berlin, last Friday a dinner with the Italian Prime Minister Conte..................................................................................................... They all had one message for the Prime Minister: whether the Netherlands wanted to be a little less dirty and a little more solidarity with the countries of southern Europe, which were already having a hard enough time. I think it went about like this. Okay, Mark, they said there's a lot of corruption with us, but we're working on that. And okay, we've lived on too great a footing for years, but yes, that was with other people's money and we don't see that as a problem ourselves. And it is true that taxes are being evaded on a large scale by us, but yes, that is our culture. And okay, we are indeed a little less productive in Europe and we are retiring a little earlier than you, but that also has a lot to do with the climate with us: we need our rest and our siestas very much. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands must say no and veto. Let them collectively get it back and forth. A nexit is what we need. These common debts, those European taxes, those European part-time WW, SURE, an investment fund, a guarantee fund, a recovery fund with gifts and loans for southern European countries and a higher European budget: they are all things we should not want.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u3	If Mr Wilders had to choose between a higher Dutch contribution to the European budget or more European taxes to finance this recovery fund, what choice would Mr Wilders make?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u4	I wouldn't want either. I don't want that whole recovery fund. In fact, I call on the cabinet to veto it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u5	That is clear, but that choice is certainly ahead of us. There will be a European recovery fund. That much is clear. There will also be an ambitious European budget. Then this Prime Minister can do two things. Or bet on limiting the Dutch contribution and thus adding European own resources, European taxes, to the way we finance Europe or increase the Dutch budget anyway. Again the question to Mr Wilders: if he had to choose between a higher Dutch contribution and European taxes, what choice would he make?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u6	Again, neither. It is completely wrong what Mr Jetten says, that the fund is going to be there. The fund doesn't have to be there. The summit is yet to come, and I call on Mr Rutte to veto that recovery fund. If Mr Rutte vetoes that recovery fund, there will be no recovery fund. Mr Rutte has already said that he is going to agree. As far as my group is concerned, that would damage confidence in him. Then we'd say he doesn't have our trust anymore. We, as the Netherlands, should spend that money here in the Netherlands and not in Italy or Spain. Because you know, Mr. Jetten, what happens to it, what the French are going to do with that money? According to the latest calculations, France will receive a grant of 39 billion. A country like France! And do you know what they're gonna do? French health care workers it's in today's newspaper get 8 billion raises. With our money, France is going to give their care workers 8 billion in raises. I would say stop it, give that money to those Dutch care workers, who are still waiting for their raise. It is too embarrassing for words to say that, with our money, because the 40 billion that France is getting, our money is also going to finance the care workers there, even though that is not at all settled with us. Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Get rid of it! And the money for which we stand or that we have to contribute, we have to spend here in our own country on our own people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u7	In addition to reading this article, I would advise Mr Wilders to read the articles of Dutch entrepreneurs, Dutch universities and Dutch scientists, who insist that this European recovery fund is in the Dutch interest, that every euro we invest in it will come back here several times in Dutch jobs and in Dutch employment. And then I say again: if we can finance it with European taxes, I think that is also a story that makes the Dutch electorate happy. Because that is not money that the Dutchman is looking at on his paycheck or tax return, but that is taxes that we impose on polluting Chinese companies, on large American tech companies that are now hardly paying taxes in Europe. That should also be addressed by Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u8	Listen, how can that appeal to me? We want to leave the European Union. I want a nexit, and then you come in with European taxes. We should never start with European taxes at all, Mr. Jetten. Raising European taxes means giving even more sovereignty. It means that we are simply giving the European Union the legitimacy to raise its own money. That's the last thing we have to do. They then of course start with the Googles and things that everyone thinks are sympathetic. But the next step is that all Dutch people at home get a blue envelope with European stars. That is the next step and then we are all going to pay European taxes. We must never allow the European Union to levy taxes, and we must certainly not put our hard-earned money into a recovery fund in a time of crisis. I cannot repeat it enough: there is already a fund. A fund I don't like either. There is already a fund with EUR 540 billion, of which I believe is EUR 200 or 300 billion from the ESM. The countries of southern Europe have been able to use that money for a number of months now, without conditions, in my view. And they haven't used that money yet. I've heard the Prime Minister say that in the last few days. It is therefore a fact that the existing fund of EUR 540 billion, on which anyone can subscribe under no or hardly any conditions, has not been used. So there's no crisis: they don't need the money. If those countries in southern Europe were to be the ones to say nothing, they would have signed up massively. They didn't. Why didn't they? Because they'd rather get the money as a gift than borrow it and have to repay it, which they'll never do, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u9	Mr Wilders makes a roaring speech, of which I share a number of elements. But he's actually walking around. He uses great words: 'a veto', 'it is unacceptable' and 'we must get out'. I would like to hear from Mr Wilders about the latter. From the European Union: it sounds so easy, but what will happen? Then let's get out of that single market. This is bad for our economy as an exporting country. Mr Wilders then says: we must do what Switzerland and Norway do. That's what he said last time. These countries, however, take over almost all European rules. What is Mr Wilders' alternative to what is being said and what might be decided? Nexit? Mr Wilders is not a populist, by the way...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u10	Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u11	... because most Dutch people don't want a nexit at all. So it's not a populist party. But for a moment, what exactly does the nextit look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u12	Thanks for the compliment. Allow me to compliment Mr Mulder before I answer the substance of that question. It's a little off-topic, but I've seen him in a triptych over Srebrenica the past few days. I would like to say how politically we may differ, even now, that I have great respect for Mr Mulder and his fellow soldiers who were in a very unfair situation where they could not do anything about it and ended up in a terrible situation. I heard from Mr Mulder that he would even have been called a coward on the street. He's not. He's someone I have great respect for, and I have the same respect for all his other people. That's what I want to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u13	Thank you, also on behalf of my fellow Members, because it was very emotional indeed. I can see that it's hitting me again, now that Mr. Wilders is bringing it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u14	Hundred percent serious. Then there is the substantive question. We're in favour of a nexit, and that's what we've had investigated. We've had an English agency called Capital Economics look at it, and that's calculated for us what it would mean. By the way, we would keep access to the internal market in our story. I have to be honest with you about that. In that scenario, as calculated in 2016, the Dutch economy in eight years would have grown 10% more than if we had stayed in the European Union. Dutch households would have received around €10,000 extra in the decades that followed, also due to the abolition of the rules. Indeed, in the early years it would have hurt. That's right. A nexit would have hurt every country in the beginning. But in the longer term, I am convinced that it is good, provided that we remain a member of the internal market. Everyone says: look at Switzerland and what they still pay. That's right, Switzerland's paying for it. But what Switzerland pays as a price per year to gain access to the internal market is a fraction, a crumb, I believe 1% or 2% of what we are paying now. So I would say, let's get started as soon as possible. Perhaps there are other countries, after the United Kingdom, that want to do so. Perhaps you and the other countries could form something of a union, with the northern countries. In short, there are plenty of alternatives. There is one thing we must not do, and that is to move forward from those united states of Europe. I heard Mr Jetten, the largest Europhile in this Chamber, proudly about that in his first interruption. He said for a reason: let us be happy with European taxes, with even more Europe and more money; very good that Rutte is doing so. That's all the wrong way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u15	We also discussed the Capital report with Mr Wilders last time. It leads to panic in the financial markets. That's been taken out. But now a little sharp about Norway and Switzerland. Mr Wilders says that they can join the internal market. Yeah, but they also have to take over all the rules. They have nothing to say about that and they have to pay contributions. So the story of Mr Wilders is: we are going to pay contributions, but no longer have any influence on the rules that we simply have to download and accept. Is that what Mr Wilders wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u16	No, we have a huge profit. A. We're running out of contributions. That's gonna be a fraction. B. I am sure that a new Dutch government will not go to Merkel because Mr Rutte will go to Merkel, cut and bend, drink a glass of wine and do everything Angela wants to do, which will really negotiate when the Netherlands leaves the European Union, can get a much better deal than the Swiss or the Norwegians. And remember that you have your hands free when it comes to immigration from outside the European Union, for example. You will no longer have to participate in major agreements on asylum flows that are undoubtedly coming. We all know that the population in Africa is going to explode in the coming decades. You'll have your hands free, you'll be sovereign. The European Union is no longer about this, even if you are a member of the internal market. You can take back your sovereignty completely, for example when it comes to immigration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u17	Mr Wilders is dreaming. Look at Switzerland, which held a referendum a few years ago to limit migration to Switzerland. The result of that referendum is not being carried out because the European Union says that you will no longer be a member of the internal market. Mr Wilders is being very easy. He says, "Self-negotiating and then he'll be okay." Keep dreaming, Mr. Wilders. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u18	It certainly is. Again, we are not Switzerland. Switzerland is doing more economically than many countries in the European Union. I am convinced that we could get an even better deal out of it. It is not the case that, on balance, we would get the same deal as a Switzerland or a Norway. If we negotiate properly, we could get a better deal and be responsible for our own money, our own budget, our own immigration policy. We could spend those billions on raising the salaries of our own care staff, rather than in France. I just mentioned the example of the French and their care staff. The Italians are now planning to lower their VAT. England and Germany have already done that. They have all reduced their VAT. The Italians are going to do the same, but they are waiting for the package of Prime Minister Rutte and Angela Merkel to get through. We then simply pay the VAT reduction in Italy. We pay for the fact that the Italians are retiring early. Ridiculous! Why does the Dutchman have to pay for that? We need to lower our own VAT, help our own pensioners, and we need to spend our money on our own care staff and not give it to countries that have to take care of it themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u19	Mr Van Ojik always has short interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u20	Yes, you're used to it from me, Mr. Chairman. I won't let you down. Mr Wilders' plea for a nexit always comes along. That makes sense, because that's what he thinks. In doing so, he relied on a study which he himself had done, more than four years ago. Now we get almost daily new information about how the Brexit goes. Among other things, this week, figures came from Bloomberg, which says that the Brexit has cost the UK USD 170 billion so far. There may be another 100 billion this year. Are those figures perhaps a reason for Mr Wilders to reconsider this? Or does he say: no, I did an investigation then and I believe it will be all right in the long run?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u21	It would be a relief if we left the European Union. Your story about the United Kingdom is very one-sided. We all know Unilever and maybe Shell. I am not saying that I welcome their departure, because of course I would also prefer that these companies remain in our own Netherlands, with all the jobs they have. But they're leaving. Unilever goes to the United Kingdom and I know which others will follow. I have already said, as our report shows, that it will hurt at first. In the long term, however, the Netherlands will make a huge contribution. It brings us money, it brings us economic growth and, again, sovereignty in our own immigration policy. I say to Mr van GroenLinks that the day we leave the European Union the sun will shine again in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u22	The day the UK decided to leave the European Union began to run the counter. It's up to 170 billion dollars now. That has cost the UK and that counter continues every day. While we're standing here talking, we're gonna add a few more million. Then you can say: one day the sun will shine, when I get my way. But perhaps it is also a good idea to see what is happening in the UK now, as we speak. I invite Mr Wilders to do so. I can't hear him about that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u23	The United Kingdom will be richer than any other country. Just look at the immigration restrictions. You remember that, too, the PVV had an external agency examine it. This immigration cost us at least 7 billion by now. The investigation was based on an influx of 25,000 a year. Meanwhile, you can calculate that limiting immigration in the Netherlands, from non-Western immigrants, will save our country 10 billion a year. This will save our country EUR 10 billion a year. And I'm not even talking about all the other things that come together with that sovereignty, if we want it back. I am convinced that if we leave the European Union, if there is to be a nexit, we will not only regain our sovereignty, but we will flourish economically. The VVD colleague was just talking about Switzerland. Switzerland had years before the European Union had bilateral free trade agreements with China and Japan. The countries of the European Union had yet to discuss and negotiate the negotiating mandate with each other. The countries that were not in the European Union had a free trade agreement much earlier with the largest growth economies in Asia, China and Japan. We could do that, too. The United Kingdom will be able to do the same in the long term. We will have pure profits by decoupling that terrible European Union. All right, Mr. Chairman, I'll keep going. Why should the Dutch taxpayers pay for the deficits in Italy and Spain? Let them keep their own pants. Let the Italians, I said it to the Prime Minister in the previous debate, but finally collect taxes on their own citizens, who are three times as rich, three times as rich as the average Dutchman. They have three times less debts than the average Dutchman. That also makes sense, because they hardly have to pay taxes now. In Italy's banks' lockers alone, there is EUR 200 billion worth of black money and stuff that have never been taxed. And for those who don't believe me: the president of the Italian bank, the good man called Ignatio Visco, literally says that Italy misses 100 billion euros a year of tax revenue through tax evasion, illegality and organised crime. When we look at the MFF, that Multiannual Financial Framework, that new budget of the European Union, that is EUR 700 billion in seven years' time that the Italians miss out on. That's the whole recovery fund. They can collect that amount on their own. If they tax in the coming years, they will have the 700 billion in seven years, and that's all for themselves. So let them do it nicely, then we don't have to do it for them. It cannot be the case that the Dutch taxpayer must pay for an Italian who evades the tax. Nor can it be that a Dutchman who avoids tax gets a fine and can even go to jail, and that an Italian does not pay a fine and gets a check of 170 billion euros thrown in his lap. That's the world upside down, isn't it? Mr. Chairman. A little guy with spine says no to that terrible recovery plan and vetos it. There's no other option. For me and my group, this matter is very fundamental. I therefore ask the Prime Minister to give an explicit answer: is he prepared to veto the whole recovery plan? If he doesn't, I know I've done it before, but this one is very fundamental, and I can only give up confidence in this Prime Minister in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u24	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. I give the floor to Mr Alkaya on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u25	Thank you, Mr President. When I was preparing this debate as a replacement for Renske Leijten, I could not avoid the next thought. Imagine that we would be in a well-functioning European Union, a Union in which the institutions in Brussels are not constantly lurking to draw more money and more powers from the sovereign Member States towards themselves and a Union in which governments in the north, the south and the east trust and respect each other in principle. How would we have had this debate? Then how were we to fight the common enemy, the corona virus? Mr. Chairman. We will never know, because the European Union is not functioning well. Unfortunately, because international solidarity is urgently needed. The Socialist Party sees two fundamental problems in the European Union that block genuine solidarity and has a number of questions to the cabinet. The first fundamental problem is that we are too often forced to debate the desire for power of European institutions. Again, in the midst of the corona crisis, each time it is about more money that has to go to Brussels, about more powers, more people. Constantly extending what is happening in Brussels, and now again. On top of the regular budget, a megalomaniac fund of over 800 billion euros is proposed: 750 billion at the 2018 and 800 billion price levels if you add it all together over the years. From this can be paid all kinds of very different things that seem to have very little to do with the recovery of the corona crisis. From agriculture to tourism and from medicine to climate action and digitalisation: virtually everything the European Commission already wanted seems now to be able to do with this new fund, all under the heading of corona measures. This is distracting from the discussion we should be talking about and creates mistrust. The cabinet itself has already indicated that it needs to be better substantiated for precisely what this money is needed. Does the government believe that the European Commission has now sufficiently substantiated that all the planned expenditure from this fund, which thus amounts to as much as the Dutch economy as a whole, is actually intended to combat the corona crisis? The European Commission therefore wants this amount on top of the regular budget. Mr Wilders has already pointed it out: on top of the opportunity they have already had to grant favourable loans to countries, for example to reduce working hours. In addition, this would almost double the EU's budget: it would be over 2,000 billion. That's right, I'll ask the cabinet. What does the Prime Minister think of such a doubling if this were to become a reality? The SP is precisely for a more modest and efficient European Union, but the European Commission is always looking forward to the opposite. The Commission itself also wants to raise more money, i.e. more own resources. Does the cabinet still share the view that taxation by the European Union is undesirable and that it has nothing whatsoever to do with international solidarity and the fight against the corona crisis and that it is therefore actually irresponsible of the European Commission to propose this right now, in the midst of a crisis? Is the Prime Minister prepared to block any proposal that will contain more EU taxes? The SP is for making agreements on taxation. Let me be clear on that. So if we agree on minimum rates to stop tax competition between countries, that's good. But this is and remains the ultimate responsibility of sovereign countries and national representatives of the people. Mr. Chairman. In addition to Brussels' desire for power, the second fundamental problem in our Union is that there is too little understanding and too little respect for the differences in the economies of the Member States. This cabinet, too, calls for economic reforms in exchange for support. This often amounts to further reduction of the welfare state in the south, while they themselves have to deal with it and continue to deal with it themselves. Of course, agreements on what possible aid is being spent and how it is being monitored are fine. But if, in the middle of a crisis situation, you insist on austerity elsewhere in the economy, which we have unfortunately already implemented in the Netherlands, then you are hindering real solidarity in our Union and insulting those countries deeply. When's the cabinet gonna stop doing this? Many governments in our Union are already deeply in debt, already. The call for even more appropriations with strict conditions only increases the problem. It also increases mistrust in the Union. I therefore call on the Cabinet to refrain from this path. If aid is to be conditional, agree on minimum rates of profit tax for multinationals, on the reception of orphans in refugee camps or on the rule of law and democracy in Member States. Mr. Chairman. As long as, on the one hand, we are dealing with a powery Commission in Brussels and, on the other hand, so much distrust between Member States, as long as we do not address these two fundamental problems in our Union, we are unfortunately disabled in every crisis situation. But international solidarity is urgently needed. For example, the creation of the EU4Health programme to help each other when national care is inadequate seems to be a step in the right direction. Fortunately, at the height of the crisis, we also saw that some countries were trying to help each other. For example, Germany made places in an intensive care department available for Dutch patients. It seems useful and logical to establish a structural partnership for similar crisis situations. The necessary budget for this particular component is also 9 billion. That's relatively limited. We're not talking about hundreds of billions, we're talking about 9 billion for a specific problem. Can the cabinet insist on a clear mandate for EU4Health, which, as far as we are concerned, should only be given a role in crisis situations and not in regular care? And can the cabinet ask for a plan for how the people in the program and the people in rescEU, an existing programme, will soon have to cooperate with each other, so that there is no duplication of effort and no money is wasted? Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister's position is strong. The Netherlands does not have to agree to a larger European Union. But the southern countries do not have to agree, nor do they have to accept that they are being pushed further into debt and misery with credit and strict conditions. We need to figure it out together. Finally, therefore, an appeal to the cabinet: make an agreement whereby a common enemy in the future, such as the coronavirus, will not divide us further, as seems to be happening now, but will, on the contrary, unite us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u26	Thank you, Mr. Alkaya. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u27	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. No one characterizes the Dutch attitude in the EU debate as strikingly as the Prime Minister himself can. Of course, that makes sense. "We're really not that annoying," he said Sunday night at Op1. "What if the southern European countries can just cling to a rock above a deep canyon with their fingertips?" I don't know which one of you saw it. I don't know if you've seen it, Mr. Chairman. "If they can just cling to the rock above a deep canyon, we're not going to put our cigarette on those fingers," said the Prime Minister. He's shaking no now. He's not gonna do that. Well, that's not so bad. That is reasonable, I would say. They'll be happy about that in southern Europe. We're not gonna drop them, but we're not gonna save them; they're gonna have to do it themselves. That's it, I'm asking the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. In the last week, there has been a certain pride in the coverage of the run-up to next week's summit. They all come to The Hague: Macron, Sánchez, Costa, Conte. The Prime Minister had to go to Merkel himself, but still, we matter. Holland speaks with a word. I'm afraid we're counting ourselves a little rich here, literally and figuratively. Yeah, we're getting a lot of attention, but it's the attention that the annoying little boy gets that's always in the back of the class, while the teacher finally wants to get on with the lesson. How does the Prime Minister himself view this? "Rutte's resistance is damaging the European recovery," headlined the Financial Times yesterday. Well, it's just the Financial Times; you can say that. But maybe the Prime Minister takes that seriously. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that in recent months the Netherlands seems to have alienated itself from what one might call the main stream in the European response to the covid pandemic? And if he agrees with me, is that a matter of strategy? Or is it really just because of the money: we want to be economical; we are known as economical and want to stay so? Are we looking at it politically enough? Rutte is paying lip service to a stronger and geopolitical EU that he wrote in the Financial Times yesterday, but is not prepared to accept the price tag attached to it. I can't wait to hear his reaction. I am also curious about the appreciation of the cabinet on how long we are going to keep up this resistance. What will be left of the Dutch objections in the end? Not an extra cent in the MFK? The proposal now before us will, if I understand it correctly, cost the Netherlands about 600 million extra a year. No subsidies, but loans? Better justification of the amounts? Is it necessary? Do you have to do it that fast? What will be left of these objections? Mr. Chairman. As I did in the previous debate, it was only recently that I would like to call on the Prime Minister not to make the mistake of putting the Dutch interest and the European interest against each other. That's what it was about last time. The Prime Minister said: "You can't blame me for standing up for Dutch interest. When I looked into that pot of money, Mr Wilders also talked about it, "is it still really full, so what are we talking about?" I would like to call for the Dutch interest and the European interest to be extended. The cabinet has written to us once again that the Dutch priorities and European priorities, the priorities of the European Commission... I do not believe at all in a devious European Commission which is trying to snatch the money out of our pockets. The European Commission says: we think climate is important, we think security is important, we think digitisation is important, we think migration is important. Let that happen to be the priorities that the Netherlands also has. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister to bring that thinking closer together. I would also ask him to go into that light about what is now before us. It seems that there are a number of points in the new MFF proposal that we have often warned about. That is that the debate on austerity, on 'if it is less', hampers the modernisation of priorities. Look at the austerity that is now being proposed. 26 billion is now being squeezed at the MFF, I say out of my head. There is not a penny of that on agriculture or on cohesion funds. No, migration, development cooperation, foreign policy in general, Horizon Europe, which could really be called a Dutch interest, and InvestEU, which could be called a Dutch interest. These are choices that my group does not feel comfortable with. I would like to ask the Prime Minister for his appreciation, for his commitment at the European summit at the end of this week. I would also ask him to address the question of whether this narrow focus on money is likely to be at the expense of the modernisation of the budget that we are so keen to see. I should like to conclude with two positive points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u28	If Mr Van Ojik does not see or say that he does not see the devious way in which the Commission is acting, I cannot escape the impression that he may be pursuing the same objective and therefore does not see it. Let's get an example out of it. What exactly are we talking about? Now we have big stories and big words. Digitisation. Then it's really about re-training people so they can work with computers, automating small and medium-sized enterprises and the like. Why should the European Union do this better than the Netherlands itself? Why should there be more money here because of the corona crisis because the European Union could suddenly do better than the Member States could before?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u29	That is, of course, a very sensible question. I think there are a lot of areas where we can operate better, stronger and stronger in Europe and where we can use our euro more efficiently than when we do all of this separately as a Member State. In the case of digitalisation, you can argue for European cooperation on a number of points and perhaps not on a number of points, as is the case in many other areas. What I object to is the image that there is an organ outside us that has nothing to do with us, and that is trying to snatch money out of our pockets. That is not only a caricature, but also a damaging caricature. Because that European Commission is sitting there in front of us. It's ours. We're part of that. So he can't sneak us money out of the bag. We are debating today because our Prime Minister is going to Brussels on Saturday or Friday to exert his influence. If he does not do that right, Mr Wilders will come forward with a motion of censure. Then I shall vote against it. That's the process we're all in here in. I'm proud of that. The SP and GroenLinks agree on many points, but I object...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u30	You may sign with us, Mr Wilders says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u31	I understand. I am proud that you can table that motion, I say to Mr Wilders and I am glad that I have the opportunity to vote against it. It is good that we can continue to make that distinction. There are a lot of things the SP and GroenLinks can find each other in, but not at this point. I do not see the EU as anything other than me that is trying to knock my money out of the bag. That's the difference between us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u32	That's the difference. But if we continue to talk to each other at such a high level of abstraction, we cannot make that difference clear to each other and certainly not to the people outside. Then we keep talking to each other in vague terms like that. I'll take an example out of it. I'm saying we both think digitisation is important. The question is, who can do better? Is it better to do it ourselves or should we leave it to the European Commission? I note that the European Commission is putting forward a proposal in the middle of the corona crisis: now that corona has broken out, it is better to spend more money on digitisation. I would appreciate a more critical view from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. It is no longer about the EU, against or for the EU, next or no next. It is specifically a question of who can best carry out this task. In this case, 800 billion is not all money that can be spent better by the European Commission than by the Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u33	I have just said that I think it is a very sensible discussion which Mr Alkaya is referring to. We may come to different conclusions and I say that digitisation is an area where European economies of scale can be achieved, avoid duplication of effort and so on. He's making a different assessment. I think that is a perfectly legitimate discussion. Where my objection, if you will say so, is directed against Mr Alkaya's speech, is that he is talking about the European Commission as an outside body that is trying to snatch money out of our pockets. I'm just gonna say it again. That is an approach that does not appeal to me at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u34	You would end with two positive comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u35	I was going to, yes, but I forgot it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u36	That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u37	No, I want to say something positive on two points. These are two things that my group has worked for. First, the issue of the rule of law. I believe that the cabinet is in line with the retention of conditions in the field of legal status, to impose it on countries that want to use recovery funds and later on on the MFF. I think that's good. I'd like to encourage the Prime Minister. That is about those technical matters, such as qualified majorities or reversed qualified majorities. I really had to find out what the difference was, but I know by now. It is very good that the Prime Minister is committed to this. I still have some concerns about Germany's attitude. That's what I wanted to ask him. It seems as if the German Chancellor says: we should not force too much in this area. Is that a change of course or is it just another way to say the same thing? Finally, Mr President, the issue of climate and phase-out of fossil fuels. It is very good that the cabinet is committed to this. I would like to express my support for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u38	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I call Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u39	Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis brought Europe to a standstill in February. The borders close and the shops empty, but the ICs in many European countries are frighteningly full. Now that the epidemic seems carefully under control, we are focusing on economic recovery. That seems to move Europe, a movement that breaks taboos. The movement first came in the form of a revolutionary proposal by Merkel and Macron: we need to take a new step in European integration, whereby the European Commission can borrow money and the Member States can guarantee subsidies and loans through the budget. Why? Because this is the only way to restore our economies and move forward after the havoc caused by the corona crisis. Without European recovery, no Dutch recovery. Our economy is about trade and exports: from the port of Rotterdam to the runways of Schiphol, from the chipmakers in Eindhoven to our agricultural products. We cannot do without the European market. And no, that economic recovery isn't free. It costs four cups of coffee per Dutch person per year. However, doing nothing and doing nothing will cost us multiples. The corona crisis calls for responsibility for European cooperation. That requires political decisions. We cannot continue to build on the European Central Bank, which is pulling the chestnuts out of the fire for us. Now is the time, because waiting for Italy's debt to be out of control and the financial markets to pass judgment is not an option. We must learn from the euro crisis and prepare for the next stage. Now is the time for an agreement on this European recovery fund. The cabinet embraces the recovery fund, even though we know that it didn't go without a fight. We've come a long way. The statements of our Minister for Finance are probably still fresh in the minds of the Italians. His little jokes in April that we should not take words about a recovery fund seriously, we forget for a moment. The cabinet recognises the need for a large recovery package and supports European taxes on plastics and the ETS and does not object to the Commission borrowing billions for this. The Financial Dagblad recognizes this form of financial innovation as "making new debts together." For example, former member of the VVD-Kammer Member Han ten Broeke says that he is not coronabonds, but that he is a form of coronabonding. He adds: out of well-understood self-interest, the Netherlands, after some concessions, does well to agree to this. This fund will largely consist of grants. We are no longer talking about the need for loans, as the Prime Minister did earlier in the Italian newspapers, even in our press conferences on Friday. We know by now that this enormous fund, the leap forward in European economic integration, will come in the coming weeks. Maybe these views of the cabinet are somewhat offended by the coalition agreement, but I can assure you that my group will not be obstructed on this point. We appreciate the steps the Prime Minister has taken in this respect, but we are far from there. Last week we saw the Prime Minister occasionally as VVD-havik: leader of the dreary four, who wants to show voters in the Netherlands that he fights for every Dutch penny. And that, while he should show that fighting for this fund is just fighting for those Dutch pennies. Because European recovery makes us rich. That is what VNO-NCW and the ESC said: investing in Europe is now in our own interests. That's what the dome of Dutch universities said, which sounded the alarm. By cutting European funds for science and research, the Dutch economy misses 3.6 billion euros. That is why I ask the Prime Minister what his message is to Dutch entrepreneurs and Dutch universities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u40	Mr Anne Mulder, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u41	I see I have one more question, so I have to do my entire review of D66's behavior in one interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u42	I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u43	I'm gonna try that. Mr Jetten is now very proud to tell us what might happen. He has said twice that he wants to break the coalition agreement. I'd say be a man and do it. But what did he do? He first stabbed Minister Hoekstra in the back before the negotiations. Three weeks ago, he supported a motion by the Labour Party that undermines government policy. Be a man and just broke the coalition agreement instead of standing here cowardly with "look how it's coming to me." Be a man!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u44	We have also had this little debate in the previous debate. On a question from the NRC whether I am prepared to break the coalition agreement if it is necessary to achieve a good European recovery fund, my answer has always been clear: yes. When we concluded a coalition agreement three years ago, we did not know what a corona crisis would do to our economy and our business. We have drawn the wallet here in our own country to cope with the impact of that corona crisis. We must do the same in Europe. I would like to say once again that the proposals that are now before us from the Commission and Michel show that things are slowly moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u45	I am in favour of Europe, but I think we should keep thinking. Now Mr. Jetten said at the beginning that Macron and Merkel were getting together, sitting neatly at 1.5 meters, and said they want the fund to be there. The terms have also been discussed a bit. The question then is how we deal with it. This is a crucial, fundamental change. This means that the European Commission will borrow money on its own and will thus have far-reaching powers. In fact, Mr Jetten says that he is fine with that and that he will even support it. Does Mr Jetten think that we have exchanged enough views in Parliament and in society that we want this to happen? Or are we just following what Macron and Merkel want?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u46	I think that, unlike other European Member States, we have had a lot of debate about this in this House in recent times. I think that's wise. I also think it is sensible that, on the eve of this European summit, we should all be able to ask questions to the Prime Minister and give him a specific mandate if we want to do so as a parliament. I also believe that we do not need to sign on the cross if France and Germany have invented something together. In recent months, my appeal has always been: make sure that the Dutch attitude does not harm our interests, because you are nowhere at the table or can participate. Make sure you sit at the table from the beginning to think about how such a fund should be designed and how the European interest can also serve the Dutch interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u47	I am really in favour of a European fund. I think there's already several. The obsession with rigging this fund in this way and with these conditions means once again a fundamental break with the past. I think that Dutch people should know this and that they should be able to find out something about it. You might wonder if it's wise to do this in the middle of a crisis. The corona crisis is being abused a little to take the crucial step that a number of parties want to take. The reason for this is that if other countries do not support us, they are either greedy or not in solidarity. And that, while the Netherlands participates in a lot of cases and thus contributes to solving the problem. Why so obsessive at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u48	I think it's because we simply don't have the luxury of waiting a long time for this. The European economy comes to a standstill in many places. We see the figures on economic contraction this year. We see the figures on difficult recovery next year. Yes, there are many ways in which Member States can borrow to cope with these blows, but more loans and more debts are not the solution for many countries. In this respect, I can agree with what Mr Alkaya has just said. This fund, whereby you can grant grants to countries in addition to loans under conditions to get out of this crisis by investing, is absolutely necessary. This is not only in order to be able to cope with the economic blows in southern Europe, but also for the Dutch business community and Dutch prosperity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u49	But there's no free money. In the proposal now before us, we are using budgetary money. I don't understand that very well. You could use monetary money much better, couldn't you? So I don't understand the instrument to do it this way. Does Mr. Jetten see how we can get that 500 billion or 750 billion... he says people want it for free and don't want to borrow it anymore. The spread in Italy increased to 2.7 in April. I just checked, and it's at 1.2 now. Italy is perfectly capable of financing its own sovereign debt. That's no problem at all. 1.2 is just fine to pay. Why is it obsessed with organising it through a budget structure? So how are we going to repay that in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u50	Italy's spreads on interest rates rose and they calmed down, because the European Central Bank has intervened and because at the beginning of this crisis the European Heads of Government, which was already strong in relation to the previous crisis, have sent out the signal: we are going to help each other to survive this crisis. I also think it is sensible that we look at how the priorities set for this European Commission for the next five years in terms of greening and digitisation, and which are also included in the proposal for the multiannual budget of Europe, can be linked as much as possible to how you are investing in this corona crisis, so that we are actually preparing European business and the European internal market for the economy over the next 10 to 20 years. So that link, that combination, I think it's a sensible one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u51	Last question, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u52	If you look at the proposal, you will see that the European Commission says that, on the basis of the budget from 2021 to 2027, we are raising 500 billion. Or 750 billion, if you like. That means it has to be paid back from 2028. This means that there must be a deletion somewhere in what you can do as the European Commission. Free money just doesn't exist. Somebody's got to pay for that. How are we gonna do that from 2028?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u53	That is what we will guarantee together with all the Member States if the European Commission does so. The question is whether we will need the total amount in the coming years. It is, however, a sign, a signal to restore confidence in the European economy that this fund is being prepared to this extent. By linking it to necessary reforms that need to take place in a number of Member States, you will also further strengthen Europe's earning capacity, so that it will be easier to repay in the long term. That's, I think, been good in the last few months. Everyone in Europe agrees on that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u54	The D66 Group and my group seem to agree on one point, namely that pushing further into the debt of countries already deep in debt will not solve the problem. At the same time, however, we differ fundamentally on the size of the fund which should be used to address the acute needs. I have put my question mark on that. I said it would be $800 billion if you put it all together. When I read what it's all about, it all seems like there are things in there that the Commission was already planning to do. Is Mr Jetten convinced that the 800 billion will also be absolutely necessary? Or is he convinced that the 800 billion will be used partly for plans which the Commission actually already had, but for which there was no support, and that the Commission is now taking advantage of this crisis to propose this expenditure?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u55	Whether the total amount will be needed will have to be seen in the coming years, because it also depends on how long this economic crisis will last. I think it is wise, as I said to Mr Azarkan, that it is a considerable sum, because it gives stability, peace and confidence, also towards the financial markets. However, I was a little surprised by the interruption debate between Mr Van Ojik and Mr Alkaya, because I also think that the SP has been very critical in recent months of large aid packages for companies in the context of corona if those companies were not opposed to tackling top salaries and giving them extra priority to making their business more sustainable. So I think it is very logical that the European Commission should make this link with greening and digitisation, because we all know that in the coming years we will have to do a great deal to prepare European business for the 21st century economy as well. Now massive investment in old economies and companies, all of which we see have no right to exist in the next ten or twenty years, would be a waste of these massive sums. By linking this recovery fund to the priorities of the European Commission, which also fully supports the Netherlands, we are making sure that we come out of this crisis investing and doing so in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u56	Last question, Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u57	This is really an important point, because here comes the main difference. I do see a difference between what Member States can do and what they can propose about greening, digitization and so on, things that we often agree on, at least on that side of the Chamber of Commerce and what the European Union could do. I can see a Commission that is making a proposal at a time when it thinks it can, now there is a corona crisis, so now we are going to propose that we also want more with digitisation and climate action. That critical attitude would also help to organize support in society, because now this creates mistrust. Mr Jetten was just talking about a major leap forward in European integration, which we would now be heading towards. My question to the cabinet is whether it shares that. But how does Mr Jetten feel about that? Does he not feel uncomfortable when we are talking about a major leap forward in European integration, when people are losing their jobs, filling hospitals and we are dealing with a virus?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u58	We are doing exactly that leap forward to prevent people from losing their jobs in the coming years. That's very wise. Mr Alkaya is right to say that we need to look at what we should organise at European level and what we do at national level. It is precisely for climate and digitalisation that it is important that we in Europe agree on the rules of the game, such as a CO border tax at the border of our continent, so that Chinese producers will also pay for the pollution they cause. That is something that can only be organised at European level. At the same time, we can also use greening as a priority in the recovery fund, partly European funding what we have devised in the Netherlands. Think of the national climate agreement we have concluded. It is, of course, fantastic if we can use part of the European Recovery Fund to pay for greening in the Netherlands. So it's always: what should you organise European with each other and what can you then do nationally in the elaboration?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u59	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u60	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister indicated at his Friday press conference that his goal was to achieve two fundamental points in the negotiations. His main commitment: to maintain the discount on the Dutch contribution and to enforce economic reforms in Member States wishing to make use of the recovery fund. Nothing about loans or subsidies. I conclude from this that the Prime Minister abandons his opposition to subsidies. I'd like a response. On Friday Michel presented a compromise proposal. The large recovery fund with loans and grants remains, reforms are a condition, 30% of the recovery fund must be spent on climate goals, there will be a whole zipper of new own European funds or European taxes, so that the Netherlands can retain the discount, and finally, the key of money, which we discussed extensively in the previous debate, will be improved. It doesn't look bad, but the Prime Minister's not satisfied. He keeps talking about those reforms. But the crazy thing is that everyone already agrees on that: D66, Merkel and Macron, Italy. So why this smokescreen? Why continue to squander political capital on this point, if everyone already agrees that reforms should be a precondition for these loans and subsidies? Let us not forget the lessons of the previous crisis here. The way in which the troika imposed reforms on the Greeks during the euro crisis was counterproductive is demonstrated by independent research. Now there is a risk of a repetition of these moves, because the Dutch cabinet is hinting at a veto on the reform plans of other Member States. But what democratic logic is behind this? According to the Prime Minister, are Dutch officials above representatives of the people of the Member States concerned? And would it not be better for national parliaments of those Member States to have a role in determining these reforms? And as the European People's Party of the CDA proposed, also a role for the European Parliament? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Charles Michel has made an excellent compromise. My party can support that, but is critical on two points. First of all, the reform of the European budget. There is a major battle in the field of greening and digitisation, but our cabinet is also in danger of losing sight of this. You don't hear the Prime Minister about it and in the appreciation the Dutch payment is on one. For years, D66 has been pointing to the danger that any reduction in the budget will reduce the Dutch priorities. That is what is happening in this proposal. Agricultural and cohesion funds remain large, and the 25 billion negotiated off by the dirty four are being cut back on knowledge, small and medium-sized enterprises and European border surveillance, with the result that the dreams of hyperloops, hydrogen factories, curbing migration problems and a European Apple of Google will never come true. Now that the Netherlands seems to retain the discount, the full commitment must therefore be directed towards a modern budget. I expect the Prime Minister to be one of his demands in the coming days. Secondly, I refer to the rule of law. That must be a core part of the European budget. The EU now needs an instrument to prevent money from going to countries whose rule of law is not in order. Unfortunately, Michel's compromise proposal has watered down those rules again. With this proposal, the Visegrád countries can jointly block the withdrawal of subsidies. Then it's not gonna work. We must therefore, as Mr Van Ojik said, return to the system of reverse qualified majority, because only then will this become an instrument with teeth. Can the Prime Minister guarantee that he will continue to work in the coming days to establish a strong link between European resources and the rule of law in the Member States? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u61	Thank you. Mr Wilders has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u62	Here's what I was wondering. There is already a support fund. That includes EUR 540 billion, and I believe almost EUR 250 billion from the ESM. Countries can make use of this, but no one has yet used it, no country. Does Mr Jetten have any explanation for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u63	I am thinking partly of what we were talking about a moment ago: because the ESM is not necessarily the best route to make an investment in this crisis. I believe that Member States in the south of Europe too are very well aware that they will depend to a large extent on how we can harness this European recovery fund together. I think they also understand that they have to face reforms in their own country, but that they fear that using the current arrangements can also send a signal to the financial markets that they are not sufficiently strong. By coming up with this European recovery fund and an ambitious European budget, those countries too are going to be more likely to emerge from this crisis than when they have to resort to the monetary instruments we have already rigged up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u64	So Mr Jetten says that those countries that receive the money are keen to reform. What kind of world do you live in?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u65	No, I don't like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u66	What kind of world do you live in? These countries do not want to reform at all. They're just stressful to Mr. Rutte because they want it without conditions. They don't want those reforms at all. They think they're bothersome and troublesome. The reason they do not use the ESM funds, which are 540 billion from the support fund, is that that is not a gift. But they know that gifts are coming. They know there's 500 billion coming according to current plans. Because, as you know, it is 250 billion in loans and 500 billion in grants. So why would you need to borrow money from the ESM if you can get it as a gift? That is the real reason. If I may, Madam President, I have a second question for Mr Jetten. What do you think about the fact that the President of the Italian bank, as I have just pointed out in my speech, said that Italy misses EUR 100 billion a year because they themselves do not levy enough taxes and that taxes are being evaded? As I said, that means that if they just normally pay their taxes, like you and I and all the Dutch should have done, then the whole recovery fund will have gathered for itself in seven years. Then we can give our money to our own people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u67	First of all, on that last point. Of course, it is wise for a country like Italy to improve tax collection. I would also like to point out to Mr Wilders that in recent years the Netherlands itself has also missed tens of billions of euros in taxpayers' money because companies in this country are too easily able to avoid tax. The failure to collect enough tax is not only an Italian problem; it is also a problem that we have to tackle here in the Netherlands. Then there is Mr Wilders' first question. There is also an undertones in that as if southern European countries always refuse and will never reform. Look at countries like Greece, Portugal and Spain. There is not everything in order, but after the previous economic crisis, under heavy pressure and because they could use European aid, they have put in place reforms. They have been very profound in Greece, among others. They have asked for a great sacrifice from the Greek citizen, but they have continued to do so. That is why, in my view, the European recovery fund, which is now before us, is ultimately more sensible than putting even more debt on top of the debt mountain of a number of European countries. We must agree on loans and subsidies, but we must do so with conditions for the way in which these countries are reformed, greening and digitised, in order to strengthen the European market and thereby maintain the earning capacity of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u68	Now it's gonna break my nugget. Now Mr Jetten is going to give an example of the Greeks. We're still waiting to get the money back from the Greeks. Then I am not even talking about the interest we would get; we would get the money back with interest. We haven't seen a penny of them since all these years. I believe there has only been a bilateral first tranche, but for the rest we have not seen anything of them. And you're going to call that an example? That's how it's gonna be with the other countries. They want gifts we don't see back at all or they want loans. And you know by now that Greece has taught us that if you give the Italians a loan, they will consider it a gift. We'll never see that money again. You didn't answer the 700 billion either. You say that the Netherlands also received 7 billion once. 700 billion is 100 times more. How can you justify to your voters that we do not reduce VAT here in the Netherlands, that here in the Netherlands healthcare workers are still begging for an extra bonus, that we still have a high own risk in the Netherlands while people are sick? We could all do that differently. We could eliminate that own risk in care for our people. We could reduce our VAT, as neighbouring countries do. This is good for entrepreneurs and good for purchasing power. We could do anything here, if we wanted to, if we were to spend that money in our own country. And what do you say? No, give that to Italy. Give it to Greece. Give it to Poland. Even give it to France. There's 39 billion going to France. You've gone crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u69	In this response, I do not hear any more from Mr Wilders about the fact that Southern European countries have indeed reformed after the previous crisis and the conditions that we have laid down. It is precisely this European recovery fund that Mr Wilders and I have often exchanged in previous debates that has been in the interests of Dutch companies and Dutch jobs. Take today's emergency call from Dutch universities as an example. The last proposal cuts 5 billion on the EU Horizon programme. That is 5 billion invested in knowledge and innovation in Europe. This results in 3.6 billion economic growth in the Netherlands. Investing in the European budget and in other European Member States, therefore, in the Netherlands, too, is simply a source of hard work and jobs. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u70	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I call Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During this debate, I am replacing my colleague Mr Van Raan, who has been prevented because of family conditions. Mr. Chairman. At the end of May, the European Commission presented a new proposal for the EU budget and the recovery plan of EUR 750 billion. Member States guarantee this plan, even if they are not really capable of doing so. The Animal Party has serious objections to the European Commission's proposal. I'll give you five. One: the budget law of our Parliament is under severe pressure. Two: the collective guarantee for debt is sold as solidarity, but is unprecedented recklessness. Three: an increase in the EU budget is even more a transfer of power to Brussels. Four: it is an adaptation to European taxes and thus less autonomy for the Member States. And five: there is a complete lack of transparent decision-making, especially in the European Council. Mr. Chairman. There's gotta be another way, and there's gotta be another way. Part of the recovery can be financed by bringing forward and reprioritising expenditure within the Multiannual Financial Framework. In this my group supports the government. We call on the Prime Minister to hold on to that line. Because it's not a done deal, it should be clear. I would like to know from the Prime Minister what the diplomatic bombardment against him in recent weeks has caused. For it seems that the Prime Minister is ready to do something about the way in which the aid packages are financed and how they are spent, whether as subsidies or as loans. A goat path or a mouse hole to stay in the prime minister's terminology. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet itself claims to be in favour of a transparent solution. In the context of this transparency, it is good to realise that, in between, we are also adding 15 billion to the common agricultural policy. The Animal Party believes that there should be no more but less money for that common agricultural policy. This agricultural policy covers more than a third of the budget. Hundreds of billions of grants for further global warming and animal suffering. Does the government mean by reprioritisation within the MFF that we are the first to use the resources of the common agricultural policy for this purpose? So no more subsidies for the bio-industry, but radical reforms? Mr. Chairman. I was in Ghent last weekend and there I saw a poster: "Retour à la normal est retour à la crise climatique." In Dutch: "Back to normal is back to the climate crisis." We have to do everything we can to limit the rise in temperature to 1.5 °C. There's no alternative. Therefore, the urgent call to use the corona emergency funds to avert the climate and biodiversity disaster. In it, the Party is not alone for the Animals. The International Energy Agency and the International Monetary Fund have also recently called for large-scale corona emergency aid to be used for fundamental investments in renewable energy. This will create more jobs in the energy sector than Corona has lost. Is the government prepared to include the recommendations of the IEA and the IMF in the European Council? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The economical four have proposed a temporary fund for economic recovery with loans to Member States, but that proposal is far from complete. There is no size of the fund and it is also not entirely clear what loan for loans means. It also says "we need to restore and deepen the single market." We would like an explanation on these matters. Who are we gonna blame, literally, if that big handout isn't gonna bring us what we've been promised? Then, finally. We must use the crisis as a turning point. We're gonna have to get rid of the people's center and the money center. How are we going to prevent the next pandemic? How can we stop being paralyzed for the global economy, for ourselves and for our relationships? Mr President, the Animal Party cannot and will not take responsibility for this plan of the European Commission, not because we would not show solidarity, but because we do show solidarity. Good advice may be expensive, but with hundreds of billions at the moment, we're just playing panic football. It's an uncovered check that casts its shadow on an uncertain future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u72	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. Mr Bruins has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u73	Mr. Chairman. Be united, but with a well-understood self-interest. Just one of the tasks that we have recently given the Prime Minister towards Europe. On the way to a meeting of the Eurogroup, Minister Hoekstra recently gave a text from the Matthew Gospel: "Be sharp as a snake but sincere as a pigeon." The mission remains the same today, with the following points of interest. First of all... There's a lot of talk about loans and subsidies. Why would you do something as a gift? Well, with the high public debt in southern countries, you might wonder if it is so merciful to raise more loans for these countries. I think clauseing is more important than the exact form. For example, loans could be converted into grants over time, subject to serious and lasting reforms. Whether certain objectives could lead to more financially advantageous conditions. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that clauseing is a priority, more than the form? And will he stand up for unambiguous, measurable and checkable conditions? Mr. Chairman. Member States in need should strengthen their economic foundations by, for example, reducing debt, reforming pension systems and improving their administrative capacity. Only if countries which are now in danger of having to fall through them are this recovery package firmly put on their feet, will there be support for support. The fact that the commitment is very different between the Member States makes this a difficult issue. We can see that Italy is of good will in this area, but Greece has clearly indicated that it does not really want to do so. How is commitment of Member States guaranteed in the area of reforms to be implemented? History is uncomfortable at this point. The link between the new MFF and the state of law is a tough condition for the Christian Union. There is support for this in the Council, as we read, but there are also countries that do not like it at all. I believe that Germany has a key role to play here, especially as President for the next six months. While the European Christian Democrats are strongly in favour of this point, Merkel is more reluctant. Legal status is also crucial for the proper use of the Structural Funds. This is also pointed out by the Chief Prosecutor of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. What can the Prime Minister do to ensure that a clear link with the rule of law actually reaches the end of the MFF? Mr. Chairman. The financing of the recovery plan should be a one-off construction. It must not be a step towards a permanent transfer union. This type of far-reaching joint-money decision must always be decided unanimously. It is right that the Council's legal service should point out the importance of the safeguards with which the instrument is declared. These safeguards are of great importance and should prevent the proposed construction from becoming a permanent mechanism, or even paradigm change in the EU budget processes. It concerns not only the amount of money involved in the recovery plan or the MFF, but also its control. Are there sufficient safeguards in the current proposals to ensure that the proposed construction does not become a permanent mechanism? Let us once again beware of the further transfer of sovereignty from our financial system, even when it comes to introducing new forms of European taxes. Our starting point remains that taxation is primarily a national matter for a national Member State. Mr. Chairman. The investments from the recovery plan. The Christian Union sees investing in innovation as an opportunity to emerge stronger from the crisis. The announcement by the President of the European Council that he wants to cut innovation against the previous Commission proposal is going exactly the wrong way. The Christian Union would rather expect cuts in, for example, the old cohesion policy and not in what should be pulled out of the crisis valley in the future. There is also a need for caution in further investment in tourism, as this sector has largely fallen silent. Tourism will get back on track at some point, but European investment in tourism will not help to get out of any future crisis like this. What priorities does the Prime Minister set when it comes to investment from the recovery plan? The Netherlands has undertaken to assist the Greeks in the reception of underage single asylum seekers on the mainland. I ask the Prime Minister whether we can expect the first children to be transferred to the mainland by September and included in the programme supported by the Netherlands. Finally, Mr President. I can't end up without mentioning our fishermen. The fisheries sector has taken its responsibility by compensating cutters who are stalling because of COOVID-19. That money came out of the pot for the Brexit and research projects. In 2021, the new European Maritime, Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund will be launched. The new fund also includes 750 million for fisheries. Part of this consists of aid and part loans, some of which are for the Netherlands. Before the Netherlands gets this money, it is 2022. Will the Prime Minister make an effort at the European summit to make this money available to our fishermen sooner? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u74	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u75	Mr. Chairman. Like many others, I am replacing someone today, Mr Bishop. He's on his 41st honeymoon. That's what he's been given. Mr. Chairman. During negotiations, sometimes you have to give and sometimes you have to take. The Prime Minister knows that like no other. But let it be clear that there are limits to giving. The previous proposals from Europe on the MFF and the recovery fund had little sympathy from our cabinet. Last week, Mr Michel presented a new proposal. Given the proportions, you'd think he might have added some water to the wine. But nothing could be further from the truth. It is mainly the Commission's old plans that have been pushed through. We can keep the discount. Keep it, Mr. Chairman. So we already had that discount. Some posts are being pushed back and forth and some percentages are being changed. Maybe we'll get some pocket money from some kind of Brexit pot. My first question to the Prime Minister is whether he can tell me what that Brexitpot or Brexit reserve looks like. Mr. Chairman. To go a little bit more towards the big picture: I see virtually no approach to the Netherlands in the proposal that is now before us. Hence my next questions. What has the European Commission done, according to the Prime Minister, with the Dutch criticism? How, according to the Prime Minister, did the Commission or did it not meet the Netherlands at the moment? Mr. Chairman. According to many, there is a great hurry to reach an agreement quickly. And that, while the ESM is still overcrowded and also the southern countries can simply issue government bonds at low interest rates. That is why the following three questions. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that there is no rush at all, certainly not with regard to the recovery fund? Does the Prime Minister agree with me that the discussions on the MFF and the recovery fund should be conducted separately? And if so, is the Prime Minister prepared to raise this at the forthcoming summit? Mr. Chairman. A large part of the recovery fund should go to the so-called recovery and resilience facility. No less than 560 billion will end up in that pot. Can the Prime Minister state what conditionality looks like? If he can tell you that, does he think it's sufficiently secure? Does the Prime Minister also believe that a unanimous decision should be taken on what this money is spent on, and in particular what the related reforms should look like? Mr. Chairman. The Commission also wants to obtain its own resources. So European taxes. The SGP's position on this was clear and clear: European taxes must never be introduced. My question is whether that is also the position of the cabinet. If it is up to the Commission, a plastic tax will be introduced next year and then a digitaks in 2023. In the meantime, other forms of taxation are introduced between 2021 and 2027, according to the Commission. My question to the Prime Minister is how he will prevent these European taxes from being introduced and whether he can promise that this cabinet will under no circumstances agree with those European taxes. Mr. Chairman. The recovery fund comes next to the regular budget, to cope with the consequences of corona. There is therefore no reason to increase the regular budget. Nevertheless, according to the first calculations, the Dutch contribution increases by 600 million a year. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he agrees with me that this goes against the Bishop/Leijten motion adopted in spring 2018. If you don't remember her, I've got her here. I can hand over the full content of that. Does he agree with me that there should be a large part of the budget? Mr President, I am going to conclude. If the recovery fund plans continue, we are going to burden a lot of countries with high debts. This while many southern countries already had unhealthy public finances, including for the corona crisis. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that much more needs to be done by Member States to solve the underlying fundamental problems? How, according to the Prime Minister, is this recovery fund going to ensure that, in a future crisis, all Member States, like the Netherlands, are able to make their own financial commitments, without the need for substantial flows of money from north to south? Does the Prime Minister agree with me that structural reforms of economies and public finances should be pursued? And above all, how does the Prime Minister see it? I'd like a response to all my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u76	It is a recognizable basic story of the SGP, particularly in terms of European taxes. But if, for example, the introduction of a plastic tax or digitaks would bring net benefits to the Netherlands, does Mr Stoffer maintain his principled reverend's view that there should be no European taxes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u77	For Reverend I have not yet been put in the cradle; I don't know what else to expect. But let me be very clear: it is a point of principle for us. The Netherlands must remain its own state, with its own taxes. If we do something with each other in Europe, it is on our own responsibility. So anyway, even if it suits us and so on, then you go up that slope and where does that end? So as far as I'm concerned, even if in the short term you might have a little advantage from these taxes being posted now... Wonderful. If you could see those things apart from all the others, maybe it's kind of nice and maybe it's a good time. But no, I'll stay in principle, because I see what's coming after it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u78	It is always good to see that principles can cost money at the SGP. Then there's another question. Certainly in the area of plastic tax, the objective is, of course, that it also contributes to the climate. That's not so important for the SGP in that sense, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u79	Oh, yes, I do. I always say that taxes are a necessary evil. Preferably you wouldn't pay taxes at all to anyone, but you need them to do some things together. I think this should be done within the Dutch state. I think it is very good that we are doing something about the climate, especially if we are going to prevent the plastic soup and everything; beautiful. But if it is necessary to do something for the climate, there should be no tax on it, but you just have to raise children and make sure they don't want that plastic at all. As far as I am concerned, that is a question of raising and not taxing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u80	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.)
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u81	Mr. Chairman. The debate on the European Recovery Fund, or indeed on Europe, is often hijacked by the flanks, with a lot of emotion. We have a group that sees in every proposal a malicious idea of deviously generating power for Europe, which advocates getting the hell out of the European Union as soon as possible, based on the fairy tale that we can do it on our own. On the other hand, there is the group for which European integration does not go far enough and which takes every opportunity to transfer more powers and power to the European Commission. But sometimes it is just wise to look from the middle at what the problem is and what solution works best together, especially during a crisis. Keep your head cool and use the mind. The corona crisis has hit the economy hard in many European countries and will do so this year and also in the coming years. The task we have is to ensure that we develop coordinated and sensible plans that can save Europe from further damage. The European countries are quite in agreement on this principle. About how we do that, under what conditions, who carries what burdens and who draws the wallet, is a big disagreement. Mr. Chairman. Actually, it comes down to the question of what we think of the definition of "solidarity." Does solidarity mean a radical change of course with the European Commission? It would be the first time that the Commission itself is going to raise a very large amount on the capital market. These EUR 750 billion would then be transferred by the Commission to South and Eastern European countries in particular. 500 billion of that is a gift, money that never comes back. So the transfer union and the superstate Europe are coming, although it has been denied for a long time. But why would you transfer that money? There must be very good reasons for that. That is not the view of the group of DENK at the moment, because the need is lacking. There are other existing funds. Previous speakers have already mentioned this. We have a 540 billion package, the ESM, the SURE for companies and the EIB. The 3% rule was put aside months ago and we never really maintained the 60% rule we had. In fact, this means that countries can borrow as much and spend as much as they deem necessary for their economy. The second point is that it is unbelievable that the EU is now suddenly borrowing huge amounts of money itself. The European Commission does not have that competence. So that leads to a debt union. For us, this lacks democratic legitimacy, because the European Commission itself was not elected by the electorate. The third point is that scattering with large amounts of money can be counterproductive. This will delay the necessary reforms, such as the fight against corruption, but also tax evasion. But also tackling opaque licensing systems that provoke friendliness cannot be properly addressed in this way. In April, the cabinet went firmly into it. According to this cabinet, Eurobonds or coronabonds were not at issue at all. The EU would then incur joint debts. That would be too much like the transfer union in which Northern Europe is to pay structurally for southern Europe. That was absolutely impossible, the cabinet found in April. But now there is a proposal that goes far beyond the Eurobonds, namely a direct transfer from Northern to Southern Europe. On 9 April, an agreement had already been reached at European level on financial aid, i.e. 540 billion. This raises big questions, as recalled before. What happened to that money? Have these funds already been fully used up? Does the cabinet share the view that there is little point in setting up a new fund while the previous fund is not even being used yet? I'd like a response. And is such a EUR 500 billion transfer in accordance with the European Treaty? Is it true that the cabinet can veto this? Mr. Chairman. The added value of a new large recovery fund is doubtful. When I read the letters like that, it seems like a new subsidy bureaucracy is being rigged. Everything must be approved by European officials from the Brussels drawing tables. But where is the solution? The real solution lies in the decisive action of the ECB, the PEPP package of EUR 1,350 billion and the TLTRO loan of EUR 1,300 billion: many times more effective than Eurobonds, Coronabonds, Corona Fund, ESM, ECCL, EIB and everything they come up with in Brussels, where they really love complicated abbreviations. The ECB can act much faster than the European Commission or the Member States and does not suffer from slow-moving bureaucratic mills. In addition, the ECB money is, at the end of the day, the chairman of the ECB monetary money. It is new money, while those other initiatives are about existing budgetary money that needs to be recovered later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u82	Thank you. Mr Van Otterloo has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The endgame for the European multi-annual budget has been deployed. It's about staggering amounts. In addition to the EUR 1100 billion needed for the Multiannual Financial Framework over the next seven years, the European Commission also wants to create a recovery instrument of EUR 750 billion. As I said, staggering amounts, especially if you add the ECB's liquidity support, whatever it takes. We have seen over the last few days that Charles Michel, the President of the European Council, has made a new proposal which meets the wishes of the Netherlands and the other members of the economical four. The EU budget will then fall slightly to 1,074 and net contributors Netherlands, Austria, Germany, Denmark and Sweden will keep their discounts. Although it is gratifying that the Netherlands should be allowed to retain the discounts, these are not major concessions at all. It's scattering, as the NRC called it. The EU's next generation recovery instrument of 750 billion is not being addressed, nor the 500 billion in grants and 250 billion in loans. Why not the other way around? Is it really necessary to give away that much money? Perhaps even more important than the distribution is the question of how to reduce the burden on ordinary taxpayers of this deal. We are in an unprecedented crisis. It also requires unprecedented efforts in the coming years to recover. We agree on that. Unfortunately, however, we do not agree on the question of who will be presented which part of the account and in what form. It is an argument that is difficult to sell to ever larger parts of the 50PLUS population. For many years, older people and pensioners have experienced the shadows of the policies imposed by Europe by this and previous Cabinets. Over the past few years, older people have been forced to make the bulk of the cuts needed to reduce the budget deficit and public debt. In addition, it is not only, but to a large extent, thanks to the ECB's policy that interest rates in Europe have become so absurdly low. By the way, part of the Netherlands has benefited greatly from this. People with mortgages, entrepreneurs and banks have benefited from this. Therefore, Klaas Knot was also entitled to declare that the Netherlands, in particular, more than Italy, has benefited from the ECB's policy. But why, then, has there been so much resistance to Europe among the 50PLUS supporters? This is because the own government has laid the burden on the elderly rather than sharing the benefits fairly. Due to the self-chosen system of your arm calculating with an under-calculation rate, pensions cannot be indexed for 12 years now. That is why the age of AOW had to rise irresponsibly quickly and there had to be substantial cuts in care for the elderly. Later today, we'll meet here on the pension deal. If the calculation rate had not been used in 2008 but the forecasted return as a measure, pensions would now have been much higher. The Dutch arithmetic rate is the lowest in Europe. Here in the Netherlands, ministers moved behind Europe and the 3% budget deficit standard to implement their own agenda. Not Europe or the ECB, but its own government is primarily responsible for the enormous problems of our pension funds. For 50PLUS, it is very important that both the effects of the crisis and the ordinary financing of the EU are borne in the most equitable way possible between countries and between generations. That is why we are not so hard on just loans, because if the Dutch recipe for austerity in Europe is brought to a standard, it will affect the elderly and the weak in the labour market. Last month's technical briefing showed that it is still unclear where the money went exactly. It was like: money seeks a purpose, not a party but a purpose. Of course you can't. You need to know what it's meant for. You need to know what goals you want to achieve in what way. How does the Prime Minister ensure that the EU does this effectively and transparently? How is the EU going to achieve economic goals with this money? What makes the cabinet here say more than no and insist on austerity in other countries? The same applies to own income or income. taxes in Europe. We want to maintain our own sovereignty in the field of taxation, but a CO tax for imports from outside the EU or a tax for tech companies, for which individual countries cannot make a fist, is more a practical issue than a fundamental one for us. Can you lower the payment for this? We would like to hear from the Prime Minister what can be promised on this point. We hope that European leaders will come out next Friday, but not at any price. If the Netherlands is to contribute more than its fair share to the EU's funding and to the recovery instruments, this will further undermine the divering support for the EU in European society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u84	Thank you. Mr Slootweg has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The corona pandemic has hit the European Union very hard. Countries have to count on an economic contraction of sometimes even more than 10%. The Netherlands too has suffered a lot. Many people in the Union will be unemployed. Companies will go bankrupt and people will see their incomes deteriorate. As in the Netherlands, we will also have to tackle the effects of the virus together in the EU. All this creates a heavy responsibility for the Heads of Government and perhaps a special responsibility for the Prime Minister, who was also responsible for the euro crisis. That is why many Heads of Government have been to visit our Prime Minister. A conversation that we are particularly curious about is the conversation with the Italian Prime Minister. In his conversation with Conte, did the Prime Minister ask if Italy would agree to the single-limb CACs? This technical question conceals the fact that countries have to restructure debt and that every creditor would then have to pay with it. This requires the adoption of a law. Italy has not yet adopted this law. The accord of the single-limb CACs creates clarity for creditors. My group's main questions are the MFF, the relationship between the MFF and a possible recovery fund and the recovery fund. In addition, if I still have time, I would like to comment briefly on Brexit. I want to start with the Multiannual Financial Framework, the MFF. The compromise proposal now before us amounts to 1,074 billion. And although this is going in the right direction for my group, it is also, of course, about the content of the 1,074 billion. Therefore, the following questions. The European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development will be increased by 15 billion in the current proposals. The cabinet is critical because its size cannot be traced back to the investment needs arising as a result of the crisis. Moreover, the Netherlands has always advocated modernisation rather than an increase in the European agricultural policy. But what exactly would this adjustment mean for Dutch farmers? The Fund for Neighbourhood, Development and International Cooperation will be increased by 10.5 billion, as stated in the plans. In my group's view, the deepening of the EU-Africa relationship should be an absolute priority, also focusing on the opportunities for the African people in their own country. How does the government see this? Doesn't the government itself find it strange that this fund should be increased, while the funds for Frontex are being reduced? The cabinet sees the importance of flexibility to move between European funds, but wants to keep the scope of this flexibility limited. In my group's view, this is the result that we want to achieve. In this crisis, we have seen that the EU had little capacity to react because resources are frozen. Moreover, we have seen that, on the basis of keys, the money does not sometimes end up in the right place. Would it not be better to focus on control and decision-making rather than on limiting flexibility? Mr. Chairman. Two things in the proposals on the MFF really don't make sense to us. That is, on the one hand, the reduction of the funds for Horizon....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... "The MFK is here to stay," as Von der Leyen put it. The recovery fund is occasional money. My group sees Michel's current proposal as a useful way of reducing meaningful cases from the MFF and putting them under the recovery fund. Horizon is a good example of this. In this way, money for research, which must strengthen the European economy as an economic bloc, is made occasional. Does the Prime Minister agree with the CDA that the reductions in the MFF, as for Horizon and Frontex, are unwise choices? The second way Michel wants to play a trick is by lowering the level of the MFF, but increasing it for cohesion funds. This makes it seem as if less money from the recovery fund for Poland will be compensated through the MFF. Will the Prime Minister make an effort to focus the allocation of resources within the MFF more on structural strengthening elements such as Horizon and Frontex and less on cohesion? Mr. Chairman. We believe that the same financial conditions apply to both the MFF and the recovery fund. But prior to that there are also conditions that must fit within the European Union as a value community. These are conditions relating to the rule of law of the EU Member States. If a country of the Union does meet the basic conditions of our value community, it is a question that we sometimes have to ask ourselves. It seems obvious that only countries that comply with the rule of law, the rule of law, should be eligible for Union funds. How does the rule of law play a role in the possible allocation of funds from the MFF and the Recovery Fund? The cabinet insists that funds should only be granted if there is reverse qualified majority. But what exactly does that mean? Are we sure that the rule of law will be applied? Isn't the state of law a wonderful theme, which could allow the Netherlands to make alliances with southern Member States who always think this is very important? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The reason for the recovery fund is solidarity with countries hard hit by the COOVID-19 crisis. To determine this, we need to look at the damage to health care and the damage to the economy. The damage to an EU Member State caused by corona must be the measuring bar and not the economic differences between the EU countries that already existed for corona. It is therefore incomprehensible to us that a recovery fund which Poland, a country that has hardly been affected by corona, benefits more than Italy. Does the Cabinet share the premise that the health and economic impact of corona should determine the extent of the support from a possible recovery fund? In addition to the recovery fund, the EU has already taken a number of other crisis measures that Member States such as Italy and Spain can use. For example, the ESM, SURE and the resources of the European Investment Bank. I understand that Italy itself raises money on the capital market at an interest rate of 1.2%, while the country could borrow through the ESM at 0.1% interest. Italy does not, however. Is it true that Italy has lost 5 billion extra interest payments by refusing to use the ESM? Can the Prime Minister explain why other instruments are not or hardly used? Could it not be that some Member States do not want to use the other crisis measures, because they are subject to conditions? These are conditions which, in our view, do not exist to bully a country, but which must help a country to become economically stronger. This calls for reforms and good business governance of the recovery fund. Does the Prime Minister agree with the CDA Group that, in the case of a recovery fund, a country should really submit reform measures? Can the Prime Minister outline how he sees the process before him when a country is eligible for money from a recovery fund? How does the Prime Minister view the proposal that the Council's assessment of the reform and investment plans be carried out by a qualified majority? Is it no longer obvious, because of the importance of this issue, that we are asking for unanimity? Mr. Chairman. The current governance proposal differs from the previous version, which focused on the Commission's assessment. None of the proposals provides for a role for the European Parliament. During the previous debate on the June Summit, the CDA made a point of the democratic legitimacy of the recovery fund. How does the cabinet view the democratic legitimacy of the governance of the recovery fund? In addition to being a value community based on the rule of law, the European Union has once been designed as a social market economy: a union based on people and their concerns and not set up for quick profits for anonymous shareholders. An EU that aims to make countries stronger, so that they can nurture and flourish their own industry. Not a club with which you try to steal the company from another Member State. This is what happened to Vredestein. These reprehensible practices ensure that large groups feel abandoned by the European Union. If there is to be a feeling that the European Union is working, it will have to protect workers and the self-employed, rather than pressure on wages and working conditions. How does the motion of my colleague Mr Omtzigt's on Vredestein work? Finally, Mr President. The hard Brexit is coming. Can the Prime Minister state what is going on with European contingency planning? I would ask the cabinet to identify the European funds that the Netherlands can claim to compensate for the consequences of Brexit. Is there, for example, a fund in the new MFF that reduces the economic damage caused by the Brexit and how does the Brexit fund of 5 billion work? Is that based on drawing rights or the economic impact of brexit on a Member State? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u86	A recognizable CDA contribution, and I must say that it is quite different from that of Mr Jetten van D66. I understand that Mr Jetten of D66 wants to open the coalition agreement on the point we are discussing today, namely the contribution to European recovery. How does the CDA view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u87	We see no reason to open the coalition agreement on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u88	A clear answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u89	I'll see if I can do it that fast, Mr. Chairman. Mr Slootweg spoke about the MFF. He said he thinks that there are some wrong choices being made. I have heard him say that Horizon should not be cut back and perhaps not Frontex. What does he think of the size of the package? Would he be prepared to accept this amount for the MFF, if there is any further delay?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u90	Our commitment is, and we have indicated this before, that the MFF is large enough to fit Britain's departure. This means that it still has to be reduced by a number of billions compared to the present 1074. Besides, you can really make choices. These choices are now being put into cohesion funds. I was trying to make it clear in my speech that we think this is unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u91	Thank you. Mr Van Ojik, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u92	If I understand correctly, we need more money to Frontex and more money to Horizon. This could, for example, come from the cohesion funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u93	If you ask, there can be more savings on the cohesion funds than there must be money for Horizon and Frontex.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u94	Okay. As far as the CDA group is concerned, we therefore need to make additional cuts in the cohesion funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u95	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u96	Thank you. Mr Hiddema has the floor on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u97	Mr. Chairman. 750 billion. The EU wants to spend this money to combat the corona crisis in Europe, she says. The South, badly hit by the corona virus, needs our help. The creativity of the European Commission does not leave anything to be desired. Special EU corona subsidies will be provided: 310 billion. EU corona loans: 250 billion. An EU Restoration and Cohesion Fund: 50 billion. An EU Health Programme: 10 billion. Additional humanitarian aid: 10 billion. And an EU nature and landscape policy: 10.5 billion. What that has to do with corona is beyond the simple sense of this simple representative of the people. Not only that: there are other opaque issues that need clarification. Who exactly will be the recipients of this money? The negotiations are now under way, but Poland is reported to receive 36 billion. This, while the land was barely touched by the corona virus. In the Netherlands, almost nine times as many deaths have occurred as in Poland. The Netherlands is also relatively much more affected economically. For example, our economy is expected to shrink by 50% more than the Polish economy. When I heard about this debate, I thought we were going to fight the corona consequences. Nothing could be further from the truth. This is a disguised attempt to further level the economies. The recovery fund key is the national unemployment rate for the years 2015-2019. The rich countries are allowed to pay again for the poor countries. This is not a recovery fund, it is a redistribution fund, it is a transfer union. We've been warning you about that for years. And that, while the Netherlands also suffers from a huge economic blow due to the coronavirus. In particular, due to the measures taken by the cabinet, which were too late and are still far too long, there is a decrease in economic activity of 10% to 15% and a decrease in GDP of 6%. Businesses are going bankrupt and the number of unemployed is rising alarmingly fast. And now that our cabinet is right to ask questions about the EU's plans, they call us currants. When the previous economic crisis also hit the Netherlands, also as a result of the worst euro coin, the Netherlands started to cut back as one of the few countries. As public debt increased in countries such as France, Italy and Spain, where they have now even introduced a basic income, VAT increased in the Netherlands, the AOW age increased, the scholarship was abolished, there has been substantial cuts in care and many other increases in costs. And now they call us currants. While we have been the largest net contributor to the European Union since the 1990s. We'll pay for it there. And now the Netherlands is probably allowed to pay even more. On the basis of the first plans, the Netherlands should invest 30 billion in the new EU redistribution fund. That's $4,000 per household. If it is up to the European Commission, then we can pay for the new basic income for the Spaniards, the holiday money for the Italians and the wind turbines in France. We powerless parliamentarians in the Lower House have nothing to say about these new plans of the European Commission. That power was given away years ago. You will see, the powerless MEPs will not be able to stop this at the end of the day. In fact, the European Parliament, which is full of South and Eastern Europeans who have an interest in it, wants an even bigger budget than the Commission has already proposed. The only man who can stop these plans is our prime minister, Mark Rutte, the hero of this Low Land. In the European Council it can block this proposal from the European Commission. I expect nothing less than the Prime Minister to veto us and save us from this calamity. Can the Prime Minister undertake to do this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u98	Thank you, Mr. Hiddema. Excellent within the agreed speaking time; you can do it. Mrs Kuik has the floor on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u99	Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis is affecting all of us. Economics that suffer heavily and companies that fall down, workers that lose their jobs and families that are severely affected by it. And a health crisis that is followed by an economic crisis and is likely to be the result of a hunger crisis and a migration crisis. Therefore, all the reasons why we, as Europe, should now move forward together and show solidarity in order to combat this crisis. That is in our common interest and in our Dutch interest. Mr. Chairman. I understand that the way you should be looking at it is critical. At the same time, we must avoid creating the image of a Europe that is only bickering about the streets. Iron heinous sticking to its own equal and European Member States digging back into the usual trenches: it looks ugly and ultimately it doesn't bring much closer to a solution either. Mr. Chairman. At first, the Prime Minister was very hard on himself, but in the previous debate and actually in the interview with him at Op1 last Sunday, he made it clear that he did not intend to use his right of veto against the Corona Restoration Fund. My specific question to him is: what exactly is the stake? What are we gonna win and what are we gonna lose? The Prime Minister said, "I don't want gifts." But they'll come eventually. The Prime Minister wanted in exchange for such a package of reforms. I would like to know specifically from the Prime Minister what reforms he is expecting and what he is not expecting. And perhaps more importantly than the debate on a gift or a reform, I find the question whether the money from that emergency fund is being spent in such a way that we all benefit from it. What role will companies play in this? In particular, what role will large companies play in this? Is there any commitment to maintaining employment? We are all in favour of a sustainable transition, but are we going to guarantee this with this package and the questions we are asking? I would also like to know from the Prime Minister whether, due to the unilateral attitude of the Netherlands, the cabinet has taken sufficient account of other issues that also play a role in the MFF, such as the importance of the rule of law, and for matters that are now under discussion, such as the reduction of the migration budget and the OS budget that is now going down? All this will also have negative effects on the long-term effects. It's okay to be critical, but have we kept enough eye on the ball? Especially the rule of law is a bitch in the throat. Governments such as Hungary and the Czech Republic are now given the opportunity to work together and to maintain access to European money. We know what developments are taking place in Poland. What protection and guarantees does the concept of the rule of law still have in the European Union? I know that the Netherlands is committed to this, but have we not given it away in secret in all negotiations? That is really my sincere concern and I would like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. Finally, migration, and I would like to look back. In 2015, the Prime Minister was at the forefront of dealing with migration. Since then, nothing substantial has been addressed in European cooperation on migration. I knew about Commissioner Johansson's draft, but the Secretary of State, the Cabinet, does not know anything yet. They have also been postponed in anticipation of the Corona Restoration Fund. And as I said, in the meantime, migration and the OS budgets are being reduced, which will only fuel the hunger crisis and the migration crisis. A repeat of 2015 is lurking, but the cabinet seems to be standing by and looking at it instead of acting on its own. Even a small gesture like the inclusion of 500 children or a number of children who are single and underage, the cabinet could not get over his heart. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: why does the cabinet not push harder on migration immigration? Why does it allow this reduction to happen, when it is so important that we also have a strong external border and have always been in favour of it? Have we learned enough from 2015, the previous credit crisis, and should we not repeat the same mistakes? I'd like a response. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u100	Thank you. Mr Van Haga has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u101	Mr. Chairman. The Dutch are hard workers. We get up early, we work a long time, and we don't retire for 67 years. Our farmers have made us the second largest agricultural exporter in the world. Our SMEs andzzp'ers work very hard to produce products, provide services and create jobs. The Netherlands therefore has the sixteenth economy of the world. And we should be proud of that. The Dutch are also economical. We work hard, but we save a lot so we can have an apple for thirst. And we should be proud of that. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch are also merciful. If you don't have a job in the Netherlands, you get a benefit. If you can't buy a house, you get a social home. If you need care, you get free care. And we should be proud of that. The Dutch are also involved in Europeans. The Netherlands has been the largest net contributor per capita within the EU for decades. We should also be proud of that, although that is also a question of perspective. But, Chairman, Dutchmen are not crazy. Italy has the eighth economy in the world with a GDP of 2.3 trillion euros. In Italy there is an extremely poor tax morale. Over 20% of the economy is black. And in Italy, hardly anyone has a mortgage on his house. Research conducted by the ECB shows that if you sell the assets and debts, both privately and publicly, the Spanish and Italians have more power per household than the Dutch. Mr. Chairman. Because of the corona measures taken by this cabinet, tens of thousands of companies are going bankrupt in the Netherlands. Tens of thousands of people lose their jobs. This is happening in almost every country in Europe. Is it now reasonable that rich southern European countries, with high public debt created by themselves, should be financially supported by our country through a loan or a gift? I expect only one thing from our Prime Minister in Brussels, and that is a total no. No to a loan, no to a gift, no to an increase in the EU budget and no to European taxes. Try to imagine what Margaret Thatcher had done, and just say it in Dutch, because that seems better: no is no. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u102	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Anne Mulder on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u103	Mr President, thank you. All European countries face the economic consequences of the corona crisis; only one country is more difficult to get out than the other. It is difficult for some countries to maintain public investment. As a result, the recovery of the European economy is at risk of falling behind, at least in a number of countries. That is not in the interests of those countries themselves, and that is not in the interests of the European Union as a whole. We want economically strong countries so that we can form a bloc in the European Union. Nor is it good for the trading country of the Netherlands, which exports a lot of trade to the European Union. The internal market is gold for entrepreneurs in the Netherlands, but if you stand in your booth and your customers are broke, it stays quiet at your stall. So we have to do something, and fortunately a lot has already happened. But everything we do must insist that we do so not only in solidarity, but also wisely. We must help each other in such a way that countries do not have to come back again because there is a financial problem in the future. We have to prevent that. That's wise. In this, the VVD distinguishes itself from those who want to leave the European Union and want a new one, and those who say: here you have the money, without conditions. That's not helping. I have already indicated that, as far as we are concerned, support must go hand in hand with reforms, as this will prevent a further crisis in a number of countries. That is also better for those countries themselves, because they will then emerge stronger from the crisis. That is also the line of the cabinet, a sensible line. Today we are discussing two issues: the budget and the so-called recovery fund. First, the budget. I have said a number of times in this Chamber that it is not an authoritative budget. This budget has not been properly evaluated and the money goes to the priorities of the 1980s: agriculture and cohesion. How can I keep asking the Prime Minister? Why doesn't that want to change? The Netherlands is one of the largest net contributors to this budget. We have a discount now and we can keep it, but what does that mean under the line? Are we going to pay more to the European Union than in the previous period? As far as the VVD is concerned, we don't. I'd like a response. We'd like to hear a way to make sure that doesn't happen. Then there's the recovery fund. In the ideal world, this recovery fund would never have been necessary, but countries themselves had their economies in order. The question is: how can it be that the Netherlands is in order, but not other countries? How is it possible that Italy should call for aid? That question may be put on the table and it must also be put on the table, because solidarity also means keeping to your commitments. If there is a Stability and Growth Pact, countries must abide by it. That's important. Deal's a deal. That's solidarity, too. As far as the VVD is concerned, the recovery fund must therefore be temporary and limited by a hard and automatic deadline, with an expiry date and without any possibility of renewal. It should not be about gifts, but about loans with conditions. We do not want Eurobonds either. That is not in the proposals and we should not do so. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the reforms. I think that's gonna be the jumping point. How are we going to enforce these reforms? I have some questions to make that a little sharper. What reforms are we going to ask of countries, I ask the Prime Minister. Are reform plans linked to milestones and progress? Will the money come back if a country doesn't make any progress? And who will review the reform plans and progress? Is recovery possible if countries have not complied with the reforms, even if, for example, there have been elections in a country? The VVD wishes to emphasise a number of aspects of the reforms, namely objectivity, unanimity, conditionality, size, rule of law and honesty. Let's start with objectivity. Who's gonna supervise the reforms? We have said in the past that Mr Bruins has had bad experiences with the European Commission. President Juncker said: France is France. He said that in 2010. Then that country got away without reform. This means that we must leave it not only to the Commission, but also to the Member State. What role do the Member States have in making judgements and making decisions on whether countries are sufficiently reformed? That's an important question. The same applies to unanimity. The past has shown that countries are not complying with the agreements and that they are getting away with it. Then unanimity could be a protection to ensure that countries comply with it. Look at page 8 of the cabinet position. There is a cryptic phrase: "The cabinet wants a strong governance structure in which Member States can give a decisive opinion on the granting of recovery aid." What exactly does the Cabinet mean by that? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Then there's conditionality. Italy has been mentioned here a few times. That country has benefited from the low interest rates in the euro area. The country has not sufficiently reformed. It has a black economy as big as Portugal. And the people of Italy, I was there myself at the time, voted by a majority for parties who do not want to reform. A country like that holds its hand up. It says: we are Europe's fourth economy, we are a founding father, and we really want money. When you go through the question, as was the case with an Italian minister last week, people say that we are too big to fail. In short, I wouldn't let myself be blackmailed too much by a country that wants to live in the best of all worlds. So we want tough conditions as part of any kind of support. It has to be fair, too. The aid must go to countries most economically affected by the corona crisis. We have seen a division where Poland received a lot of money. That country has been affected by the corona crisis, but not economically to the same extent as other countries. So can the Prime Minister indicate which countries have been hit hardest by the corona crisis, economically rather than which countries, according to the President-in-Office of the Council, receive money, and whether the Prime Minister thinks that is a fair and fair distribution of money or not? Then the size. As far as the VVD is concerned, the fund is as limited as possible and the European Commission should not try to add all kinds of wishes to it. The cabinet has previously written that a need assessment, an analysis of what is really needed, is missing. If this analysis is there now, my question is. And shouldn't we be careful spending the money? Maybe the crisis will get worse and there will also be a banking crisis. Then maybe the wallet can be drawn again. So we have to be careful when spending the money and determine what the real problem is. Madam President. Last time I talked about the Central Planning Office. Can the Central Planning Office look at the economic models of the European Commission, the Quest model? The Prime Minister then admitted that he would check with the Central Planning Bureau whether they could test that model on the analysis, assumptions and results. What is the answer to that question, to that commitment? Then there's the rule of law. A number of colleagues have mentioned Poland. I talked about it last time. A third of Poland consists of homo-free zones. President Duda said in the election campaign last time: "Ihbti ideology is worse than communism." He was elected last weekend. Dutch judges do not extradite suspects to Poland. That's not good for our safety. So we have to do something about that. There must be conditions. We are now seeing these conditions, but the question is whether they can be sufficiently enforced. Because if Poland tries to stop it with a few allies, I call it Hungary, but also Malta, then you have not achieved anything. So is this decision-making such that we can also nail the Poles to the ground when it comes to the rule of law? I will conclude, Madam President. In recent weeks, many things have been said about the Netherlands. Big words have been spoken. We'd be filthy. We would hinder economic recovery and risk the future of the Union. I sometimes say sarcastically that China is about to invade the European Union if we do not support it. Let us not be concerned at all about this, because we have something to defend in Europe. We have reformed. We've kept our end of the bargain. We have been a net contributor to the European Union for years. Prime Minister, don't let yourself be fooled that you're crazy or put on too big pants. It is the Dutch taxpayer's money. Finally. The VVD is also realistic with regard to Europe. We know there's an agreement to be made. But let us not forget too easily the real concerns that are taking place in the Netherlands. So as far as the VVD is concerned, the Prime Minister is going to negotiate hard, smart and tough in Europe and is also seeking the allies to achieve a good result. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u104	Thank you. That also brings us to the end of the first term of office. Let me take a look at the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u105	Can we have a lunch break now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u106	Yeah, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u107	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u108	Mr President, thank you. A lot of questions have been asked. A single introductory word. We have also recently discussed the State of the Union here in the presence of Members of the European Parliament. May I recall and add that, of course, we must consider this discussion not only in the context of the profound effects of the corona crisis, both on health and on the economy and, consequently, on societies, but also, of course, of the geopolitical instability and developments between America and China and the role Russia plays in the world. I spoke at that time, and I still feel this way about the risk that Europe is not a player but a playing field. Against this background, too, we need to look at the discussion we are having today. Within Europe, there has long been an imbalance between countries that I may have included, especially on the major issues such as pensions and the labour market, and countries that have done so less. The dividing line between countries asking for aid and countries paying for aid is roughly along the lines of countries that have or have not sufficiently reformed. We have to take that into account. If you look at what you are prepared to do, I think it is logical for countries, including the Netherlands, to say that in such a major crisis they are in solidarity with countries that are struggling, but also to ask why these countries are having more problems than we are. We're having a hard time, too. We have a contraction in the economy of 6%, 7% or 8%. There are predictions that it will take two years for us to recover. At the same time, we are now moving from a budget surplus of 2 billion to a budget deficit of 68 billion in my mind. We can suffer because we have that apple for thirst. Well, apple by now. "The whole Betuwe," said Jeroen Pauw last Sunday in a TV show I was with. We're burning up the whole Betuwe to bring that 68 billion apple together. Other countries have less of these options. I therefore believe that we should show solidarity with countries that are struggling. But solidarity is also to ensure that these countries take measures in return for that support to be able to do it themselves next time. I understand that this sometimes leads to friction between others and me or some of the countries we belong to. But that's not so bad. In the European Union, this can be done occasionally. It is not the case that the Netherlands is then immediately a diplomatic problem. I really don't believe that. People understand very well that these are big interests, large sums of money and tax money, imbalances that have been embedded in the euro area for a long time and wider in the European Union. Addressing them must be part of this debate. If you do not do so, you will not be sufficiently committed to the long-term interests, not only of us but also of those countries, of the Union as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u109	Were you finished with your brief introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u110	Yes, that was a brief introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u111	Interesting words. The Prime Minister talks about solidarity and geopolitics, the relations between China, the United States and Europe. But in the end, of course, it's just about the pecunia, about the money. Prime Minister, perhaps you could look over here for one second. Have you seen Mr Michel's presentation? It is his own, the President of the European Council, where you are going. He has proudly added 540 billion from the fund and 750 billion from the budget under the motto'recovery plan for Europe'. He said that is the recovery plan for Europe, 2,500 billion. My position is that you are going to veto this whole recovery plan on Friday, for the simple reason that it is not urgent. There's already resources. I mentioned it: the 540 billion fund, including the 240 billion from the ESM. There's no use for that. In other words, there is no urgency. Mr. Prime Minister, we stand at 6% at the bar for these loans and gifts, and that money, put together €17,000 per Dutch household, we can spend here. We can lower VAT here instead of the Italians doing it with the money. We can make sure that care workers get a big bonus here, even more than we planned, instead of letting the French finance that from those gifts. We must spend that money here, in our own country, on our own people. There's no need. They already have enough opportunities to borrow money. They don't. My question to you is very specific: are you prepared to veto the whole recovery package next Friday?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u112	You can't say yes or no to that question. It is not the case that we meet on Friday and then everyone is asked who vetoes. That's not how it works. There is a proposal from the Commission. There are now many adjustments to this proposal in the final documents of the President-in-Office of the European Council. I am in conversation these days myself, but all my colleagues are also in intensive conversation, because we are far from there. It is technically impossible to veto. I wouldn't know what I would have to veto. We have views about that element in the picture that you just stopped. That's the MFF, the multi-year budget. All kinds of things have to be changed in there. We also have views about the design of such a recovery fund, in terms of size, donations versus loans, conditions etc. It is only at the end of the journey that you can say whether sufficient account has been taken of the issues that we consider important. This will also apply to other countries. But you don't get in and there's a proposal on the table that you can say no to. I know that Mr Wilders is keen to table a motion of censure because I have to say to him that I am not going to veto it, but I cannot technically do that, because there is nothing I can veto yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u113	That motion is coming anyway; don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u114	Yeah, I guessed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u115	But the answer to that question is irrelevant, because that motion will come anyway. You have already said on television and in the Chamber that you are in favour of a recovery fund. You are in favour of a recovery fund and you are still concerned about the extent to which conditions are imposed and whether they are grants or loans, but you are in favour of a recovery fund and I am not. If you support the recovery fund, you will lose our trust. My question to you is not whether you expect a motion of censure from the PVV. My question to you is this. If there is a recovery fund of EUR 750 billion, or something in that neighborhood, including gifts and loans, are you prepared to say that the Netherlands is not going to spend the money on that? The Netherlands stands for 6%. I've already converted it, that's €17,000 per Dutch family. Are you going to say we're not going to spend the money on it, because that's unnecessary? There are already funds that can be used, which they do not. So it is not urgent, so we are going to spend that money in the Netherlands, where we have our own crisis and where we have our own companies that are going bankrupt and that can use the aid well; we are going to spend the money on it. Is that what you're gonna say? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u116	It's really more complicated than that. This is too much simplified. You can't say yes or no to this. There is a proposal for a multiannual budget, on which we have all kinds of views. I do not think Mr Wilders wants me to veto the multiannual budget. I assume so, because then the Union will no longer have a budget. That budget is important. Yes, Mr. Wilders, I can see that you don't want that anymore; of course you can. Maybe that's in anticipation of what you want with the nexit. But I don't want to. Apart from our major economic interests, we know that 2 million of our jobs are linked to our exports, 70% of which are within the European Union, and there is also the importance of being embedded in strong international structures, such as NATO, transatlantic, and the European Union, in this unstable world that I have just outlined. It is vitally important at national level that we have a strong European Union, a strong NATO and a strong UN, for a knowledge-based economy such as the Netherlands. We are in the top twenty of the world and are big in the sense of a real player, but too small to cover geopolitical interests ourselves, as America and China can. So you have to be embedded in those strong structures. Such a structure also requires contributions. That is the multiannual financial framework. If you don't want to fund the owners' association, it's not gonna work. Then you don't have that structure anymore. So I can't veto the MFF. Then you get the recovery fund. We have all kinds of ideas about that. As things stand at present, I have serious reservations, but we are going to see in the coming days whether it is possible to do something, in the interests of removing the imbalance that has now occurred within the European Union and which I have just outlined. To promise now that I will veto it, that is not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u117	First of all, to the first part of the Prime Minister's reply, for which I would like to thank him. Of course important structures are also important for the Netherlands. I fully agree with the Prime Minister that we should cherish NATO. But stop talking about the UN and stop talking about the European Union. These are terrible organs that can't do anything at all, certainly not geopolitics. They certainly haven't brought peace, if they haven't already ruined it. Now I'm talking about the recovery fund. There's 700 billion in it. At least that's the planning. I want there to be a Prime Minister in the Netherlands who says: "We are not going to do that. This isn't necessary. There are funds for when those countries get into trouble. They don't use them, so this isn't urgent. I am going to make the contribution for the recovery fund to Dutch business, the Dutch citizen, Dutch SMEs, and the Dutch nurses and nurses." We need a Dutch recovery fund. We do not need a fund to give money to the Italians, the French and the Spanish. Some of them are even richer than we are. You must spend that money on the Netherlands, not on the other countries. Let us disagree on the European Union, but let us say together about the recovery fund: do not. If you do not, you will not stand up for the Dutch interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u118	We are now spending tens of billions in the Netherlands to protect our SMEs, our jobs and our interests. I agree with Geert Wilders. He's absolutely right about that. Since we have not always followed his suggestions to spend every surplus entirely immediately, we have fortunately been able to build up the reserves with which we can do that now. I'm glad. I agree with him that this is very important. There are tens of billions going to support jobs, through businesses, and to major government organisations. That's money for corona control. With now falling tax revenues, this leads to huge budget deficits. These are historical deficits, but they can be justified because of the gravity of the situation. In the second reaction to what Wilders says, I have one example. The Netherlands has a relationship with America in which there are a number of geopolitical issues. I called the American president last week about that. That's not because the American president is super interested in a country with 17 million people, I guess. That is because America realizes that the Netherlands is the founder of NATO and of the European Union, and is embedded in those structures and can exert influence to steer things in such a way that they work out well for both our countries. The world is currently uncertain and there is a great deal of concern among many people, apart from the terrible virus that is now around, about how this world is developing. That is why I think it is one of our tasks to protect our citizens and ensure that we are not alone in that cold wind, but that we are embedded in strong international structures. And yes, that includes the European Union. That's the most powerful trading block in the world, with 500 million people. In world history, there has never been such a large internal market. That's a huge success. There are a lot of problems in Europe. I just outlined a few. But the internal market of 500 million people is an historic post-war achievement, which has brought the Netherlands very, very much, both economic and geopolitical. I'm asking for real attention to be paid to that. If you don't give home in advance when there are tensions in such a club, because it all has to be spent on the Netherlands, I say: it's en-en. In the Netherlands, we are spending tens of billions, but we must also be prepared to see how we can help in the European Union's association. That's in our best interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u119	Finally, Mr President. With the love expressed by the Prime Minister for the European Union, he could apply for membership of D66. These are just D66 texts. This is a love saubade to the structures of the European Union that we would need, and I know what. This really cannot be described with a pen. Finally, once again, the example that makes it clear that this fund should not be created. I have a message for me about the French care workers. They will receive an 8 billion euro increase from the French Government. 8 billion euros; that's something different than here in the Netherlands. They get this because they also receive 39 billion in aid from donations from that fund of yours. Italy receives 81 billion in grants and 90 billion in loans, as it now looks. Prime Minister Conte, who visited last week, will temporarily reduce VAT. This is not happening in the Netherlands. In the Netherlands the people of care are still waiting for a bonus. The French give 8 billion, because they get money. We're not getting that. Spain is the third country. To get out of the crisis, that's going to give all its citizens a basic income. It's called a reform. That costs tens of billions. That's what those countries are going to do with our money, while we don't get that VAT reduction, while our health care workers are still waiting for that extra, while a basic income is lucky but there isn't any in the Netherlands. You're standing here on behalf of the Dutch citizens, aren't you? You must serve the Dutch citizens, not the companies in France, the nurses in France and the basic income for Spain. That's what you should do. That's what you were chosen for. Once again, if you do not, you will abandon the Dutch and lose our trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u120	Fortunately, in the Netherlands, we have organised it in such a way that the salaries in the care are increased with the average salary in the market sectors through the so-called oval covenant. That is well arranged in the Netherlands. Apart from that, the heroes in the care, as Geert Wilders rightly calls them, and I take those words over here, the heroes in the care now have a fair view of a bonus because of the enormous efforts that have been made during the corona crisis. We can do that here, too. That is a good thing, and it is right. We are talking here about one-off money for countries like this. You can't finance structural raises out of one-off money. So Wilders' reasoning doesn't work out. You have to achieve that in exchange for support for a number of essential investments to strengthen the structure of the economy, combined with reforms, these countries will be better placed on their own feet, so that the whole euro area and the whole European Union will become stronger in the Dutch interest, not only as an exporter but also as a bringer, as a keeper, of our collective security. So those aren't the investments Wilders calls, because those are permanent investments that you can't pay out of one-off money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u121	It is good that the Prime Minister defends the importance of the European Union to Mr Wilders, but in Europe at the moment we are mostly known as the Neezegger in many countries. I quote a headline: Rutte's resistance is damaging the European recovery. The Prime Minister said in his introductory words that it is not at all bad if it freaks out every now and then or if we are a little bit critical now and then. But can he imagine anything about the idea that in other countries it is said that the Netherlands is only thinking very exclusively of its own Dutch interest, thereby losing sight of the broader European perspective of cooperation? Can you imagine? Or do you say, no, that line I chose...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u122	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u123	...that we've talked about five or six times in the Chamber, that's what I'm standing for, and there's nothing to do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u124	I don't understand that observation. It is remarkable, by the way, that Mr Van Ojik quoted here so extensively the Financial Times. I liked that, although this was a less successful main commentary. I do not recognize the image that Mr Van Ojik puts here. The Netherlands is pretty much the net net payer of the European Union in good It shows that we are prepared to pull the wallet in order to ensure that we have a properly functioning European Union. We're a rich country, too. Is it just crazy, I ask Mr Van Ojik, that we say that there is a limit to that too? When Brexit takes place, is it so strange that the Netherlands says that you should reduce the European budget by that English share and not keep it to a large extent, as if the British are still members, which means that the Netherlands has to contribute much more relatively? Secondly, is it so crazy, I ask Mr Van Ojik, that we are prepared to show solidarity with countries that are struggling, but that we ask those countries to take all the measures themselves when they receive this support to ensure that they can do so themselves next time? Those are very reasonable requests, aren't they? That's not crazy, is it? That's not a country that says no, is it? That is a country that is willing to help far, but also tries to keep looking at it in business.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u125	I believe that in this case it is not even a question of whether it is reasonable to ask other countries to reform them. I thought this was mentioned earlier in the debate. I do not believe that this is a position that will be very strange in Europe. Everyone agrees on this to a greater or lesser extent. It is about whether you, as the Netherlands, are working constructively to reach a compromise rather than simply saying: I do not want this, there is not a penny to be added, I do not want a gift but a loan. It's about the way you go with others... and I don't want to refer to Angela Merkel every time, because then the Prime Minister tells me that after the Financial Times I'm gonna come up with a Christian Democrat, too, that it shouldn't get any weirder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u126	I hope Mr Klaver is not listening now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u127	But I really mean this: there are several ways to show leadership. You can do that by saying that you stand strictly and exclusively for the Dutch interest. You can also do it by saying that we are now in this terrible situation together, in the covid pandemic, so we are going to jointly see if we can find a constructive way out of it. And that is my question to the Prime Minister: what contribution does he make to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u128	But that's how I'm in it. As far as we are concerned, the budget is simply rising along with economic growth, inflation and so on. That makes sense. We are also asking not to cut the European budget. All we are saying is that if a 65 million people's economy steps out of the European Union, it is not surprising that you are also reducing the budget of a similar size. And indeed we say to Southern Europe: yes, we understand that countries such as Spain, France and Italy need support now, but be prepared to reform. I listened carefully to what Mr Bruins said about it in his first term, and I think that is precisely the point in the debate on subsidies or loans. I also understand that you can have a problem with rising public debt if you only stick to loans, but there is another point. Why do we have great difficulty with these subsidies? Because there is a doubt in the Netherlands as to whether these actual reforms are taking place. One of the things that I have been discussing with those colleagues who are all visiting over the last few days is how they can guarantee them and how we can ensure that reforms are nailed down in the decision-making process. You do not want to see that part is donations, but that part of the grants is provided without the necessary reforms at that time. This is partly due to the lack of confidence that there is, of course, here, because these countries have not implemented these reforms in many cases over the past 20, 30 years. The European Commission said a few years ago, through Jean-Claude Juncker, it was quoted earlier today by someone who said that France is too big to stick to the Stability and Growth Pact. I have already said to Jean-Claude Juncker: 17 million Dutch people have heard this and remember that phrase. France is too large to adhere to the Stability and Growth Pact. So there is concern here about whether countries in the South want to reform, what is needed to rise up in competitiveness, and there is concern whether, when it comes to it, the Commission is actually keen to see that it is happening. That is why the Netherlands says: we do not really feel for subsidies, but for loans. If you want subsidies, how do you get guarantees that these reforms will take place? That's the kind of discussion you have then. Of course, that is also in the question of how to organise your governance and how to keep your finger on the pulse, even as the Netherlands, simply because there is a piece of trust gone. You always try to find solutions constructively, but that's not easy. That's really not easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u129	The Prime Minister has mentioned several times the reforms that would be important. I wonder how he's gonna start talking. The objective seems clear to me, namely that these countries should get their budgets in order. You might have a discussion about that, but most people agree that that's wise. But then you will also mention a number of examples of how this should be done. Are pensions and the labour market on the table? Does the Netherlands really think they should reform it? Or will the Netherlands just say that the budget needs to be in order? Because that's quite a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u130	No, we say that these reforms must take place. Because now that the budget has been put in order, it is not going to happen here in the Netherlands either. The impact is so great that it is not realistic, with this kind of huge deficits as a result of the crisis. But you want to restore the long-term earning ability. The freeway to higher competitiveness, increased competitiveness, is reform of pensions and the labour market. All other things are useful, too. When a colleague tells me that he wants to spend European money on green investments, I say: "Super. Do it! But that's not reform. That's a smart investment. I'm sorry, but you also have to look at your pension system and your labour market, because without tackling these two, you won't have a structural strengthening of your economy." So a green investment isn't reform. That's a smart investment. Reform is, after all, always in the labour market and pensions. How do you do that? The Dutch proposal for this is quite simple: based on the country-specific recommendations for 2019, everything is in it. I have taken all my colleagues from Italy, Portugal and Spain through those lists. It's got everything in it. The Commission has done very well. It says precisely that the frozen pension reform in Italy should be removed and that barriers on the protected professions in Portugal and Spain should be removed. It is about tax collection and combating corruption in Italy and labour market reforms in all these countries. That's all in those CSRs 2019. The Commission has put that perfectly on paper. Then my view would be: do these things; carry through those reforms. That's good for all of us. I would like to add that we in the Netherlands do not immediately trust that the system in Brussels will not say at the last minute: well, it did not really happen, but here you have your money. I think it is important that we look at governance in a way that, as the Netherlands, we can keep our finger on the pulse very tight to make sure that it actually happens. That could be a path to subsidies, but then you have to do it. So far, we're not in favour of that because we never really saw that road. And to some extent we still don't see that road, because he's not there yet, but we're trying to find him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u131	The Prime Minister makes it sound like they're really business decisions, but at the heart of it is, of course, deep and deep politics. When he refers to the country-specific recommendations, he refers to the European Semester. Well, I know a number of examples that have been addressed to the Netherlands for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u132	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u133	We are not doing that either, because we have had a liberal cabinet for years. I call flexibilisation forzzp'ers. I hope the Borstlap Committee is only now going to do something about that. By the way, when we talk about private debts, the Netherlands was also constantly reluctant. So if the Prime Minister is now using that European semester and saying that those countries really need to do something about pensions, then they are also political conditions. They're not business. Does the Prime Minister therefore recognise that these are liberal conditions? For example, it concerns raising retirement age or tackling the labour market and relaxing redundancy rights in southern countries. These are liberal conditions for aid, while they should be conditions for aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u134	I cannot help saying that liberal conditions are often sensible conditions, if Mr Alkaya wants to hear me say so. That happens to be the case here. It's often like that, by the way, I find more with my party cap on. I can say it now, because my colleagues in the cabinet are not here anyway. But, yeah, that's just the way it is. The Commission's country-specific recommendation affects pension systems, labour markets, etc. News for Mr Alkaya: if he came to power with his party and if he didn't carry out that kind of reform here, then the matter will quickly get into the gravel box here. It's necessary. The fact that we now have this great demand for thirst is because we have carried out reforms here in the past for pensions and the labour market and we have put our public finances in order. That makes us so rich. That's why our economy turned so well until early March, when the whole thing, of course, ran into the bug of the virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u135	I have just mentioned a number of examples of points that the Netherlands should implement and which we have not implemented, precisely because of those horse valves. I refer to flexibility in the labour market, the high level of household debt. We have done nothing about this, precisely because of this liberal cabinet. A socialist cabinet would have dealt with these very points, and then we would not have had those comments in the European Semester. So it works both ways. I am opposed here to the Prime Minister's suggestion as if it were business discussions, as if it were business. It is deep and deep politics, and the Minister admits that he will be focusing on liberal conditions towards the southern countries at the European summit, which I do not think should be the case. It must be about solidarity, about helping each other. The Minister is using this together with the European Commission to implement a liberal agenda. That's what he's admitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u136	I lost Mr. Alkaya in a dark forest. I think there are sensible things in the country-specific recommendation. Mr Alkaya told me that there were also recommendations for the Netherlands that have not always been implemented. He's right about that. Moreover, we are taking measures at the moment, including in this coalition agreement, to reduce private debt. Look at what this cabinet is doing in the field of mortgage interest relief and in the field of the labour market. He is absolutely right that the Netherlands, if this cabinet were to have its way in Brussels, would, of course, have a serious discussion with those who are concerned about whether we should have our money. On the other hand, however, I would like to say that if we had not raised the retirement age and adapted to life expectancy, we would now have had a huge problem with these country-specific recommendations. If we hadn't done all kinds of reforms in the labour market before. So that's always a balance. Of course, Mr Alkaya is right about that. Having said that, Mr President, I shall proceed quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u137	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u138	This is what we are talking about, because that has always been the strength of the Chamber of I have also answered Mr Bruins' question on the clauseing of loans and gifts by implication. Mr President, if you will allow me, I will turn to the questions on the MFF. Then I'll do the fund, then I'll do the rest. As far as the MFF is concerned, there's a lot. So I'm gonna go right through it. It was a little ripe and green. It was almost impossible to get it exactly right in the structure without missing my salmon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u139	Well, Mr. Jetten is going to help you, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u140	Before we do not touch this subject anymore, I will go on with this. I asked in the first term who ultimately decides what reforms countries are going to implement in exchange for receiving loans or gifts. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that it is important that national parliaments and the European Parliament should finally make a final assessment of whether these are sensible reforms for the specific Member States in order to receive these gifts and loans?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u141	Yes. In general terms: yes. Then I'm going to answer the part from the next set; that's about the recovery fund. In Michel's proposal, which was last Friday's negotiating box, the Commission will assess the plans in advance and then submit a decision to the Council, which will then have to take a decision by QMV, by qualified majority. This proposal will make the decision on payment by the Commission, but there is a high-level portal, the Ecofin, which will have to deliver an opinion on it. I think it's called Economic and Financial Committee, the EFC. That's a high-level committee. If it does not agree with the opinion, it has to be explained and it returns to Ecofin. That's how I read the proposal. These are adjustments to the Commission's original proposal which we like. This will probably be enough if you talk about loans. As far as I am concerned, it is not enough if you really want to make the journey to subsidies, because certainly with regard to the payment of commitments, the trancheing of payments, there must be much more for the Netherlands than this. But it's going the right way in itself. In the proposal, he has also put it in fact that he has taken it up with the Commission in how the plans are assessed. Whether the plans address the country-specific recommendations, as I have just discussed them with Mr Alkaya. Or the plans contribute to the green and digital transitions. Whether there is a long-term impact of the plan. Whether the countries are strengthening growth capacity and achieving job creation. Whether it is sufficiently substantiated, including the amounts. And whether a realistic implementation path is outlined, with concrete intermediate milestones and final targets. Mr Alkaya, as well as Mr Jetten, asked for democratic legitimacy in the first place. I think you should say here first of all: we cannot sit in the seat of parliaments as a government. This cannot be done here or in other countries. Each Member State therefore submits its own national reform plan. That's a national matter. That will very often go in line with Parliament. Of course, here anyway, but I think, quite frankly, that is true for most countries. The proposed financing structure will have financial consequences beyond 2028 and years thereafter. That is why this democratic guarantee is extremely important. So I actually agree with both of them. That is why it is so important that, when you talk about subsidies, Member States can make a decisive assessment of whether the Member States meet the conditions. Then, of course, there is the question of what reforms are involved. I think I just answered that question. That was a question from Mrs Kuik and Mr Mulder. I have just answered the question of what reforms we are talking about in the interrupting debate. Then there was a question, I thought, about the European Parliament. The Commission's plans provide for the European Parliament to be consulted at various times. For example, with the MFF, the Multiannual Financial Framework, and the Multi-annual Financial Framework itself. That is where the European Parliament has a major role to play. But there are also many other times, such as the adoption of regulations in the field of cohesion funds and so on, on which the European Parliament plays a role. So I think that's well arranged. In essence, I think that is the answer to Mr Jetten's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u142	I think it is right for the Prime Minister here to stress that democratic legitimacy should lie with the national parliaments. The Commission's country-specific recommendations are a good source of inspiration for countries to draw on when they reflect on reforms. But we, as a Dutch Parliament too, do not want the Catshuis or any other place between two Heads of Government to think about what the reforms look like. We want it really to be a debate that can take place in any national parliament. I am therefore pleased that the Prime Minister has explained it in this way. Then on the conditions and timing of granting loans or grants to Member States. If I listen carefully to the Prime Minister, so this is a check-up question, he no longer says that subsidies are excluded, but he says: the moment that loans become grants, you actually want to have good promises not only on paper about reforms, but you can actually see that those reforms are being deployed and implemented, so that the earning capacity of other Member States also improves. So there is no blockade on subsidies, but the Prime Minister would like to attach very clear conditions to this before Member States can make use of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u143	This is the problem, isn't it? That's why I'm pretty gloomy about how things are going to be Friday and Saturday. Then three things are essential. On the basis of that country-specific recommendation, the reform plans should include reforms of pensions, the labour market and so on. I agree with Jetten: these reforms must have taken place. That is the second point. Then it's not just a plan. No, it must have been implemented by parliament. But the most difficult thing here is, of course, the question of who decides. I believe that in the last ten years there has been a growing distrust of the way in which the Stability and Growth Pact functioned. But there is also a time when countries are asked to commit not in the loan part but in the grant part for a long time to that part that comes to payment at that time. This is also a moment of sovereignty, where I do not find it strange at all that you are giving the national Member States a major role in this, if not a decisive role. That conversation's going on, too. That's partly because there are of course concerns about maybe being said at the final moment: you know, it's just not enough, but just do it. Of course, we've seen that before. In the case of other countries, you had one of those troikas the IMF was in. That's not possible here. That's not gonna work here either. So the question is how to ensure that national governments and national parliaments play a major role in this, so that you lose the piece of mistrust that has grown, but you also have a positive attitude that has the moment of democratic legitimacy that a financial commitment is actually being made. In doing so, the Commission has borrowed money and a part of that loan is converted into a grant. This also requires a commitment from Member States to deal with them in 20, 25 years. Then I do not find it so strange that you, as a Member State, say that you want to be involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u144	Finally. I agree that when assessing these plans we must have a better, stronger European Commission than we have seen in the past. But I would also like to give the Prime Minister the following: let us avoid the possibility of a veto on the part of individual Member States. It is also a search for a balance between having sufficient confidence in these reforms in order to be able to make subsidies and, on the other hand, preventing this from becoming such a long and complicated procedure that we will not be using that fund at all in the years to come and that we will also be delaying the economic recovery unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u145	I agree with the second half of Mr Jetten's question. You don't need to slow it down unnecessarily. I also met with Pedro Sánchez yesterday. He says it's a cluttered process, with lots of steps and things. We can unclutter it. Let's see how we simplify it. As far as the first half is concerned, I cannot give you any assurance, because I have not yet found any other way than the suggestion that Mr Jetten is not in favour of, given the first half of his question. Well, that's the only way you're really sure. Then there will be no things that the Netherlands would say: sorry, here the matter is really fudged. Moreover, there is the moment, a sovereign moment, when a national parliament and a cabinet undertake a long-term financial commitment. I know that for that small part of that tranche and that programme, it is not very high at such a time, but it can of course increase in the sum total.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u146	Just one more time, Mr. Chairman. Does the Prime Minister therefore see it as his challenge for the coming days to come, as the Netherlands, possibly with a few other countries, to come up with very concrete proposals on how to do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u147	I can assure you that we are now doing nothing else behind the scenes and that, given how we react, I am not hopeful about Friday and Saturday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u148	I'm gonna build on this point a little bit. Do I understand correctly that there is a difference in the extent to which you want to enforce the conditions, the conditions, when it comes to loans or subsidies? Did I hear the Prime Minister correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u149	I think that's politically real. In any case, the problem with these loans is that they are again contributing to the already high national debts of countries. The benefits are, of course, in the interest rate advantage. Wilders, of course, had a point in his term: if Italy were to take that 38 billion out of the April ESM package, they would have an interest rate advantage of 5 billion to 6 billion. That's just the difference between the interest they pay and the very low interest charged on the ESM. But apparently the word "ESM" is stagnant in Italy. But it is also true that the 38 billion will be added to Italy's national debt. But you spend it on things that lead to more economic growth, so in the end borrowing isn't wrong at all. But we cannot deny, of course, that there is the disadvantage of further increasing debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u150	Just finishing up, though. I have understood the Dutch position throughout the whole time so that it is very important to make those conditions truly enforceable, so that you are going to reform as a country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u151	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u152	Which puzzles me a little bit, and that was also the total point at the moment... We believe that the idea of loans and good conditions is a good way of enforcing them. I had not so much understood that we were already in favour of converting all this into gifts and subsidies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u153	We're not, not at all, no, no. What I'm sketching is... We are in favour of loans, and those loans are subject to conditions. When countries then say 'but we also want to know what the way to subsidies is', I say: but then I have to be able to explain to Slootweg, Mulder, Van Ojik, the Dutch Parliament and all the Dutch citizens that in return all the fundamental reforms that have so far stalled are taking place. Then I also want you as the Netherlands to be able to say that it did not happen, so we do not. I think that's where the balance is at the end of the day. You're gonna have to find it. I'm not so hopeful about that at all. That is also the whole disadvantage of the Commission's whole package: you are in fact taking action... Take the fact that yesterday I was working with both Sánchez from Spain and Costa from Portugal to go through in detail the Commission's national reform proposals. That is, of course, ridiculous, but that is what you are getting now because there is a proposal that says that loans and possibly even subsidies must be made to those countries. Then I would like conditions that you do what I think is important, namely reform so that you can do it yourself next time. "What are you getting into?" They didn't say that. I said, "I don't want to interfere at all, but you just asked me if we want to help financially." If it's a grant, I think it's real that you go much further in your demands than in a loan. In any case, I suspect that the loan portion will be used only to a limited extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u154	The Prime Minister makes it very clear that a package of loans is no longer on the table in real terms and that it is actually about subsidies. He also says that he can live with it when a number of conditions are met. He mentions two issues that are particularly sensitive. It is about pensions and about the labour market and how you reform them. That is very general. How likely does the Prime Minister think that this will be part of the package? He doesn't want to use his right of veto either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u155	Use the right of veto? Look, if it's not okay, we say no. Of course, that's obvious, but then you'll be on Saturday night or two, three tops away. Of course, the Netherlands is not going to say yes if it is not good. Of course, it's always willing to use the right of veto, but I always find it so... Jeroen Pauw asked Sunday night: are you willing to use the right of veto? I think that's so powerless. In Europe you come up with proposals and ideas. Some countries want whatever you don't want. "Can you fix it like that?" We are still very much in favour of loans; we are actually only for loans. If a number of countries say they also want subsidies, what are the preconditions for that? What I'm up against right now, even in the conversations yesterday, is that it doesn't cheer me up. The chances of this happening on Friday or Saturday are very gloomy. The extent to which countries are willing to commit to the far-reaching reforms that we consider necessary, including in governance... Countries really need to be able to determine whether this reform has taken place. You leave that not only with the Commission but also with the countries. I think it will be very difficult to reach agreement on this. Then you'll fall back on loans, if you can do that at all. Far from it. The question was asked to me, Mr Bruins, in fact, in his contribution, what the bridge might be from a loan to a grant. Well, this one. But those conditions are so tight, I don't get the impression it's just gonna fly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u156	With all due respect, I was at the debate, so I've heard the answers before. I didn't ask for a repeat of moves. It just doesn't seem real to me to speak of loans if we all know that the greatest chance of reaching an agreement with each other is in grants. My question was very specific: how real does the Prime Minister consider what he wants in return? What conditions are there for putting them on the negotiating table? If you're not prepared to negotiate on that, you know at all that you're gonna end up with a njet, and I don't think it's the Prime Minister's intention to come up with a no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u157	Now we're going back a few steps. The Netherlands is for loans and not for subsidies. I understand in itself that the loans contribute to national debt, but in Europe there is a great need to see how to bridge subsidies. Then I would like to outline that there would be some very strict conditions, which I am pessimistic about or are being accepted at the moment. It is not so that I say: oh, you do not accept those terms; we do it without those conditions. No, this is the only way Mr Bruins asked for a bridge from loans to subsidies. If they're not accepted, I'm afraid this isn't gonna work. In the case of loans, these conditions are also very important; Mr Slootweg was right to do so. I do not get to explain to myself or to anyone that we would be willing to grant loans, let alone grant subsidies without far-reaching reforms, so that countries can do it themselves later, and without the Netherlands being able to keep an eye on whether those reforms have actually been implemented. Those are really a few of the conditions that are very difficult and that make me see it gloomy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u158	I'm not here to play stupid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u159	I'll answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u160	It is simply not real to hold on to loans, when we simply know that the vast majority of European Member States do not want that alone. Then it is also real that we here as a parliament are asking: what harsh conditions do you want to attach to the subsidies? If you don't want to talk about that at all...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u161	But we do, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u162	Then the Prime Minister says I'm being challenged, President-in-Office, that he doesn't want subsidies. No, we do now. I don't want things either, but sometimes you have to negotiate and you have to move forward because you're looking for that economic recovery, because you're looking for a future, because you're looking for solidarity. Then I would like a serious answer to the question of the conditions under which we can talk about subsidies and how real the Prime Minister considers them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u163	But that's what I call it. That's two of them. 1. Labour market and pension reforms in line with the European Commission's 2019 national recommendations. They're excellent; everything's in there. Also for the Netherlands there are a few tricky things in it. Sure, the SP was right about that. However, they are even more difficult for a number of other countries. 2. Before we can agree to the transfer of money, we as the Netherlands must determine whether this has happened. Those are two very important conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u164	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u165	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go ahead with the recovery fund and then I'm gonna go with the MFF. We've done most of the things. It was asked whether there were sufficient safeguards to prevent it from becoming some kind of permanent mechanism. The recovery fund has a temporary character in the proposal. Expenditure may be made under the recovery fund until 2026, i.e. no later than 2026. We will work at the European Council to further shorten the duration of payments. As far as financing is concerned, I refer to the own resources decision, which has already defined that the Commission should only borrow for COOVID-19. The Netherlands supports the temporary nature of the funding and is committed to ensuring it properly during the negotiations. In my view, this is a legal guarantee that it will all be a one-off. That is also very important, because it is not a Eurobond or a transfer union, but it is a one-off within an instrument, namely borrowing under the headroom that has been used more often. Does the cabinet share the premise that the health and economic impact of corona must be decisive? In fact, we think it is important that the real economic impact of the COVID-19 outbreak weighs heavily in the distribution of resources. You saw at first that they said: we divide it on the basis of the unemployment rates 2015-2019. In the meantime, a breakdown has been added on the basis of the actual decline in GDP over the period 2021-2022. I understand what has been said about Poland. Poland has a 4% contraction of the economy and is expected to recover in one year. By doing this new mix you can see that countries that are hit less hard or recover faster, like Poland, also have some pockets in that list. I agree that this makes sense. I understand, of course, the situation in Spain and Italy and, to some extent, in France. But, frankly, it's already getting much more complicated in Poland. Then I think: why them and not us? We believe, moreover, that the proposal can be improved further. Around 70/30 distribution could also become a 50/50 distribution. Then there was a question on this point about the role of large businesses in the recovery tools. The various instruments within the MFF, the Recovery Fund and the Eurogroup package have different objectives and target groups, which is what Mrs Kuik asked for. Of course, there are all kinds of tools that are intended for citizens, there are instruments that support national and regional authorities, and there are tools that support business. The latter category focuses on SMEs. In the end, of course, this goes through the EU authorities or public authorities. The implementation will then lie with them. Then there is Mr Mulder's question about the need assessment by the CPB. I told you back then, I was depressed about that. I checked again. They now see no room to pass on the Commission's proposals, because their existing working stock consumes the full capacity of the Central Planning Office. For the Netherlands, this means that we will make extra efforts to ensure that the fund is limited to the necessary issues directly related to the corona impact, and that we adjust keys where necessary, so that the size can be reduced. Mr. Chairman. That was in response to questions about the recovery fund. If you will allow me, I will now turn to the questions on the Multiannual Financial Framework. There are a lot of questions in there, ripe and green. But I see that Mr Mulder first has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u166	First about the distribution of the money. The money must go to the countries most economically affected by the corona crisis. The Prime Minister says we're going from 30%-70% to 50%-50%. That is fine, but can we also just see that the countries most affected by the economic crisis are also getting the money one-on-one, so that Poland does not suddenly pop up again? I understand the formula, but it's the result of that formula that matters to me. Is it okay now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u167	Well, not quite. No, he's not in order. I said that in the distribution of the Commission Poland was in place 3, directly behind Italy and Spain. I should like to ask for the second time, but I believe that the Commission's original proposal was as follows: Italy and Spain on 1 or 2 and then Poland on 3. I thought that was weird. I think a lot of people here thought that was weird, given how Poland stands. What Michel, Charles Michel, is now proposing is to distribute some of the money on the basis of a drop in GDP in '21 and '22. This is limited for Poland, because of the stronger economic outlook. So Poland seems to be failing on that list. In his negotiating box, he proposes a 70% distribution key based on how the Commission proposes it and 30% as he proposes it. If you turn that into 50-50, that will change even further, but this is, of course, part of the negotiations. Because I can just imagine them looking at those states in Warsaw and saying: hey, we liked the first proposal better. That is, of course, not complete, but I fully agree that this must be our intention. If I negotiate now, I'll put a few things in place. That is, among other things, the rebate; we will get to that in a moment. As far as the recovery fund is concerned, these are: reforms, reforms, reforms. And two: the money must go to the countries that need it. But of course I didn't make the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u168	So we're going to see if we can turn it around so that it does go to the countries that really need it and not to the countries that don't need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u169	Exactly. That's what I want.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u170	Then the CPB. I understand what the Prime Minister is saying, namely that we should not have it passed on, but I am going to appeal to him anyway. You can see that the European Commission is failing and always comes up with optimistic figures: every euro issued by the European Union always yields more. If you follow that, you should do everything you deserve through the European Union, because the trees grow there in the forest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u171	Don't let Mr. Jetten hear it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u172	If you know that the British are out, who have always done so themselves with assessments, then it is time for the Dutch government to put together a group of people, specialists from the CPB, the General Court, the Ministry of Finance, who are simply going to pass on every euro that the European Commission wants to spend? Because the European Commission is failing, as we have said before. Every FTE at the CPB gets ten times as much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u173	I agree. However, the honest answer is that the CPB says that, of course, I am not talking about that; I have to ask what the machine can do there, that they are really at their expense now because of, I assume, the budget and the Tax Plan. They are closely involved in calculating the effects of all national aid packages: the NOW, the Tozo and the TOGS. To be honest, I suspect that is why they are saying now: we cannot really deliver a very fundamental opinion on this now. If Mr Mulder asks me if I want to think about it now, perhaps not now, how to ensure that you, as the Netherlands, have a much more structural view of the effectiveness of euros spent at European level, that is a challenge that I address with both hands. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u174	Shall we then agree that the Prime Minister will return to the Millions Note on how he is going to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u175	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u176	Maybe he can put the coins in there right away to put that group to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u177	Yeah, that's good. But I don't know if that's going to happen in the Millions Note. The Minister of Finance always hates it when it has to contain all kinds of text blocks from other ministers. Yes, of course we all know our colleagues. But Prince's Day is the time. We are going to look for a few words, and I hope that officials will understand how to gain more structural insight into the use of European money. I admit we'll report to the Chamber about that around Prince's Day. Mr. Chairman. One of the questions about the Multiannual Financial Framework was how the Brexit Fund of 5 billion will work. In itself, I found it positive that it was in the proposals. Moreover, there is not yet a detailed proposal, but only an announcement. If you look at the Dutch position, you can see that we are severely hit by the Brexit, just like Flanders, Ireland, Denmark and the French west coast. Those are the countries that are most affected. The Netherlands is really in the top. The negotiating document invites the Commission to make a proposal by November 2020. We welcome the fact that this proposal is there. We are, of course, going to try to promote it as much as possible in a way that pleases the Chamber and us. But there is no proposal yet, other than the pot. Mr. Chairman. The rule of law condition is crucial. This is what I want to say. Diederik Samsom taught me at the start of the previous cabinet: Mark, Europe is more than a market and a currency; it is also a value community. "Yes, Diederik. I agree with that." Over time, I have started to internalize that thought, partly because of the international need to be embedded in such a strong structure. But if there is a country where there are homo-free zones and the rule of law does not function properly in all possible ways, there are unfortunately several countries in which that is the case, and we let that happen, we need to stop talking about that value community at some point. Let us just say: Europe is a market and a currency. Then I'll go back to my tastes before 2012. But I was convinced it's more than that. So I am also extra motivated to work on this. It is true that a few Members have said that conditionality has been somewhat weakened in the Commission's proposals. But I think he can still do it. I'll explain why. The Commission has now said that they are all compromises, of course, but I believe that those acceptable ones are that there should be a QMV, not a Reverse QMV, but a QMV. What does that mean in practice? I've just gotten to the bottom of that. Such a blocking minority that you need to stop a Commission designation is there if at least four members of the Council vote against more than 35% of the EU population. Then I went to see what that means for a number of countries. In the first term, it was suggested that the four Visegrád countries could block. That's not true. They won't be there for a long time. I also took a look at what's going on if you take on a number of other countries. One of the CDA's list of candidates is very closely involved in the fight against corruption in one of the European Member States, which I will not mention here for diplomatic reasons. For example, there are more countries that we are concerned about. If you add those well-known countries to the four Visegrád countries, you still don't get that 35%. This is our view that the proposal that Michel is making, namely not Reverse QMV but QMV, is doable. That proposal is, moreover, in line with the proposal made by Michel in February. We also debated this in the run-up to the February European Council. I told him that if anything goes off, for example, because Poland says on Friday or Saturday: yes, that still needs to be watered down. I'm not the only one, by the way. Then there are a lot of countries that will say that there's just no deal and that it's going to crash. I would like to say that this is possible just now. It is broad enough not to allow a Commission proposal to be overruled under normal circumstances, otherwise a very strange coalition will have to be formed. I would also like to say here that if this weakens further, I will really fight until I fall down, because I do not think that is acceptable. This really is the lower limit, but an acceptable lower limit; just in spirit or compromise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u178	I have no doubt about the Prime Minister's commitment on this point, but if I understand correctly, I have not looked so much at the countries, but the difference between a qualified and a reversed qualified majority is that 91 votes or 255 votes are needed. On the contrary, this means that 255 out of 345 votes are needed to reject a Commission proposal, and otherwise 91. My question is actually, regardless of which countries that might be, whether the Netherlands, as I thought it had read in the appreciation, is going to make itself strong for that reversed qualified majority, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u179	Yeah, but it's not feasible. I want to be real here, too. Then we also have to establish that there will be no deal. There won't be one. Then I have the veto in my pocket. Then I veto because there will be no reverse qualified majority. But I really don't see it happening. So, yeah, we're fighting for it, but it's not gonna happen. What I think we really need to fight for now is that what we have here is not going to weaken. What's lying there is just now. It's not pretty, but it's possible. It's still solid enough. That would be my opinion. So, yeah, we fight. I also have it in every conversation I have with anyone else yesterday in all conversations and also on Friday about the rule of law, the weakenings that have taken place and that we actually want to go back to reversed QMV. But again for this, because we also have to talk about this openly. The political assessment that I have is that if we make a hard point of it, even harder than what I just said about loans and subsidies, then it will be stuck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u180	Finally, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u181	In any case, I have avoided a motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u182	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u183	That's not up to me, Mr. Chairman. This is a clear answer. It's not an answer I like...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u184	No, me neither.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u185	I understand that, but it is a clear answer. But just to be clear, as far as the Prime Minister is concerned, this simple qualified majority is a lower limit. He won't come back here next time with "sorry, that wasn't feasible either." Can we rule that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u186	I say here: if that threatens to happen, and that is what the whole of Europe is hearing now, then it is ready for the Netherlands. We're not gonna fall for this. No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u187	In particular, I would like to underline the last response that the Prime Minister is now giving to Mr Van Ojik, because in recent years we have seen in the current agreements, for example when the Article 7 procedure against Hungary is started, that it happens regularly that up to 15 Member States were against it for all kinds of reasons. Michel's proposal is good, but it's actually not good enough. I therefore welcome the Prime Minister's commitment to Mr Van Ojik that he will not accept any further weakening of Michel's proposal on this point. I would like to say that here as support in the Prime Minister's back on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u188	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u189	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u190	So that means, let me just say to D66, that I can come back and that the Netherlands has vetted. It's possible. And then I have no problem with Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u191	That's right. I think that is what I said in the debate on the state of the Union. I hope that this Prime Minister will fight just as hard for that value community and for the rule of law as he does for every euro of Dutch taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u192	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u193	That's a consistent story. I admit that. Then Frontex and Horizon. There's no cutting back on that. These budgets, too, are still being stepped up. But, of course, we'd want a lot more. That's right. It is true, of course, that I agree with everyone who says that the European budget still reflects, to a large extent, the Europe of the 1970s and 1980s, with a lot of agricultural expenditure and a lot of expenditure on cohesion, which I find less serious. I have never understood why these cohesion funds should go to richer countries, like our country. Now focus them much more on the countries that are really below par and lower those budgets. Now it remains a bit of a matter of pumping around, also to parts of the Netherlands and Germany, but well. It's true. But certainly these agricultural resources are now of such size and our modern Dutch agriculture benefits so little that, I think, you could do a lot more for agriculture if you didn't have to pump those resources around. So I agree. But this also applies: these are all balances. I therefore agree with all the concerns on this point, but I do see that this is a positive sign that the budgets for Frontex and Horizon are still increasing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u194	I'll give you the floor in a minute, Mrs. Chicken. I was curious to see how far you are in answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u195	I think I'm actually a long way from the fund. Then all I have left is the pile of others.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u196	Then I will go to Mr Van Ojik for a very short question, if that's all right. Yes, briefly, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u197	The Prime Minister says there will be no cuts. But then you always have to look at what is not being cut. Compared to the proposal before the MFF, the MFF of 1,100 billion, savings are being made on such things as Frontex and development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u198	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u199	Yeah, that's the point, of course. The Netherlands has thus achieved that the ceiling has gone down slightly. And what do we have to turn in for that? That is our desire to have a modernised budget, which focuses on the right priorities. I think that's the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u200	First a mistake I may have made myself. Of course, we've always been very committed to that 1%. We should have said that much more clearly over the last nine months: "We are not so much concerned with that 1%. We don't care about the rebates. It's not about the collection costs. We are concerned that we do not pay more than last time, plus inflation, plus economic growth." How do you come up with "no more to pay than inflation plus economic growth"? That's a mix of three things. That's the ceiling. If that goes up, those rebates will have to rise, too. Or your collection costs should rise. But eventually you have three buttons that you can turn on to make sure you don't pay more than last time, plus inflation, plus economic growth. So we have also been saying to Brussels for a long time that we do not need to lower that ceiling. That ceiling may be raised, but then of course the rebates also have to go up, otherwise the bottom right goes wrong. If you look at the bird in the sky of a concept-MFK, then of course there is also savings on these kinds of posts. That's true. But the only bird we really control is the bird of the MFK 2014-2020. With regard to this MFF, which is now evolving, Frontex and Horizon are still increasing. Not enough. I'd like a lot more, too. I agree. But it's increasing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u201	That's exactly where I'm concerned. Not only do we have a health crisis, but we now also have an economic crisis. We know that an economic crisis results in a hunger crisis and that there will be a migration crisis afterwards. So I honestly do not understand this choice. I do not understand why these posts are being cut in relation to what was said. My question is therefore: have we not just focused too much on the 1% and the discount? Have we not forgotten these essential conditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u202	I don't believe that. We have always talked about this, even though I believe it was organized from D66 at the National Conference on Modernisation, mid-term the previous MFF. No, I really don't believe that. Only, of course, it is true that there are powerful, large countries in Europe that attach great importance to these traditional posts. Look at a country like France and its addiction to the common agricultural policy. Yeah, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u203	Finally, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u204	But is there any other way to get this back on the table? Once again, I am really seeing a next migration crisis. So I really don't get it, whether you're looking at it from a humanitarian point of view or from the point of view of protection. I honestly don't understand this choice. So is it not wise, after all, to take these aspects, rather than regard them as a fact, once again being completely negotiated?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u205	Frontex is increasing enormously, which triples, and Horizon is increasing by 13.5 billion, so it's not like nothing's going to come of it. Where we see opportunities to continue to focus on modernisation, I do so, of course. We keep trying to do that, but I'm also saying honestly that I don't notice that there's a lot there... We already have so many fish to fry in this discussion that I don't immediately see this fish coming up to temperature.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u206	I may be reading it wrong, but I read that part of Frontex and Horizon are occasionally paid from Next Generation EU. Is that correct or did I misunderstand? I believe that structural expenditure is necessary, in line with Mrs Kuik, when it comes to what is going on about migration. Isn't it weird to occasionally finance that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u207	I asked for this a few times during the break, but they're listening now. Yes, it is true that in those Commission proposals for that Recovery Fund there is another 190 billion. My question was whether we are 100% sure that there are increases in the budget for Horizon and Frontex without the 190 billion. Out of this 190 billion comes money for this kind of business. I think that's the case. I'm gonna use the microphone to ask that question one more time. At the moment, my answer is what I just said, but I will return to it in the second term, hopefully in the affirmative. In the MFF 2014-2020 there is 65.5 billion for Horizon and 80.9 billion in the Commission's proposal. For Frontex there is 1.6 billion in the MFF 2014-2020 and 5.8 billion now. That is the Commission's proposal, but I am going to ask for a double confirmation as to whether that is not true in my view, and I am sure that is true of the 190 billion that is again in the 500 billion in grants in the Recovery Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u208	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u209	I agree with Stoffer and Mulder about the 0.6 billion that is now added, the lack of what we have left and the gap between what we want and what Michel is proposing. That's what's there and we're working to get rid of it, according to the Leijten/Bisschop motion. We're doing the best we can for that. Then there was the question about EU for Health. Negotiations are currently under way on the EU for Health independent health programme. This is financed both from the MFF and from that recovery fund. Content has also been focussed on themes that focus directly on the recovery of COOVID-19 and on more structural themes. From the Netherlands we ask questions about the relationship between the health programme and other programmes, for example the relationship between this programme and rescEU, so that is a focus. Our commitment is to take a critical look at the coherence of that programme with other programmes. That is also in line with the BNC sheet that went to the Chamber. The Minister for Medical Care and Sport will discuss this further with the Chamber after the recess. Then there is the question of using the corona funds to avert climate change. The IMF and the International Energy Agency also say that investments should be used for renewable energy. Agreed. We are therefore also committed to green recovery. The Green Deal is the European Union's growth strategy. This is also reflected in the recovery package. We are positive about 30% climate-relevant investments in the MFF plus the recovery instrument together. We also welcome the principle that all EU expenditure should be in line with the Paris Agreement and the "do no harm" principle. We are focusing on reducing greenhouse gas emissions and not on the renewable energy sub-target, as we know. In the reform of the CAP, we are committed to making a contribution to the transition to circular agriculture. We focus on targeted payment for societal goals such as climate, living environment, biodiversity and animal welfare. We are critical of the proposed increase of 15 billion in the second pillar. And then I get to the Fisheries Fund. The interests of the fisheries sector have our full attention, also against the backdrop of Brexit. The Ministry of Agriculture is now working on the Dutch implementation of the Fisheries Fund. We want to start with that quickly. The discussion on the design of this scheme for fishermen takes place in the Agriculture and Fisheries Council. I will ask Minister Carola Schouten to pay particular attention to a timely availability, as I also heard Mr Bruins' question about additional funds for fishermen in the recovery instrument and whether that is not too slow. Finally, in this block on taxation. There is, I think, one more thing on the screen after a hopefully successful European Council, and that is the idea of recycled plastic. That's not tax. It's a different basis. So, in addition to the national income base, that base is used. The Netherlands could also live, I said earlier, with the ETS base, the current ETS patch that we now have, but it does not seem to fly in Europe. There are no proposals for European taxes on the table right now. This concerns other basic calculations for the national payments for recycled plastic. We are also generally reluctant to introduce new own resources, especially if this would lead to envelopes with silver stars. That, Mr President, in response to all the questions about the MFF.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u210	I would like to know about this critical attitude towards the common agricultural policy. Mr Anne Mulder of the VVD said that it was something from the 1980s and should no longer be the priority, but that it still does. The Prime Minister is critical of it and wants to focus more on circular agriculture. Now 30%, 35% of the total budget goes to the common agricultural policy. It really still has a disruptive effect on nature and on climate, because it promotes large farms and the further industrialisation of agriculture. The Prime Minister says he's critical. I asked whether this would mean that we would first look at what we could possibly take away from this common agricultural policy when we reprioritised, because it is not enough to take a critical attitude alone. We really need to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u211	Yeah, but I can't. That's what I just said. We'd love to, but we can't. In Europe there are very large countries, such as France and others, which think very differently. We have been trying to reform the CAP for some 20 years. If we had lost that whole pot of money in the European budget, we would be able to support our agriculture here much more in the right direction than we can do through that round pumping machine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u212	That is indeed the key point: to reform agriculture in the right direction. That hasn't happened yet, despite all the fine words. What I want to know from the Prime Minister is how the Netherlands is really going to change things. We're talking about an extra 15 billion that's being squeezed. We're critical of that. That's a little skinny when you see how terribly wrong it's been over the past few decades. What can the Netherlands actually do to ensure that things are moving in the right direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u213	By trying to build coalitions and get people to join us, but at the moment, of course, there is a powerful coalition in Europe of large Member States, east and west, but also south of Europe, which is blocking that. That's the way it is. As a result, one third of the European budget is old-fashioned. Yes, we can get angry about that, but of course it is inherent to an association of owners that the roof is sometimes repaired too early or too late. On this point, Mr Slootweg also had a question about the increase proposed by Michel: what does this mean for Dutch farmers? It is actually too early, I say in his direction, to see exactly what that means for Dutch farmers. The distribution of additional funds between Member States is not yet available. In addition, EUR 2.5 billion for Pillar Two has not yet been earmarked. But in general it is something that does not fit in with our cabinet policy in general simply does not. We say: do this with a lower expenditure ceiling. How this is going to work out will have to be demonstrated by the country envelope. They come only after the budget has been set. So we can't really anticipate that much. However, we are certainly concerned that there will be no such thing as genuinely important external convergence. I thought Mr Slootweg also referred to this. In my view, that is a point where the CDA and the cabinet are generally in line. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to turn to a few other questions. Brexit. What about the preparation of a no-deal? We now have a good map, I say to Mr Slootweg, of what measures are needed to be as prepared as possible for the end of the transitional period. You know: December 31st. Many preparations had already started in the previous phase. Contingence and preparation measures are now being converted into food aid measures before the end of the transitional period. It does depend on the outcome of the negotiations. This is also taken into account in information wherever possible. As promised by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the AO on the General Affairs Council of 10 June, a comprehensive overview of all preparations will be made by the end of the recess. Then there is the question of children and the programme for Greece. There is a terrible effort to find a sustainable solution to improve conditions for single children in Greece. COOVID-19 has led to delays. There are now concrete agreements and there are clearly identified partners on the Greek side. There is currently a Dutch delegation in Greece to speak with counterparts. That consultation's going well. We cannot guarantee at the moment that it will start in September, but it will start as soon as possible. So hopefully September, but at least as soon as possible. It is important to do this right at once. We want to ensure that we can support the children in Greece as soon as possible. There was another question about the conditions attached to the ESM instrument. I've already answered it. How are the discussions at the EU Summit used to make matters such as the Broadcast Directive, the Services Directive and the procurement directives work for Dutch workers? That is not on the agenda of this summit. It is really very focused on the MFF, but the European Commission is working on a multidisciplinary approach in the framework of platform work and will, in this context, focus on the Broadcast Directive and the opportunities for collective bargaining for the self-employed. We are currently using every opportunity to ensure that the Netherlands is involved in this process and that the Dutch situation is involved. This, of course, particularly affects the protection of workers and the self-employed. This is also in order to implement the motion tabled by Mr Palland and Mr Van Weyenberg during the general consultation onzzp'ers on 2 July. So he's leading the way. Peacestein. There are intensive discussions with the works council, but also with the province and the municipality and with the Ministry of EZK of Eric Wiebes. I'm involved in that myself. What you see now is that people are trying to change the plans. I do not want to say too much about this in public, but there are developments that are a little more positive, not yet positive, but more positive than a few weeks ago. In any event, within the prescribed period, the Chamber shall receive a letter on the execution of the motion for a resolution on this point. I did indeed speak with Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte on Friday about the single-limb collective action Clauses. This concerns the ESM Convention, the amendments of December 2019. We know that this is a sensitive issue in the Italian Parliament, but there are some sensitive issues here too. I also told him how important it is that this continues. He promised me he'd look at that again now, so we'll be in close contact. It is also important because that is a complete package, which also includes the backstop on the Single Resolution Fund, so how the ESM can function as a backstop on the SRF. Based on the idea that that should be midterm fiscally neutral, this is part of that bigger deal. And this was, of course, a component that is very essential for the Netherlands, so we discussed it on Friday. Then there is the question: how can a number of Member States make so little use of... We talked about that for a while. Look, SURE just got here by the Senate. So that must now become apparent how that is going to be used. And the EIB programme also needs some time to work out. So that wasn't used immediately, I get it. What surprises me is the 240 billion ESM programme. As I said, this is an interest rate advantage for Italy of 5 to 6 billion out of a total take-out of 38 billion. What seems to be involved in Italy itself, if you follow the Italian press, is that it has ESM conditionality. But the special thing is that in this program too, the only conditionality is that you have to spend it on out-of-pocket COVID-19-costs. So I brought that to the attention of the Italian Prime Minister on Friday, after I had seen Mr Wilders' sign, and it is being worked on in Italy. Mr President, then there is Mrs Kuiken's immigration pass. That's a fair point. I will not repeat the entire Dutch effort here; we all know it. It is true, and that is good news that the Commission will now present its communication on the new migration path in September. This will also be followed by legislation. We are very closely connected, lobbying behind the scenes. We are very keen to establish a future-proof asylum system at European level. But the fact is that things are very divided here in Europe, and certainly also between Eastern and Western Europe, and also between Eastern, Western and Southern Europe. So there are major contradictions, but I think we can gradually grow very carefully towards a little more consensus, because the debate is somewhat broader than the previous debates on this issue. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u214	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u215	Madam President. I can't reach it. The Netherlands in a major crisis, companies bankrupt, people lost their jobs, lives collapse, families in our own country in major financial problems. And then next Friday, at least the Prime Minister, we are going to talk about distributing EUR 750 billion into a recovery fund, while there is already an unused support fund of 540 billion. Of course, that's not gonna be used because they want gifts. They do not want loans at all, they want gifts in the South, and then we just want to give money to those countries. Countries, I told you, like Italy miss EUR 100 billion a year by not raising taxes or insufficient taxes, and as a result have inhabitants who are also three times richer than the Dutch. Who the hell is crazy that we're gonna give money to that, too? And today big news in Italy: the mafia has put tens of thousands of euros, in one place €45,000, into its own pocket; money earmarked for emergency aid to companies because of COOVID-19. Mafia boss Lino Greco, the money, the country is too rich, they have a mafia and they don't pay taxes; that's where the money goes. We're crazy. And Bulgaria... During this debate I received an e-mail from a woman from Bulgaria who lives in the Netherlands. She says: Mr Wilders, don't forget, we too are protesting against the corrupt government in Bulgaria, where European subsidies disappear in the pockets of corrupt politicians; that's where the money goes. Madam President. The receiving countries are going to scatter these gifts in their country, with our money. France: 8 billion for care workers. Italy: billions for a VAT reduction. Spain: introducing a basic income. My point is very simple: do it in the Netherlands. Spend that money in the Netherlands, not in southern Europe. Make sure that VAT is reduced here, make sure that we invest here in healthcare and eliminate our own risk. Make sure we lower taxes here. You were elected for this, for that Dutch voter, not for the voters in Italy, Portugal and Spain. But, Mr President, we have a Prime Minister who seems to have evolved from a eurocritical politician to a europhile member of D66 in recent years. Of course, that's incredibly bad. A Prime Minister who may oppose the conditions on Friday, but who is in principle simply in favour of a recovery fund and, therefore, of billions of loans and/or gifts to southern Europe. 'He'd better be', the British say, because yesterday Mr Conte was also visiting Mrs Merkel and if I may believe the international press 'Politico' is usually reliable, Conte threatens to. He's just threatening the so-called sleazy four. He is simply saying that if we do not get an agreement next weekend on the recovery package, which will mean 'the destruction of the single market', i.e. the destruction of the internal market, and that the financially stronger countries such as the Netherlands can face destruction of their currencies. This has been translated freely for a while. That's who we're dealing with. The Mafia is not only in southern Italy, but apparently also in a government there. Mr. Chairman. So the Prime Minister is not prepared to say that he is in any case vetoing that recovery fund. Hence the next motion, which I had already promised. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Prime Minister refuses to veto the recovery fund;]] [[whereas this is unacceptable;]] [[declares confidence in the Prime Minister,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1561]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u216	Mr. Chairman. Finally, if I may, I have one final point. Those are the values. The Prime Minister, together with D66's colleague, spoke disgrace about Poland, where homo-free zones were supposed to be discussed. He said it was a disgrace. Everyone with common sense agrees with that: that is shameful, that is disgusting. But I would ask the Prime Minister not to shop selectively. Check out Amsterdam on a Saturday night. Go check that out. There's gay-free zones there too, if they have the guts to walk hand in hand. Take a look in some neighbourhoods in Amsterdam, where you have almost Jews-free zones, at least if the Jewish community dare to walk on them with a yarmulke. They're getting beat up, they're getting called names, and that's because of the mass immigration you signed up for. It's fine to point to the Poles, but look at yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u217	Thank you. Mr Alkaya has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Prime Minister for replying. I have a number of motions, first of all on the reforms demanded by the Prime Minister of the South. He pretended it was real business reform proposals. I have argued that these are really deep political proposals. The Prime Minister acted as if he did not understand and said that liberal proposals were equivalent to sensible proposals. I have said that it is no coincidence that in the Netherlands a number of proposals from that package have not been adopted. That has to do with the political colour of the cabinet and the prime minister. That's what the next motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Cabinet, together with the governments of a number of other Member States, has taken the view that major economic reforms should be an important condition for financial support from the new "restoration fund";]] [[Whereas such conditions have been applied in the past to, among others, Greece and have had negative consequences for millions of Greeks;]] [[whereas strict conditions are most likely to result in cuts in the countries concerned, while cuts are currently unwise and are also excluded in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from imposing austerity or reform conditions on Member States in need of acute assistance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1562]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u219	Mr. Chairman. I also have a motion with Mr Stoffer of the SGP Group. It is about the size of the fund and its megalomaniac nature, while it is not clear what it should be spent on. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in addition to the negotiations on the new European multiannual budget, a so-called recovery fund of more than EUR 800 billion is currently being discussed;]] [[Considers that this amounts far too high in addition to the regular EU budget;]] [[whereas the European Commission has long had time to justify the need for this astronomical amount and to demonstrate the direct link of the proposed expenditure with the corona crisis, but this has not been sufficiently done;]] [[calls on the government not to agree to the next generation EU fund, until it is crystal clear how every euro spent directly relates to the corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1563]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u220	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to put to the vote a motion tabled by Mrs Leijten. That's the motion on 21501-20, no. 1530 on achieving greater transparency in the European Union's major summits of this kind, because it is still too little going on at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u221	Thank you, Mr. Alkaya. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks to the Prime Minister. There will be no motions from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Mr. Chairman. I noticed that the Prime Minister actually said a few times "I'm not hopeful" and "I'm gloomy." Of course, he doesn't say that for nothing. It may not necessarily be in its nature and something must really be going on. That is also what my second question is about: where are we, in fact, politically? He's been talking to all those protagonists for the past week. The Netherlands was also in such a beautiful group with some relatively small countries. I don't know if the Netherlands is still in that group, but that's what I hear... I see the Prime Minister nodding and we are still in it! That is good to hear, but perhaps the Prime Minister will be able to say something about that and about that force field later. He is very gloomy, but at the same time we hear the German Chancellor, who has been President of the European Union since 1 July, saying: we really must hurry. Before we go on summer vacation I'm just saying homely we have to be out of it, otherwise we'll be running out of time in September. Then the pandemic crisis can only deepen over the next few months without showing an adequate response. What does it look like about the Prime Minister? I mean not only in the next few days, but also in the slightly longer term, the weeks after that, he is apparently rather gloomy about the possibility of an agreement being reached this weekend. What does this political playing field look like this summer? If it is possible, I would like to hear from the Prime Minister in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u223	Thank you. Mr Jetten has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u224	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Prime Minister for replying. We are on the eve of an important European summit. How do we, as a Europe, invest ourselves out of the economic crisis created by this terrible corona health crisis? In my first term, I have already said that there is support from my group for the direction of the cabinet, namely that the restoration fund proposed by Michel is supported and that we will continue to focus on priorities for greening, digitisation and monitoring that rule of law. In this debate it became clear that the Dutch Government is prepared not only to look at loans from the corona repair fund, but also at subsidies to countries, provided that these countries also reform. Those countries need to reform in order to strengthen their own earning capacity and thereby contribute to a stronger European market. The question is, in particular, how are we going to assess the plans that the Member States are proposing to be eligible for subsidies rather than loans? I would like to say to the Prime Minister once again that the national parliaments must play a major role in this and that vetoing these subsidies must not delay recovery in the European Union. It is good to take a critical look at this with the European Commission and the Member States, but it is also important to continue to speed up the deployment of the recovery fund. The Prime Minister said a number of times that he was gloomy about the forthcoming European summit. But when I listen to what he says about the cabinet's position that subsidies can be discussed under conditions, it is actually already stated in Charles Michel's compromise proposal. Indeed, it states that conditions must be attached to subsidies to be provided. You could also conclude from this that there are possibilities for reaching a compromise in the next week or weeks. Finally, Mr President. Thank you to the Prime Minister for his commitment to work as hard for the importance of the rule of law as for monitoring the Dutch contribution to the European budget and the European recovery fund. I had already understood that the Prime Minister promised not to go to the negotiations with the book on Chopin this time. This seems to me to be an important signal to all our European partners that the Netherlands too is prepared to come out stronger together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u225	Thank you. Mr Wassenberg has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first concerns the common agricultural policy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government believes that funding for corona emergency aid should include funding within the European budget (reprioritisation within the MFF);]] [[Whereas the common agricultural policy (CAP) covers more than one third of the European budget;]] [[Whereas the CAP mainly helps large farms and leads to further industrialization of agriculture;]] [[whereas the CAP is also dated;]] [[calls on the government at the European Council to ensure that the CAP is the first to be called upon to finance corona emergency aid,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1564]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u227	This morning we were informed that the European Commission is going to spend money again to promote meat. We've asked questions about it before. Minister Schouten of LNV said she was actually very unhappy with it. But it is now going to happen very concretely with 7.5 million, because the European Commission therefore thinks that you should not take too much for meat substitutes, but simply eat pork. That's what the next motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission is launching a new campaign for the promotion of pigmeat in southern European countries;]] [[noting that this campaign is aimed at young people up to 30 years of age, as this group has started to eat less pork through reports on food safety, animal welfare and the environment;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet is not in favour of EU funding for the promotion of meat;]] [[calls on the Government to actively oppose European subsidies for meat promotion in Europe,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1565]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u228	Thank you. Yes, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u229	I had just forgotten something, and since some colleagues are asking me to do so, I think it is nice to say that I would like to have a roll-call vote on my motion of censure this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u230	Then everyone knows that. Okay. That is decent, indeed, so that colleagues can take that into account. Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u231	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers and wish him a good time at the European summit. In his answers he seemed to put me on the spot that I am the inventor of the gifts. Well, I'm not the inventor of those gifts. Loans are paramount. He made that clear himself. I would like to make it clear from this point of view that it is very important in the case of loans to set strict conditions and to use them for reforms, precisely because it increases public debt in certain countries. Thank you for the clear statement around the lower limit for the rule of law, the rule of law or law. That really came from the Prime Minister's toes. That's good to see. Thank you also for the commitment to limit the movement towards more European taxes as much as possible. Thank you also for the government's commitment to making the new fisheries fund available to our fishermen as soon as possible. This is important for the sector. Last but not least, Chopin's biography doesn't come with us. What goes along is the beautiful book of 100 years of Vredestein, which Mr Wilders, Mr Omtzigt and I have been offered to the Prime Minister. There are very nice pictures of the beautiful history of that company. Of course, that company has a wonderful future, too. It's a good thing the Prime Minister wants to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u232	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. Mr Stoffer has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u233	Mr. Chairman. Two motions and they read as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that at present an agreement on the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) is directly linked to an agreement on the Recovery Fund;]] [[Whereas the need to reach agreement on the MFF in the short term is greater than the need to reach agreement on the recovery fund;]] [[Considering that hasty decision-making on the recovery fund may be inadequate, inter alia, in relation to the conditionality and rule of law mechanisms of the recovery fund;]] [[Whereas, in view of the financial situation and budgetary space of European Member States, decisions on the recovery fund should be taken at a later date, for example in autumn 2020;]] [[calls on the Government to unveil the decision-making process on the MFF and the Recovery Fund, so that simultaneous decision-making on both matters is no longer a matter for discussion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1566]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u234	Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission has plans to create several new tax bases to increase the European Union's own resources;]] [[calls on the Government not to accept the European Commission's proposals to increase own resources through new tax bases, thus increasing national payments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1567]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u235	Finally, Mr President. I wish the Prime Minister strength on Friday and Saturday. Good luck, well, to some extent. And I'd say keep the back straight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u236	Thank you. Mr Azarkan has the floor on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Prime Minister for replying and to colleagues. I certainly have the impression, also from the Prime Minister's reply, that the fund is going to be there. I therefore have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that proposals have been made to spend several hundred billion euros from the European Commission to accelerate economic recovery;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to ensure that these resources are not used inefficiently according to the "money-seeking project" method;]] [[calls on the Government to ask for robust guarantees from the European Commission to assess the effectiveness of the recovery means, both ex-ante and ex-post, and to strengthen the role of the European Court of Auditors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1568]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u238	Mr. Chairman. I also have another motion. The Prime Minister indicated what progress had been made in taking care of the children on the Greek mainland. That is too slow for many Dutch people. For that reason, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to include 500 of the most vulnerable refugee children in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Kikk, Mr Alkaya and Mr Van Ojik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1569]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u239	That leaves me with a thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u240	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions on this weekend's meeting. My concern is, above all, how the Netherlands is dividing up and, by the way, how things are in the other countries, and that the benefits of the European Union do not end up in the country equally. But that is an internal Dutch debate that we will have to have again in the budget. Because there is no denying what VNO-NCW writes, namely that we have a great interest in a good outcome and that we have a great interest in healthy neighbouring countries and Member States in the European Union. But then it can't be that all these benefits stick with a particular group and aren't distributed among the rest of the population. Look at the elders. They must bear the burden, because then, under the previous cabinet, European legislation had to be respected. It is now being promoted as an export product that pensions need to be reformed in the rest of Europe. This means that there is no solidarity between generations, because it is affected by this type of proposal and we cannot support it. This is a debate which, although partly appropriate, should be discussed in the next Million and Throne Paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u242	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Slootweg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for his comprehensive reply. I was very pleased with the beginning, in which the balance was found between why you are actually a union and what solidarity means. Solidarity, in our view, always requires a kind of two-way traffic. I think the Prime Minister has explained this very clearly. I was also particularly pleased with the certainty with which he put down the rule of law, the rule of law, as a conditionality. In doing so, I think that he really paints the picture of how we can do it if things don't work out the way you want it to be. I think he has clearly defined his lower limit. The picture is perhaps he can confirm that this is not only a lower limit for him, but for several heads of government. I also welcome the answer to a number of questions on matters which are also part of a community of values such as the European Union, such as the social market economy and Peacestein. We'll wait and see, in confidence. This also applies to something like the Broadcast Directive. I still care about the terms. I would like to repeat once again that conditions are not there to bully a Member State. There are conditions to ensure that a country can come out better, that a country becomes stronger. I think that is what all these conditions are for. That has nothing to do with bullying a country. It is about giving perspective, often for young people in a country, some of whom have been unemployed for far too long. Finally, I would like to look forward to the replies on the budget. As I read the budget, I have the impression that some of the important objectives we have when it comes to modernisation, such as Frontex and Horizon, are being financed occasionally, but perhaps I am wrong. I'd like to be informed about that, because then I just misread it. It's possible. Finally, I am very content with the fact that the single-limb CACs have been covered. And why? Because this is also about what agreements you make with each other are worth, including agreements that are aimed at making a country, a Member State, stronger. That's it. I don't have any motions. I wish the Prime Minister every success or pleasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u244	Thank you. Mrs Kuik has the floor on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u245	Mr. Chairman. We were already talking about it, but of course it is a very serious subject. I want to thank the Prime Minister for his answers. I heard him say it's going to be a whole puzzle, we have to unravel things and we need time. At the same time, there is not an incredible amount of time, because you also want to act to keep those financial markets calm. We are used to making a nice deal at the hour, but if those markets are already restless and it doesn't make much sense whether the package should be much bigger or more generous, it has also missed its goal. I hope the Prime Minister agrees with me. With all our love, we will be back here in two weeks when it turns out that a final European summit is still needed in order to reach a good and solid package. Mr. Chairman. I do not see loans as realistic, at least not as principal, subsidies do. At the same time, a turn will have to be made. When I ask what conditions you would like to impose, it will be a repeat of it: I want pensions, I want working conditions... I want everything too. At the same time, the question is whether that is real. So I ask him to be flexible in his head and also to look at other conditions that you can impose, so that that money can be spent in a good way to get out of this crisis sustainably. I think that's really in our common interest. Mr. Chairman. It is good that the Prime Minister has made a very strong statement on the state of law. He has our support for that. We are very critical of the choices now being made in migration and development cooperation, also because the cabinet itself is not very generous in this respect. A health crisis and an economic crisis are really being followed by a hunger and migration crisis. I find it really unwise that we should not make any additional investments in this area, but that they now seem to be the child of the account. I don't think that's the idea. I wish him much wisdom. I wish him a great deal of solidarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u246	Thank you. Mr Van Haga has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u247	Mr. Chairman. As I said in the first term, I believe that the Prime Minister in Brussels should say no to the recovery package. In the event that the Prime Minister does not do so and yet will be negotiating, we must also be realistic. I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the EU is about to grant EUR 750 billion in grants and loans;]] [[Notes that countries receive money on the basis of three criteria, namely population size, gross domestic product per capita and unemployment rate between 2015 and 2019;]] [[whereas, for example, Italy will receive billions of aid while the per capita capital in Italy is higher than in the Netherlands;]] [[whereas, for example, Poland will receive billions of aid while that country is hardly affected by the corona crisis;]] [[calls on the Government to reject the proposed criteria at the forthcoming EU Summit and to call for criteria that reflect the actual situation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1570]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u248	Otherwise, I agree with Comrade Stoffer, who said to the Prime Minister: keep his back straight in Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u249	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'm looking at the Prime Minister. Ten minutes? Seven? Well, I'd say five minutes. I see the pensions shift already appearing. We'll suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u250	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u251	Mr. Chairman. First, on the increase of Horizon and Frontex. This increase is for the entire MFF period and is totally independent of the 190 billion that is foreseen as additional expenditure on top of the normal MFF in the recovery package. So it is real money that comes from the next MFF in the proposals as they now lie in the different negotiating boxes. That was one case that was still open. Let's talk about Poland. I took a look at it. For Poland, the difference between the original proposal and the present one is quite considerable. Poland remains high on the list, but what Poland gets will decrease by a quarter. It goes down from 26.8 billion to 20.6 billion. It is one percent or 22, 23 less, so almost a quarter less than Poland previously received. That would be if we were to get out of it. It's all not yet finished, because everything is being negotiated, that you go from 100% on the basis of unemployment expenditure to 70% unemployment and 30% on the basis of the real decline in national income over the period 2021-2022. Mr. Chairman. Then there was Bram van Ojik's question about the playing field. For most people, the Multiannual Financial Framework is primarily a matter of money, regardless of the rule of law that we have to guard. We have a broadly shared lower limit that we don't want to go under. Of course, we are also making a number of efforts to modernise further, but it will be mainly a money-sharing issue. The Netherlands really has a big apple to peel there. There's still a big hole of 600 million. Of course, that's far less than the billions that threatened, but this is still a hole. We're gonna try to cover that up as much as we can. That should be soluble in itself. If you remove another 10 billion from the last Commission proposal, you're almost there. At 1.05, 1.07, you can still do that again without causing any damage, I think. But it's complicated, because you're gradually in all kinds of pain limits. The second problem, of course, is that all kinds of countries want these subsidies, when we have said: then you really have to reform far-reachingly; at the moment when a first payment is made, we want to be able to determine whether you have reformed. I have to say that until now this is not flying and that countries say: then it is not. Then it's still loans, and they don't want to. That's why I'm so gloomy. So you're probably landing on loans only, and we don't want to, because that's not enough for whole countries. When they say 'you have to go to subsidies' and when we say 'you have to make sure that you carry out all these reforms and that we can control them', they say that we are interfering with their national sovereignty, this and that and that and that and that. But it is also our sovereignty that a subsidy is a commitment of the Dutch parliament to give a piece of money to country X, Y or Z. May we also perhaps conclude that that has happened? These are two very large fish to fry: the question of the payments in the classic MFF and the conditionality on the loans and possibly subsidies. I have to say, based on the conversations in the last few days, I don't see it happening. But we're gonna check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u252	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u253	I think that this was actually the answer to the questions raised by Mr Jetten and Mr Bruins, who are certainly not inventors of anything. I think we find what's there, all of them, very broad, a bit tedious. But these could be ways to keep it all manageable. I'm getting to the motions. The motion in part No. 1561 I advise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u254	The motion in part No. 1561 is in the Chamber, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u255	I'm sorry, but I do have an opinion on it. I believe this is now the 25th. Slowly, I'm going to celebrate an anniversary. Then the motion to part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). For acute assistance, there is already the Eurogroup package, with other SURE and the co-vid package ESM. The recovery fund is linked to longer-term reforms. It is therefore not the case that these loans or, if necessary, those subsidies will suddenly be available tomorrow. On balance, therefore, I must discourage the motion. Then the motion to part No. 1563. Look, what the Netherlands wants is a fund that focuses very much on the covidimpact. In the end, it is about making countries emerge stronger from the crisis. This means: strengthening economies. That goes beyond the relationship that is laid down in this motion. So I think the motion is too tight. That's why I wouldn't advise her. Then the Wassenberg/Van Raan motion in part No. 1564. The corona emergency aid comes from the April package, which is 540 billion. We are now, of course, talking about economic recovery through the recovery fund. That means I want to dissuade this motion in the end. The motion in part No. 1565 is untimely. It's not on the agenda. I would say: do it next time with Mrs Schouten, because I really have no idea. I couldn't check everything as soon as possible, but at least it's not something that's going on Friday and Saturday. So I'd say hold the motion. If you put her to the vote, I'm gonna have to dissuade her from being safe because I have no idea what I'm gonna fall for. I get what the motion on part number is. 1566 says split it. I have no objection to that at all, strictly speaking. I suddenly see the pension spokesmen sitting here! The odds of that happening are zero, because everyone is linking it politically. It's politically linked. We in the Netherlands do not get our way on one hand if we do not try to get our way on the other. So you have to pair it up. I think splitting up is politically unwise. I would therefore advise against the motion, because I think it is simply no longer possible to cut those two loose. Then the motion to part No. 1567 by Mr Stoffer and Mr Alkaya. We have no objection to this plastic and ETS base. It's not a tax, it's a base, just like you have the base national income. So you're not gonna send an envelope to people. It's financially beneficial for us. Last time, I was talking about taxes. I saw Mr Jetten twittering cheerfully: Rutte is in favour of European taxes. No. I've corrected that now. I don't like that at all. This is a base, not a tax. Here I have corrected that, also towards my own party. But I would advise against this motion. The motion in part No. Mr Azarkan gave a ruling on 1568. This really is the Dutch commitment. Then the motion to part No. Mr Azarkan c.s. We are working on a different plan, so I would like to advise against this motion with reference to all the debates on it. The motion in part No. I would advise against 1570 by Mr Van Haga and Mr Stoffer, because it is not possible to set up the criteria completely again. We will continue to work on different weighings. Think of the unemployment rate, which is weighing less heavily, and the decline in national income. That 70/30 distribution's pretty good now. You can already see the effects on Poland: Poland would lose 6 billion if this were to be the case. The motion in part No. So 1570 I'm deceiving.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u256	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-2.u257	That concludes this debate. We shall be voting on the motions tabled tonight. I thank the Prime Minister. We're gonna be done right in time. Very good. Furthermore, as many Members of Parliament have done, I wish you every success in the coming days.
