ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u1	The next item is the proposal for a temporary provision for the 1995 National Patent Act in connection with the outbreak of COVID-19.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u2	I call Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u3	Thank you, Mr President. The world is waiting with sorrow for a vaccine or a cure for the corona virus. At a speed which until recently we considered almost unthinkable, work is being done, research is being carried out and tests are being carried out to arrive at a medicine and/or vaccine as soon as possible. When that is discovered, it is important that it is made available to everyone: poor and rich, wherever you live and whoever you are. It must be available and accessible to everyone; it must of course also be affordable for everyone. The examples of the tricks the pharmaceutical industry is doing to maximize its own profits are well known. This is the same industry that is now also cooperating in the development of a vaccine. It is a good thing that industry is doing so, but it is not good that the pharmaceutical industry has increased profit margins in recent years by focusing more and more on engaging in lucrative financial constructions rather than on the development of medicines. In no sector are profit margins so high. I'm not saying that to be unkind, I'd rather see it differently too, but because this is the context in which the development of a vaccine and/or a drug against the coronavirus takes place. And that means that is the conclusion of the Labour Party that we should be on our guard. We must ensure that the interests of public health are protected, and I refer to affordability and accessibility. We can use a number of resources to do this. Mr. Chairman. One of these means is to issue a so-called compulsory licence. This means that if a vaccine or a medicine has been developed, the government can, in the general interest, authorise third parties to produce a medicine for an acceptable fee. So that means that we have more options than just the one pharmaceutical, to be able to develop a drug. Mr. Chairman. Now I'm going to ask this minister something difficult. That's what I'm gonna say right away. Because he's got to be... How am I supposed to say that nicely? I'm gonna give up some of his power. It is the Minister of Economic Affairs who can issue such a compulsory licence. I would argue that the Minister of Health should also be allowed to issue such a compulsory licence in the interests of public health. To this end, I have tabled an amendment to this temporary state law. I have done so because I believe that we must ensure that all the possibilities of making a vaccine or a medicine available to the people of our country are seized. The government has already taken some good steps by participating in a patent pool in which all knowledge and research is gathered. The World Health Organisation manages that. But I think it's good to add an extra security. Germany and Canada, not the least countries and also our friends, have recently amended their patent laws in order to be able to quickly and effectively invoke those compulsory licences. So my request to the cabinet is very simple. It's a good thing there's the possibility of a compulsory license. My appeal is: not only do this option with the Minister of Economic Affairs, but let him share it with the Minister of the United States of America, who, in the interests of public health, can judge whether a compulsory licence is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u4	An interruption by Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u5	I do not think I need to explain to Mrs Ploumen what the law we are dealing with tonight is really about. That has little to do with the current situation surrounding the coronavirus. I therefore find it a little unfortunate that she is taking this opportunity to say something about the use of compulsory licences in general, a possibility that exists. In one of her amendments, she also refers to it herself, Article 57 of the Rijkpatentwet. So that possibility already exists. So why now use this opportunity of a good temporary law to argue something that a can and b might even weaken what is already possible, namely by not looking at the public interest anymore but at just one interest?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u6	First, that last point. I think Mr Veldman is wrong when he says that there is only one interest left. I say that for many people at the moment the importance of public health has never weighed so heavily. Apart from that, I do not advocate taking it away from the Minister of Economic Affairs. No, I say: take it up with the Minister of Health and also give the Minister the option to call for such a compulsory licence. And then the question of why I'm taking this opportunity. Yeah, I'm doing my job for the good of the Dutch. I'm looking for ways to ensure that a vaccine or medicine will be available to everyone. The government has a role in that, I think. I would like to strengthen that role of the government and encourage the cabinet to make use of that possibility, if it believes that this is the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u7	We share that goal. I think we all want a vaccine to be developed that will help us fight the corona virus, which will be accessible and available to everyone. We share that goal. The nice thing is also that Mrs Ploumen's proposals are not going to help us to say that all the major pharmaceutical companies in the world that are currently conducting research have already said: if we have developed something and it works, then we are going to make it available at cost price. They also see the importance of our public health. They too see the importance of doing this together. That's not gonna change anything about the compulsory licence, so what's the added value of limiting it to one goal? And if you applied that limitation, shouldn't you have looked a little wider? You are now proposing to include the Minister of Health in this, so that he can also make an assessment. Well, if you broaden it so much and stop looking at the public interest, I wonder why you didn't mention the Minister of Agriculture? Vaccines are also being developed for animals, for animal health. I think that's important, don't you? Is it not much wiser, then, in the end, to weigh up the general interest of Article 57, as we have done in the Rijkpatentwet, and to lay down the responsibility of the Minister for Economic Affairs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u8	I sincerely hope, with you and a lot of people, that if there is a vaccine or a medicine, the pharmaceutical industry will indeed make it available to everyone in the world at cost. I sincerely hope so. And if so, I'm the first to applaud. However, experience has shown that this is not how it works. Experience has shown that shareholders will continue to press to maximise the profit model of the pharmaceutical industry. That is why I think we should seize every opportunity. I would like to add the following to Mr Veldman's remarks. History has taught us something. Just the mere fact that a compulsory licence can be invoked can make sure that the person who would have to address it, to put it bluntly, sometimes just that one push gets in the right direction and sometimes just that one CEO who wants to stand up to his shareholders gives a means to say: let us do the right thing now, before we are forced to do the right thing. Let me now turn to the point about the Minister for Agriculture. Two weeks ago, Mr Futselaar was also here, I believe we debated the outbreak of the coronavirus in mink-farming. That is, of course, a horror for the people who keep mink, because they can no longer move freely themselves. We then discussed, also on the proposal of Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals, how important it is that not only the Minister for Agriculture has something to say about what the next actions are, but also the Minister for Agriculture. He was therefore also present at that debate. So when we are in a health crisis, it seems to me very appropriate to involve precisely that minister who deals with the health of all of us. Hence my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u9	Finally, Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u10	The aim of Mrs Ploumen is becoming clear. So it's really just about pricing a vaccine. Therefore, where the pharmaceutical companies have said that they are simply going to make it available at cost, the objective is actually to do something about that price. Then you use the wrong instruments, because a compulsory licence is not primarily intended to do something about the price. You have a compulsory licence in case that company X, which may have developed something, indicates that it itself does not have enough capacity to do it, but is not willing to share it. Then you can use a compulsory licence to ensure that others, who do have the capacity to produce, can also produce it. It doesn't say anything about pricing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u11	I have a number of cases in which compulsory licences play a role. In 2016, Colombia issued a compulsory licence because Novartis offered a drug that can help leukemia patients at a crazy price on the Colombian market. Colombia has said: in the interests of public health, we believe that this medicine should be available, including for the people of Colombia with leukaemia. So that's when they applied for a compulsory license. They were, of course, attacked by all kinds of parties, but they did and they were also right. I take this example from an article I wrote together with Edith Schippers in 2016 for The Lancet, in which we say that the system of drug development as we now have is actually bankrupt and in which we say: let's look for alternative possibilities. A compulsory licence is not necessarily the preferred route, but in this case the law is now in front of............................................................................................................................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u12	Thank you. I call Mr Veldman of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u13	Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that we are talking about the legislative proposal before us this evening, because entrepreneurs are having a hard time. Many entrepreneurs are suffering from uncertainty about how long the corona virus will remain among us and what consequences that will have for their business. I understand that very well. You'll just be an entrepreneur and see that the company you've been working hard on for years will come to a halt because of the corona crisis, with all the consequences. You'll only have just started a business and you'll see that your dream, which you intended to accomplish, threatens to fall apart because orders are dropping. Or you'll only have an innovative company that has applied for a patent for a wonderful innovation, but come to the conclusion that because of the corona crisis you temporarily don't have the resources to renew the patent on innovation. That's a nightmare. These entrepreneurs deserve our support. It is therefore good to see that the cabinet is working with man and power on measures to help entrepreneurs in these difficult times. It is also good to see that the Cabinet is not only working on the much-needed financial measures, but is also further considering and working on measures that help entrepreneurs in other ways. This bill is a good example of that. This law is a solution to the last example I have just mentioned, the innovative patented entrepreneur. The purpose of this bill is to prevent them from automatically withdrawing patents. To achieve this, the Director of the Netherlands Patent Centre is given the opportunity to suspend legal time limits for patents. This law also provides for the amount owed to economic operators to apply for or renew the patent, for as long as this is necessary at zero. This provides certainty for entrepreneurs in order to continue to develop the innovation that our country needs. This is good for the Dutch economy and therefore for our employment. Mr President, I will conclude. The corona crisis requires creative solutions. This law is such a creative solution. The VVD will therefore also support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u14	Thank you. I'll see if I can get him straight on with the answer. That is the case, so the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u15	Mr. Chairman. In all sincerity: I found it extremely pleasant to hear Mrs Ploumen's enthusiastic voice again. I recognize that from a few years ago. She invites me to give up power, but this is what she remembers from a few years ago: I am not after power. There's one cabinet. There is a unit of government policy. There is no change of power when part of a power moves to another ruler. That doesn't make the government stronger. Nor is it the case that the Minister for Medical Care regards this transfer or broadening as an enrichment of his portfolio, because he knows that we use the powers together in a cabinet. I'll be right back on those powers. The government is not getting stronger in this respect. The beauty of the Dutch system is precisely that unity of government policy. We also sometimes see other countries where you hear a very different story from one ruler to another. That's what we're avoiding. We strengthen each other in the use of our own and each other's powers. So we do not need to amend our legislation, as the Canadians and the Germans have had to do. The amendments to documents Nos. 8 and 9 are unnecessary, because my colleague, too, can have the powers that I formally have through the unity of cabinet policy. I would argue that the use of this not broad competence would also be undesirable, because it means that there is explicitly no broader consideration. That complete consideration is what we have to do. That too is a beauty of the Dutch system. Focused on the public interest, we weigh everything. Not only do we have the polder for that, but it also happens in the cabinet. I also think that it would not be entirely appropriate to push through a heavy piece like a compulsory licence under such an emergency law. It is well known that there is a committee working on this extremely complex issue. It affects the efforts that companies are still willing to do to conduct research. Mrs Ploumen just gave the example of the one CEO who needs another boost. This would be just the one CEO that could push you to say, "Let me keep the research money in my pocket," because I don't see any perspective here. The fact that this might not have played any part in the trade-off for a country like Colombia does not mean that it does not matter to us. I think Mrs Ploumen agrees with me that the Netherlands is extremely difficult to compare with Colombia. All in all, I have to do with the amendments to the Nos. 8 and 9 dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u16	Both amendments have been dissuaded. I call Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u17	Short. To be honest, I am not as impressed by arguments such as 'just under this emergency law' and 'it has to be in a different way'. It's in parliament. It is important to seize the opportunities to improve laws for the better. I do. This legislation is being adapted in the context of the corona crisis. Mr Veldman also spoke about this, albeit from a different perspective. Also when it comes to compulsory licences, you can see that in the context of this crisis. I would like to ask the Minister under what circumstances he considers it conceivable that, as a minister who can issue such a compulsory licence, he should initiate a discussion in the cabinet on the issue of a compulsory licence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u18	I think that's a very hypothetical question. Let me say that I cannot now list the particular circumstances in which this should lead. I think that's an all too hypothetical question. It's too abstract.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u19	If it is too abstract even for Mr Wiebes, then I have reached a level! I didn't think I could match him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u20	It worked anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u21	Why it is important to give a voice to the VWS Minister is precisely because the VWS Minister can initiate a discussion from the point of view of public health. Of course, that governor then weighs the opinion and discusses it with other members of the cabinet. That's the way it's supposed to be. What matters to me is that, in the nature of the case, the perspective of the Minister for Economic Affairs, the public health perspective, is different from that of the Minister for Economic Affairs. That is a determination and not a value assessment of how to weigh one or the other. It is precisely in this crisis that I would say: let us seize every possible way to bring the perspective of public health into our legislation, into our regulations and into the discussions in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u22	It is quite clear that these perspectives are different. Exactly because they are different, an integral consideration is the recipe and a partial consideration is not wise at all. That is precisely why it must be an integral consideration. I think the Minister for Medical Care knows very well that he can initiate all kinds of discussions in all areas. That's what happened in the context of corona. It is no secret that departments have worked together in the provision of medical devices, for example, and that the Minister for Medical Care has played a very important role in this, but that this has also played a role in the field of EZK. So initiatives can always be taken by anyone, but precisely because of Mrs Ploumen's point, that the prospects are different must be an integral consideration here. And it's possible within the cabinet unit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u23	Finally. I have just heard the example of the problem of mink farming, in which not only the Minister of Agriculture has a responsibility, but also the Minister of Health has a directing position, some say even one with perseverance. The same is true of my proposal to secure a position for the Minister of Health in these compulsory licences. I would say that if there is an integral weighting, as Minister Wiebes says, then it should be no problem at all to share the granting of that licence with others. But I don't think we can agree on this. I hope that the Chamber will support my plea for the accessibility of a vaccine and a medicine against corona, because I believe that the means of compulsory licensing, used from the public health perspective, will help us to do so if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u24	I have listened with pleasure to Mrs Ploumen's closing statement. It notes that we may not agree on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u25	Then we have reached the end of the first term of office. I'm gonna take a look at the room and see if we need another round. No, that's not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u26	We will vote next week on the amendments and the law.
