ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u1	I now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg, on behalf of the CDA, for her questions on drug trafficking by post. The questions are put to the Minister for Justice and Security, whom I would like to welcome. I call Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "The Netherlands is developing as the post office of drugs," headlined the Algemeen Dagblad last week. I'm always completely embarrassed when I read that, I have to tell you honestly. We are already the weed shed of Europe and the pilldrivers of the world. The Mexicans are trying to teach us how to produce crystal meth. And now we're on our way to becoming the post office of the drugs. It is not for nothing that the German police sounds the alarm: more and more drugs are smuggled into their country via mail packages sent from the Netherlands. It's thousands of envelopes. According to the police spokesperson, we are currently considering all kinds of clever techniques to be able to track drugs quickly. I would like to know from the Minister whether he can say anything about that, because the question arises as to what the police need from us. What possible additional powers do they need? For example, we know that the letter secret is a limiting factor. It still seems that mail sent within Europe, especially through PostNL, is almost impossible to control. The secret of the letter is blissful, while other companies seem to be able to break it much easier. The Post Act would be a hiccup. Is that still true? The police say that if a drug dog hits a suspicious package, a huge tour must be pulled before such a mail package can actually be opened. The judge commissioner, for example, needs to be brought in. Of course, that's not doing on this scale. Now the national post intervention team of the police is already doing very well. They're intercepting large numbers of drugs. That's sad, of course, but they can do it. For that, we would like to compliment them. They also point out that it is important to identify before anything can be sent. Mr Van Dam, also here in the Chamber, has argued for this on several occasions. The minister didn't want to do that. I wonder whether the Minister really wants to take the step that people who want to send something simply have to identify themselves. If I buy a pair of new shoes and pick them up at a pickup point, I'm just gonna have to legitimize myself. But in this beautiful country, you can send a bunch of drugs, and not a rooster that crows at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u3	I call the Minister for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. I do not think I need to talk for long about the fact that this post of hard drugs is an extremely worrying and harmful development. I am not going to discuss this in detail. It's about how you handle this as well as possible. The member Van Toorenburg already pointed to the Post Intervention Team, the PIT, in which it also collaborates with private parties. That focuses on smart and targeted controls. I would also point out that we have done a pilot at the Dutch Customs Office, which was aimed at specific destination countries. Hundreds of drug seizures were carried out there in the outgoing mail of parcel shipments to countries outside the EU. That pilot's been a positive one, I have to say. That sounds a little crazy, but at least he has given very clear results. We are now moving on to how we can detect this in an innovative way. I will come back to that in a moment as part of the Multidisciplinary Intervention Team, the MIT, not to be confused with the PIT. But first, this. Currently, a court commissioner's authorization is required for the opening of packages. Mrs Van Toorenburg rightly points out that this is in practice a delay factor. We're going to modernise the Code of Criminal Procedure. Then this will no longer be necessary, as the qualified on-the-spot investigative officer will then be able to issue that package-opening authorisation. I'm gonna get back to that MIT. That includes all the services, including Customs, Public Prosecutor's Office, the police, the police, the police and the IRS. I have, as you know, put a lot of extra money into shaping that and getting to work on it. Because what's really the most important thing is, and now it's time to sit up front and have a good information position. The pilot points that out, too. You have to know that's where it's gonna happen and that's where we can intercept most of the packages. As far as the ID is concerned, there's a point. We're watching that. I have just informed you of this in an answer to a question to your Chamber. However, I would like to say quite frankly that we are talking in general about 600 million packages on an annual basis. So that would really create an administrative burden. My people are right to say that they really want to sit in the front and get to work as much as possible. If you do not call me wrong, Mr President, I would like to put some sort of profit warning on that, but we will take this point with us. I myself, as Minister of Justice and Security, believe that we should focus on these matters. Surely something like the letter secret will trigger a discussion in society, in which a lot of citizens who have never done anything wrong with the mail and just a package for their grandchild, or I know a lot of what I want to send, could rightly say: wait a moment; is that proportional? I would certainly like to have that discussion with your Chamber, but I am very committed to improving the information position so that they know it all in the front. And, indeed, when we change the criminal procedure, let us just make sure that the investigating officer can do it himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. We've got the PIT and the MIT and in the meantime we're just in the shit. That's just the way I put it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u6	There!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u7	Because what is happening is that we are now being told from Germany that loads and loads of drugs are crossing the border. And I understand that the Minister doesn't want that duty of identification, but it's very simple to just legitimize the moment you send a package? You're gonna have to identify yourself properly when you pick it up, aren't you? What's so hard about that? Of course, criminals can take advantage of that, all of which is true, but I think it is and-and-and-and-and-so. It is very good that the Minister states that he wants to take a step forward in terms of the Code of Criminal Procedure. My colleague Chris van Dam has repeatedly argued in favour of this. That is what the Minister is doing. But I think it is really important that we look, and quickly, whether people should not legitimise themselves, and that this legislation on the secret of letters should be amended on this point. If commercial companies in their almost race to the bottom are always saying so, and rightly so; all cheaper and faster....................................................................................................................................................... Why can't they just say: if you send a package to us and a drug dog sits on it or barks or whatever they do at the time, then we just open it up; done is Kees. We are becoming a disgrace in Europe, and I want to do everything in my power to do so, and I know that the Minister also wants to do so in order to stop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u8	Mr. Chairman. Let's get back to the points of duty of identification and letter secrecy. I have already said and indicated in the answer to the questions that we are examining this at the moment. I just posted a fair profit warning. And then we'll have to talk to each other, your room and I, about how real that is and what that's gonna bring. Because, like your Chamber, I want us to tackle this problem firmly and to achieve a good result. Well, for that, the most important thing, as the services tell me, is that we have our information position at the front as strong as possible. In addition, I have to admit that the abbreviation "S.H.I.T." A team that doesn't belong to me, but okay. But really, the most important thing is that we are not alone with postal packages. You are also in the port with containers and such, and then you have the whole lot about large quantities. And I have now put in a lot of structural 150 million a year to improve the information position. I shall return to the letter secret and, at least, to the duty of identification when we have made further inquiries into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you. I hear the Minister's taking the ideas. I think that's important. I see him fighting that fight, too. It is very important that he has also made additional resources available for this purpose. But I see this merely as an incentive, because really, we just don't want to be at the top of the world's list in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u10	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. Then I have Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV, Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD and Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u11	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure is, of course, a sham, because that is going to take at least another decade. So that's not gonna do us any good. Nor does the secret of letters; it is simply stated in the Constitution that this can only be broken by order of the judge. So I would like to hear from this Minister, because next year there will be elections and whether he will be bringing the proposal to the Chamber within that time, so that we can talk about the duty of identification and the secret of letters. Now it's stuck in the air.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u12	Mr. Chairman. I would like to say that I am going to make every effort to get back to the issue of the duty of identity; indeed I am going to do so in time for the elections, so let me say at the end of this year. Because I think that's a point we should discuss with each other: do we want to do this? I think that, on the issue of letter secrecy, Mrs Helder is right to point out a very basic point that I mentioned, without referring directly to the Constitution. And that's a lot of stuff, let me put it this way... more complicated issue, so I don't know if we're ready for that. As far as the Code of Criminal Procedure is concerned, when I come to the end of this year, I think I will come back to a number of points that we have raised from the private and public partners, including the duty of legitimacy, on the issue of "Judge Commissioner" now, who is to give an authorisation and what can be accelerated in that process. 'Cause I take that seriously, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u13	Maybe this doesn't quite fit in with this question, but it's about drugs and drug nuisances. The waste is regularly dumped in the woods. I am getting more and more disturbing e-mails from the so-called green boas, extraordinary investigators. They would be armed, which has been promised to the Chamber, but that has not yet been done. The boas who did have weapons, and who are therefore regularly confronted in forests with, let us say, crime figures, have lost their weapons. What is the Minister going to do to reverse this as quickly as possible, so that they have the right weapons to defend themselves at least?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u14	Two things about that. I announced in June that we will start with a number of pilots for the expansion of the arms of boas. In addition, on the subject of Velsen, among other things, I have said that I want to give more space to the boas, the municipalities, the local authorities, and so on, but that really lies with the local authorities. I hope to be able to collect security and police from the national consultation shortly how this is now in practice. I can return to your Chamber after I have heard what the findings are. But I cannot intervene myself, as you understand, because that is not my competence, but I will come back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u15	In June, the Minister also promised to return to the green boas separately. That was a commitment to the VVD. It is estimated that 9,000 drug packages per month are involved. In replying to our written questions, from the VVD but also from the SP and the PvdA, months ago, I read these answers, but I still miss the urgency and also the speed with which this is being taken up. I hear the Minister saying that our information position is the most important thing. Then I see in the answers to our questions that the Minister says that there is no record of how many packages are intercepted from the Netherlands abroad. So now we do not need EUR 150 million for this information position. We can work on that now. How are you gonna keep up with that? How do we make sure we know what this is about and actually take action?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u16	I just got the answer. On pages 6 and 7, I have detailed, up to the kilos, the contents of packages and kilos of synthetic drugs and other things. I do agree with Mrs Yeşilgöz that we still have to look at each other. I am, of course, also dependent on cooperation through Europol and INTERPOL.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u17	The Netherlands is the drug barn of the world when it comes to the production of drugs. We are now also the international post office for sending a drug package: 9,000 drug packages per month. That is surely the pinnacle of standardisation. We see this normalization of drug use as a major problem. People don't feel any hesitation in sending a drug package like that either. There is an approved motion by the Christian Union and the CDA to counter this normalization of drug use and that drug culture in the Netherlands, in which the government is invited to make concrete proposals for this. What has the Minister done so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u18	I have to be careful here, because that is, of course, primarily in the area of my colleague, the Secretary of State of the United States of America, Mr Blokhuis. Clearly, in my undermining policy, I have chosen to make a real commitment to everything related to the production, trade and transit of hard drugs. I agree with what Mrs Van der Graaf says, but I believe that is well known to me. This is really something that is beginning to eat away at the foundations of our society. Last week's articles also demonstrated the extent to which certain forms of corruption are found in them. You know that there is still a very large investigation into a large number of encrypted messages from organisations. We're gonna bet primarily on that point. As far as normalising is concerned, I can tell Mr Blokhuis, but that is primarily his area.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u19	Good. Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u20	Let us see that this is very close to our hearts by bringing two spokesmen to these oral questions. We have been asking questions on this issue for years. I'd like to ask the Minister one question. He says it's 600 million packages a year, or something in that order of magnitude. But let's face it, there are all the packages from the Wehkamp, the Zalando, all the underwear, shoes and summer dresses. Of course, that's not the point. It is those packages that are delivered to the construction market by some dark figure. So isn't it possible to separate the big numbers and really focus on the offer of packages that we're talking about and issue a duty of identification?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u21	Again about that, we are running this out. So I will also come back to the question of intelligent ways of resolving the barriers to public-private cooperation in this area. I'm not an expert. All I know is that it's such a quantity of packages. I'm not gonna take that out in advance. We all know that in Tintin something is also packed in a very neat package that may not be at all neat. I don't know if that's happening here. I just want that to be well figured out so that we can deal with this with each other in a targeted way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u22	When will you inform the Chamber about this when it's sorted out?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u23	I will return to that at the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u24	Thank you. That also brings us to the end of this oral Question Time. I thank the Minister.
