ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law of Mr Verhoeven and Mr Jetten declaring that there is grounds for considering a proposal to amend the Constitution to include provisions on membership of the European Union (35202). I would like to welcome the two initiators. They are supported in Box K by Mrs Veerle Brink, policy officer at the D66 Group and Mr Joost Westerweel, official at the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I also welcome, of course, the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. It will act as an advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The continuation of the debate will be scheduled at a later date in consultation with the initiators. I will allow two interruptions per group in two instalments or four separate questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u2	I would now like to give the floor to Mr Schonis, who will speak on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No matter how you look at the European Union, no one can deny that we face the fact that the Netherlands is a member of the European Union at all times in our daily lives. The bottle of wine, the fresh mozzarella and the peppers you buy in the supermarket are on the shelves because we have one European market. The drugs you're taking have European approval. Even the Roggenplaat in the Oosterschelde, where I was on my way here this morning, is kept in place with money from the European Union. We do not all feel the same about the role played by the European Union in this house. It even leads to heated discussions in this room on a regular basis. However, we all recognise that the European Union, as a layer of administration, has an important role to play in our daily lives. We see that European law goes directly through our legal system. People can appeal to a Dutch judge for rights derived from European laws and regulations. We have transferred some powers to European level, such as our monetary policy. As a national legislator, this house is far from always on its own. In short, the EU has a major influence on the lives of Dutch citizens and is now without doubt one of the main elements of our state system. Yet the European Union is not mentioned in our Constitution. That is strange, especially when the importance of the European Union for the Netherlands and our legal system is so great. Our country was one of the founding fathers of the European Union. Mr. Chairman. The idea of anchoring EU membership in our Constitution is not new. In the 1990s, a motion was tabled and adopted by the PvdA, GroenLinks and D66 in the Senate. Several state committees then advised on this. First of all, let me ask this question: how is it that this has not been settled and why is it necessary now? I can imagine that all this has to do with the Brexit. In the United Kingdom, last week, we see that the chaos and uncertainty surrounding the Brexit increase. This leads to long traffic jams at Calais and, even now, considerable economic damage is expected, apart from the deal to be concluded this month. As far as D66 is concerned, that's a real doomsday scenario. D66 notes, however, that our membership of the EU currently has no legal guarantee in our Dutch law. Several European countries, for example, have a specific procedure for exiting the Union. The Netherlands doesn't know it. By including EU membership in the Constitution, that guarantee will be created. Only by a constitutional change can our country then decide to leave the Union. The Brexit has made clear the importance of a clear procedure and sufficient democratic legitimacy in a decision to retire. I have another question about that. Under the European Treaty, retirement is only through the use of Article 50. Is it true that, when this bill is introduced, the Article 50 procedure can only be initiated after constitutional change? Democratic legitimacy is an important basis for government action for D66. When we include membership of the European Union in the Constitution, parliamentary involvement in EU decision-making should also be constitutionally anchored. I am thinking in particular of the relationship between the Cabinet and Parliament, and their role as co-legislators, when EU legislation needs to be implemented in our country. The legislative proposal aims to strengthen this parliamentary involvement by ordering a Europe law. We see an important added value for this Europe law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u4	There is a question from Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u5	So do I in principle. It depends on what it says, but such a Europe law should have been there by now. I was wondering: should we include this in the Constitution? Do we have to go into the Constitution and say that there should be an ordinary law? We make laws here almost every day. We are not going to lay that down in the Constitution first. So why hasn't D66 decided to make such a Europe law? Then we could have discussed it with each other today, instead of making that very strange detour to first lay it down in the Constitution in two terms and then make a law, whereas D66 could have just filed that law today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u6	Firstly, there are, of course, more legislative tasks enshrined in the Constitution. I am thinking, for example, of the City Act and the Province Act. The mandate for this is set out in the Constitution. It is then up to the legislator to work that out further. Such a law is currently lacking for the European Union. That's exactly what Mr. Van Raak says. Then you can say: yes, you can make such a law without such a constitutional mandate. But for us, it's a total picture. We want to constitutionally anchor EU membership and link it to its further development through such an EU law. That could have been parallel, but we now choose to do it consecutively.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u7	That's right. I understand that proposal for the first article, which states that the Kingdom is a member of the European Union, and we will come to that later. I'm also trying to look at it a little bit legally. I find it rather strange that D66 says: oh, there must be a Europe law. But instead of making and filing a Europe law, they are going to incorporate it into the Constitution. That seems to me at least a somewhat cumbersome road. Let me say it as kindly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u8	Yes, it is what I say: it is a path that has been followed in the same way for other laws. You could even argue that it is a very royal road by first formulating the mandate to ourselves in the Constitution, then making that law yourself. We did that to the County Act, by the Water Authority Act. There are a lot of generic laws, Mr. Van Raak, where exactly the same route has been followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u9	I'm glad a Republican party like D66 prefers a royal road. This is another gain for today's debate. The D66 colleague says that it is not well arranged how we can get out of the EU. That too is a gain, because he is thinking about how we can leave that terrible institution. But what he says is wrong, because Article 50 of the Treaty of Lisbon simply explains how to get out. I mean, it's already been recorded, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u10	It is regulated within the European Treaty, but not in our own legal order. Right now, nothing's been arranged at all. So I would not know at all how we could get out at the moment, other than that you would probably have to amend that treaty by a simple majority in this Parliament and then... but that will, of course, take years, and neither the parliament nor the government can determine it by itself. This will have to be decided jointly before we can start this procedure. So it could take you a long time to walk such a route. It is precisely by anchoring it that it is arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u11	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u12	Let's see where I was. I would have stayed with the Europe Act. I don't think Mr. Van Raak is asking that question for nothing. With the SP, he has repeatedly called for attention to be paid to the way in which the Chamber is involved in the implementation of European legislation here in the Netherlands. This is regulated in no less than fourteen different Chamber letters. So we do not have one standard format for this, but fourteen different Chamber letters. This Chamber is often rightly critical of the lack of information from the cabinet on European decision-making, late-night agendas and often missing public documents. The Permanent Committee on European Affairs did not call this method 'deficient' for nothing in 2016. I understood that the Remkes State Commission also advised on this in its opinion. Can the initiators explain which parts of Remkes' opinion are taken on board? Mr. Chairman. I'll finish up. More than 20 countries, from Germany to France and from Hungary to Bulgaria, have incorporated EU membership into their Constitution. The Netherlands, one of the six founders of the Union, has not so far done so, and that is when the EU has so much influence on our daily lives and occupies a special place in our state system. Thorbecke's house could still use a good renovation at that point. Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate the initiators for their work and I look forward to the successful further handling of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u13	Thank you, Mr. Schonis. Let us now listen to Mr Van Ojik of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u14	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, on behalf of my group, let me say that we very much appreciate the initiative and that we also agree with the proposal. I could leave it at that, save time. Some people also think this is a very good idea, I can see from their body language, but I would like to explain our support and agreement with this proposal. The proposal aims to anchor European Union membership and parliamentary involvement in decision-making in the Constitution. The initiators mention a number of reasons for this. The actual situation in which we have already delegated a number of powers: customs, monetary policy, competition policy, trade policy, one could add to that: the internal market, agriculture. The Netherlands and the Dutch citizens owe a substantial part of our prosperity to this. The open borders, the unhindered trade and the single currency: anyone who does not believe how much we have to gain from this, Mr Schonis also referred to it as a matter of urgency to look at the current chaos at the French-British border. Long queues of trucks, because there is only the chance! The United Kingdom's exit from the Union without a trade agreement. But I also mention the way in which European laws and regulations are transposed into the Dutch legal order and the way in which they affect Dutch citizens. Citizens can rely on the rights conferred on them by European regulations and Treaty provisions in Dutch courts. Mr. Chairman. Then there is another reason: the EU as a community of values, also mentioned by the initiators. It is of great importance and not self-evident, given the discussion with Poland and Hungary, as I believe it was held here until very late yesterday. I would like to add two more things which are not so explicitly mentioned in the explanatory statement, but which I suspect will also be addressed by the authors, but which they will hopefully respond to later, and which they will see as a good reason to regulate both the incorporation into the Constitution and the parliamentary involvement in the Constitution. The first is the obvious increasing importance of resolving cross-border problems through international cooperation, whether it is about climate change, a migration crisis, the fight against terrorism or tackling tax avoidance. It is just as many problems that can only be solved by international cooperation and regulation. That seems obvious to me. Mr. Chairman. Another reason why this is an important and timely initiative is the growing geopolitical significance of the European Union. I think we're living more than ever in a time where we can see that. We're talking about system rivalry when it comes to the relationship with China. After four years of Trump, we have seen that what we took for granted in our relationship with the United States may not always be so self-evident. There is therefore a major debate about the geopolitical significance of the European Union, the importance of this cooperation, the ability to operate more independently of the European Union, etc., etc. Mr. Chairman. In my group's view, that is just as much reason to embrace this initiative to define the Netherlands' membership of the European Union in the Constitution. Mr Schonis has already referred to this: this discussion is quite old, because it is, if I am right, indeed twenty years ago that our distant predecessors, Mr Kohnstamm, Mr Jurgens, on behalf of the Labour Party, who I believe was the initiator at the time, and Mrs De Wolff, on behalf of my group, were already striving in the First Chamber for membership of the European Union into the Constitution. The special nature of our EU membership justifies this. I just tried to explain that. Of course, in the Netherlands, we take as a starting point that we only want to anchor the main elements of our state system in the Constitution. I say this also in connection with Mr Van Raak's interruption to Mr Schonis: of course we are not going to lay down every law that we are dealing with or intending to adopt here in Parliament in the Constitution, but we want the Constitution to regulate the main elements of our state system. Membership of the European Union is one of them in my group's view. That's what I've been trying to tell you. Mr. Chairman. I have two more questions for the authors. The first is about the relationship with the Kingdom, for formally the Kingdom is a member of the Union. Within the Kingdom, the Netherlands, and then only the European part of the country Netherlands, I must say, is actually a member of the European Union. This raises the question of whether it would not be logical to include membership in the Statute for the Kingdom, or whether that makes no sense. Can the initiators reflect on this in their response in the future? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the final part of the proposal: the anchoring of parliamentary debate. This proposal too has a long history. The most recent proposals have been made by the Remkes State Commission. In this Parliament, initiatives have been taken in this area by our colleagues Mrs Maij and Mr Mulder. That Europe law should be introduced. My question is: how does what the proposers have in mind in this respect relate to the initiatives that have been taken in this area before? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Van Ojik. I am going to give the floor to Mr Van Gent of the VVD Group. In the meantime, I would like to mention the fact that Mr Verhoeven will leave this Chamber for a few minutes because he has another obligation in the House of Representatives. But Mr Jetten is ready to take care of everything. Mr. Van Gent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope that Mr Verhoeven's departure is not related to my contribution. Anyway... Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by congratulating the proposers on their proposal. For, as far as I am concerned, the noble handicrafts of legislation, which takes a great deal of time and effort, belong to our core task. Moreover, it is about European cooperation, which is a very important issue. It has also been mentioned earlier that the inclusion of EU membership in the Constitution has been under discussion in this Chamber for a long time. As far as the VVD is concerned, therefore, this initiative deserves a substantive debate and I am going to do my best to contribute to it. My input will focus on two principles in the proposal. Firstly, the importance of the EU for the Netherlands is so great that it deserves to be anchored in our Constitution. And secondly, this can also prevent the risk of a careless, fast nexit. The Union's great importance is beyond doubt for the VVD. But the question remains, of course, whether this calls for an inclusion in our Constitution. We also attach great importance, for example, to membership of the UN and NATO. Moreover, these memberships have been going back much longer than our participation in the European Union. We also asked questions about this in the report. The applicants replied that membership of these international partnerships is incomparable with that of the European Union. And that's right, of course; this is always a bit of apples compared to pears. In my view, however, the initiators are very short-sighted when they say that the Netherlands has not given powers to NATO, for example. I would like to point out, among other things, that Article 5 of the NATO Treaty obliges Member States to provide assistance when a contracting party is attacked. As far as we are concerned, NATO membership is fundamental to our country's defence, and thus to our independence and sovereignty. And so you can also raise the question: why not NATO in the Constitution? I am also looking at Mr Van Raak. I come to another essential question that we have. We can see that European cooperation has developed enormously since the Second World War. We have come from the ECSC, through the EEC and the EC to the EU. Had the membership of the European Coal and Steel Community already been in our Constitution, these follow-up steps would have been much more difficult. We also asked questions about this in the note on the report. The applicants replied that, in the current situation, it seems unlikely that the EU will ever be given another name. Well, I envy the apparent ability of colleagues to predict the future, but if you look at the evolution of European cooperation, there is no reason to suppose that it could not undergo a fundamental change in the future. In conclusion, we fully support the importance of the European Union, but this does not mean that we need to include it in the Constitution. That inclusion in that Constitution does have far-reaching consequences for a possible end to membership of the European Union. Indeed, in this, the Prophets are right. Preliminary draft: the VVD is not in favour of such an end to membership, but in the light of the initiative law we consider it important to address the possible consequences. For example, if the EU were to be incorporated into the Constitution, a referendum on membership would no longer be possible if the referendum were to be introduced in the Netherlands. There is, of course, a proposal from Mr Van Raak. Now, as we know, the VVD is not in favour of referendums, but we know that our colleagues from D66 are in favour of referendums. Doesn't the initiators find it a pity that a referendum on EU membership will be excluded in the future due to inclusion in the Constitution? The proposers make it appear that a nexit can be created between the nose and the lips at the moment, and that a procedure must therefore be put in place to make such a decision well-considered and democratically legitimate. I believe that our work in the States-General is somewhat inadequate. I suspect that such a fundamental decision will lead to a broad debate, not only in the Lower House but also in the Senate, and also to a debate in society. Nor can I imagine such a decision being taken lightly. It is precisely the experience in Britain that shows that a decision to leave the EU, and especially the years after that, is constantly returning to the political agenda and even playing a major role in the English elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u17	It might be interesting to go into that point in the referendum. Mr Van Gent is now asking the proposers, but I really want to ask him. He says the VVD doesn't support referenda. Would that not perhaps be a reason for him and his group to embrace this initiative proposal, if I were to follow him very closely? Then at least you have a very careful... You do not have a referendum, but he is not for it anyway, so that is fine as far as he is concerned. But then you have at least a very careful procedure of a possible exit. I hope we'll never have that discussion here, but you never know. In any case, then, we have established a careful procedure through the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u18	Mr Van Ojik is absolutely right. When you don't want referendums, like the VVD, you have to include as much as possible in the Constitution. That could be a very strategic choice, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u19	That was exactly my question. So that would be a reason for the VVD Group to be in favour of this initiative legislative proposal, right? That's the only conclusion you can draw.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u20	I would not call that the only conclusion. It can, very strategically, be a motive. Anyway, you're going to weigh up again: does our aversion to referendums weigh so much more than a possible aversion to incorporate everything into the Constitution? I think it's a very strategic idea, but I haven't thought through that far, I can tell you. Thank you for the suggestion, I would like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u21	But the VVD does say in the election programme that referenda should be made possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u22	I am pleased that Mr Bosma has been so interested in our electoral programme. No, there's something in there about a preferendum, but as far as I know... Amendments are now being tabled. Our electoral programme has not yet been established, but I would like to assure Mr Bosma that I will send him a copy as soon as it is finally adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u23	Mr. Van Gent, please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u24	Finally, Mr President. I think that leads to the most fundamental question, namely that of democratic legitimacy. The proposal by the proposers also refers to this very frequently. If there is a majority in Dutch society for exit from the European Union, again, that is not something I or my party hope to see, then it is democratically legitimate for the Chamber to be able to decide in a majority. On the other hand, if the EU is incorporated into the Constitution, there are many thresholds that can actually block a majority decision. In fact, in our current constitutional review procedure, 26 out of 75 senators can make such a request impossible. My question to the authors is: how democratically legitimate is that? So much for my first-term contribution, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u25	Thank you, Mr. Van Gent. We can now listen to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u26	Mr. Chairman. Imagine in a schoolroom there are concerns about the indoor climate. Is it healthy enough? Are you sure it's fresh enough? Isn't there something that needs to be changed? There's quite a bit of discontent about it. What would you do? Look at the ventilation system? Tackle any other points in the classroom settings? What you wouldn't do is say, you know what, let's put an extra lock on the door, make it harder to get out. That would be a totally wrong approach. Then you don't take the concerns seriously at all. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the legislative proposal that we are discussing today is reminiscent of this situation. The EU, the European Union, is an issue on which many citizens have strong views. They're actually pretty worried about what's going on right now. You could call that the 'indoor climate' in the European Union. I hear questions in many Member States when 'does the European Union take the individuality of the Member States sufficiently seriously?' And 'why are new powers constantly claimed at the expense of Member States?'. And what do we now see as the action of these initiators? Instead of extra commitment to reform of the European Union and constitutional guarantees against a sneaking erosion of national sovereignty, the initiators come up with a constitutional security lock to monitor membership of the European Union. An extra lock on the door. The SGP Group is very surprised by this. I would also like to hear their reaction to this. What, for example, do they learn from the referendum on the European Constitution, which was held in the past? It showed that a lot of citizens do not want this at all. They do not want such a strong institutional design in all kinds of ways. They simply want sober, pragmatic European cooperation. Isn't that the target anymore? Should we not strive together to have good cooperation between European countries so that cross-border problems can be tackled? But for that, I repeat, the means of membership of the European Union is not the only solution. A strong legal order can take shape in different ways, as post-war history shows. The current structure of the European Union only dates back to shortly before 2000. Why are the initiators now proposing to include this specific institutional design in the Constitution? Isn't that a bit rigid rather than progressive, I ask with a wink at the initiators. Why do we not offer room for new forms of cooperation? A key element of the initiators is that the EU should be included in the Constitution because the European Union is an indispensable part of our state system. It is, of course, indisputable that the European Union has a major influence on the Netherlands, but it is not yet an indispensable part of our state system. The Thomassen State Commission stated in 2010 that membership of the European Union is not a fundamental constitutional principle. We agree with that. Why do the initiators not follow the line of the Thomasses State Commission in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u27	Maybe this is now avenging that I have not studied the SGP electoral programme very well yet, and I say this honestly, but the parallel with that lock on the door of that classroom only works if you say that we think it is a serious option to leave the European Union. Mr Van der Staaij says that there are a number of things that you may be able to take care of in the Union, but it may also be possible to do otherwise. That is, of course, correct in itself, but I think that justifies the question of where the SGP would stand. Is Mr Van der Staaij seriously saying that, as far as he is concerned, we are discussing whether we should not leave the European Union, or is he saying that he wants to stay in it? In the latter case, his analogy with that door no longer applies, because then you don't leave that classroom.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u28	The analogy is indeed true. What is important in that school is that there is teaching and that one can get together in a good and healthy way, but it is really only a question of whether this should take place precisely in this design. That is how we look at European cooperation. It is very important, very useful and very valuable. He's brought us a lot. Above all, we must continue to do so, but if you want to maintain the current European Union, you will have to reform fundamentally. You have to offer much more variety and be much more modest. We really miss the British in that regard. They were on the right side, too. If, instead, we are getting back on track towards further integration, it is indeed a serious question as far as we are concerned whether we should still be part of this European Union. The focus is therefore primarily on reform, as we say in our electoral programme, but it will stop at some point. It is time that that became visible; it cannot be just fine words.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u29	I do not quite understand that from Mr Van der Staaij. A lock can go two ways: a lock can open and close. You say you are afraid and you oppose more powers towards Europe. If we constitutionally anchor EU membership and instruct ourselves to agree on good procedures on how to deal with the implementation of new initiatives from Europe, thus increasing the democratic control of the Netherlands as a Member State, then we will do exactly what you want. Then you should embrace this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u30	No, I would not know what provision in this rather modest legislative proposal contributes to this. For everything we can do about democratic control now, we do not need this bill. It has zero added value for democratic control.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u31	Still, I don't quite get it. I have just said in my speech that there are now 14 different letters explaining the procedures and laying down how we deal with European legislation. If you legally anchor that, it will benefit the Netherlands. Mr. Van der Staaij agrees with me, doesn't he? I don't know where your resistance to that part is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u32	I was talking about that lock. That is the end that will be added to the door by a constitutional change if you want to leave the European Union. That is not the case now. You're gonna raise the threshold. A two-thirds majority is needed, it must have been in two readings, there must have been elections, so it is made much more difficult. It is clear that this is the effect of this bill. That's the extra lock. Then Mr. Schonis says: 'Yes, but, you know what else this bill says? That there should be a law to tell us exactly how to control Europe.' Yes, it's beautiful, but we don't need the Constitution to say that we need a law. We don't need a constitutional mandate for that. We've taken care of that in all kinds of other ways. It is much more useful to know if it works when we raise a finger for an orange card or a red card procedure. Does that stop the European Union? That is what it is all about and not that we regulate in a national law whether we talk about it once or twice and that kind of thing more. Mr. Chairman. The initiators, with their proposal, seem to suggest that anchoring European Union membership is necessary to ensure those core values, fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law. My group is very surprised by this. First of all, do we have our Constitution to name precisely those safeguards, such as fundamental rights and so on? We have also adopted a general provision in the Constitution which puts these fundamental principles first. Secondly, is the European Convention on Human Rights, in which all kinds of fundamental rights are also enshrined at European level? In fact, the European Union has only recently joined in and wanted to do something about it itself, but that is rather a complicated duplication of all kinds of rights than it really adds so much. What is important is how you see this relationship between the Constitution and Europe. I've been digging into history for a while. I was actually shocked by the impudence in this house in 1980. D66, Brinkhorst, tabled a motion saying that the provisions of the Constitution should be interpreted, in doubt, in such a way that the process of European integration is not hindered; European integration is more than anything else; our own Constitution should be taken into account. Unbelievable! It got a majority of the House. VVD and CDA were also involved. Fortunately, in 2013, together with Mr Slob, a motion was tabled to withdraw that motion from 1980, because that principle of course remained valid. The motion has been revoked, but not with the support of D66. Fortunately, VVD and CDA have gone along with this, but D66 both initiators are part of this. How do the initiators see the relationship between the Constitution and Europe? Do they still think that, in the event of doubt, European integration will ultimately be more than anything else and that it would be okay if we put our Constitution aside a little? Do they still have that view? I'm very curious about that. Mr. Chairman. Finally. I always find it fascinating, the European Union and how you bring it back into the Constitution. Somehow I have a point of understanding for the initiators and I see consensus. Is it not really strange that the European Union, which has such an impact on our legal system, does not in any way return to the Constitution? I get that question. But couldn't we do it any other way? Would it not be an idea to say that we are naming something of this European effect and that we are introducing a provision that could also be included in the amendment to this proposal which states that a two-thirds majority is needed in Parliament if we are to amend European treaties? That is the way to call Europe, and that is the way to meet the initiators. At the same time, you are addressing a real issue of the erosion of powers towards Europe. That really requires a bigger threshold.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u33	I would like to support that wholeheartedly. I also have an amendment to that. When it comes to European treaties and the transfer of sovereignty, a referendum on them should be held by default. That seems to me to be a good amendment to Mr Van der Staaij's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u34	I can imagine from Mr Van Raak's point of view that you still see that as an additional guarantee. In our view of representative democracy, there is a bit of an inconvenience about the instrument of the referendum, but the unpleasantness that was there has been a real reason to say that we cannot just reject a referendum and leave it at that. That is why, within representative democracy, we have sought an opportunity to do something about it. That's the two-thirds majority. At least without a referendum you will do something about it. I would like to give Mr Van Raak his additional guarantee of the referendum, but we do not agree with that, from our point of view on referenda. I am curious if the initiators will accept this glove, I could also call it a hand-out, so as to dress up the bill a little further. It would be absurd to have a light procedure for the euro that has come about, open borders, perhaps a European army. That's kind of the inconvenience with this bill, isn't it? All this can be done under an ordinary law, without any particular regulation, but if you ever wanted to leave the European Union, then suddenly we need to take it to the level of a constitutional change. That's an absurdity, isn't it? At least this is where you'd do something about that absurdity. Otherwise the European Union will be turned into a trap, a little disrespectful. You can swim in it, but then you can't swim out of it, or you have to change the whole Constitution. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Last one. One might think: has the SGP now been called so much about this bill that it ignores even the normal courteous ways of dealing, by not complimenting the initiators at the beginning of their hard work? No, Mr President, that is certainly not the case. But I wanted to wait until Mr Verhoeven was back in the Chamber, so I can thank both initiators very much for their commitment to this bill. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u35	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I can now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf, on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u36	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much for the floor. First of all, a comment on the timing of this bill. For our parliamentary process, this is a very logical time to discuss this bill now. This is a constitutional change that should be dealt with during this period, before the elections. But everything's kind of coming together this week. I refer to the Brexit that is coming and to the negotiations on the Multiannual Financial Framework. Solidarity in Europe is currently under incredible pressure. And yet the initiators are putting forward this bill right now. I would like to congratulate them on all the work they have put into it and also on the courage to come forward with this bill this month, which will allow the Chamber to consider it now. I do have a lot of questions for the proposers. The first is the added value that this brings. What difference does it make in the end if we include European Union membership in the Constitution? Colleagues have already pointed that out. The European Union has an enormous impact on our legal system, so there is much to be said to include the European Union in our legislation from a state-law point of view. But I would ask the authors to say a few words about this. The authors point out that membership of the United Nations, the Benelux countries and NATO is also involved, but they do not make the choice to include it in our legislation. Can they further justify why it is desirable to do so for the European Union? And why do we make a ranking in these international contexts? I note that Members are motivating it in this way, too, to create a clear exit path by including European Union membership in the Constitution. That leads me and my group to the image of a kind of Hotel California, where you can hardly get out of it, the point Mr Van der Staaij pointed out because it is becoming more difficult on the one hand. On the other hand, however, I do not want to call it a red carpet, because it is a complicated step, a path of exit. I ask the authors how they reflect on this. There is strong support in the Netherlands for membership of the European Union. The last report by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau shows this again, so I do not recognize myself in the reflections that Mr Van der Staaij has just brought. There is still broad support in the Netherlands for membership of the Netherlands of the European Union. The European Union continues to add value every day. Aren't you gonna put pressure on that support plate when you put this forward as impetuously as the proposers are doing right now? I would like to ask them to respond. Then I come to the second point in the legislative proposal, namely to introduce a Europe law. That is a point on which I am very positive and enthusiastic. I do not know what the added value of putting this into the Constitution is. However, I can imagine that the authors have linked these two issues. But I think that without that provision in the Constitution we could take a step here. And very recently, the Remkes State Commission has also advised on this. It analyzed a number of problems. At the moment, Parliament is not sufficiently focused on using the existing instruments to influence European decision-making, such as the parliamentary retention of treatment that we have, or the subsidiarity test, or the yellow card procedure. The House of Representatives is also not always informed in good time about the proposed EU policy. Yesterday we discussed with the Prime Minister the opening up of Council documents, for example, which is the problem. There is also uncertainty about the role and involvement of both chambers in EU policies. This leads me to this question to the cabinet and the minister: shouldn't we just be drafting such a law now? The Christian Union has been advocating this very often since 2013, so I was able to find out how to settle in one central place what the involvement of both Chambers is in this. I'd like a response from the Minister. And the question is: can we not start working on this, apart from this bill? Mr. Chairman. Those are actually my questions about this law, and I would very much like to ask the authors' response to that. I look forward to their answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u37	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. We have now come to the point where I could give the floor to Mr Bosma on behalf of the PVV. Oh, here he comes fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u38	In politics, you have to make an entrance, Mr. Chairman, and this was another one. But I thought there were other speakers before me, I'm sorry. Congratulations to both proposers on this initiative proposal. It is, I think, in this way exercising one of the core activities of Parliament's membership to simply fulfil our role as co-legislator. And I mean it. My lyrics said 'Condoleances', but I thought 'let me start positive', so I changed that. No, seriously, it's of course very good and great that MPs are doing this. Mr. Chairman. The first task of a constitution is to protect citizens from the government. That is why the American constitution is such a monument. Thomas Jefferson cut the state to pieces to prevent it from becoming too powerful. In the Netherlands, the most recent, at least large, constitutional change takes back to the Den Uyl cabinet, the most left-wing cabinet ever. The Constitution was turned into a kind of wish list with many 'fun things for left-wing people', as Joop den Uyl said in a different context. Like that fashionable Article 1 on discrimination, which would be a very big problem. We owe the wording of that Article 1 to Soviet apologist Marcus Bakker, spokesperson of international communism. And also that weird article 20:'spreading prosperity', a weird kind of GDR article. Article 22, which ends with: the government 'creates conditions for social and cultural development and for leisure activities'. Well, that's not supposed to be in the Constitution. According to constitutional amateur Toornvliet, the latter also implies - and I quote - 'the broadest possible care for ethnic minorities to preserve their own culture'. We don't feel the same way these days. Fashionable constitutional changes have been this. Journalist Syp Wynia rightly refers to that 1983 Constitution as a hippie constitution. It is a kind of turning point 1972, the joint election program of D66, the Labour Party and the PPR of Mr. Van Ojik, but a bit more neatly written down. That is why it is so understandable that many left-wing parties are in the starting-point to have our laws tested against that Constitution by a constitutional court, so that D66 judges can consider a D66 constitution. Gee, what could the outcome be? The EU, that may be clear, you know the position of my party, President-in-Office, we must have as little to do with that as possible. There is no European people, and then there can be no European democracy. And who does she know? All those unelected bureaucrats? Von der Leyen: no Dutchman has ever voted for this German. We have to get out, if only because mass immigration comes from Brussels decrees and is actually one of the EU's core values. It is also very bad economically. My party once had a nice nexit report written about it, about the economic benefits of exiting the EU. We just need to do that as soon as possible. I hear Mr Verhoeven laughing a bit. He has that right as a petitioner. In the past, the proposers used to wear a tie, but this aside. We remember an opinion article by Mr Verhoeven in the newspaper Het Parool, written together with Mr Paternotte, who then, I think, excelled in the city council of Amsterdam. In it, Mr Verhoeven called on the Netherlands and in particular Amsterdam to prepare for the flood of companies that would arise because a Brexit would take place. I'm talking about maybe four or five years ago. In the meantime, we're seeing reality. We see that large Dutch and semi-Dutch companies such as Shell and Unilever, with a great history that goes back to the 19th century, have now left the Netherlands. And where are they going? They're going to Britain, the country of the Brexit! So Mr Verhoeven wrote in Het Parool about a kind of doom scenario, but these big, crucial companies simply opt for the independent Britain and leave the European superstate on a climate-socialist basis. Sometimes when I'm down, Mr Verhoeven, I still read that article and then I'm immediately happy again. The EU's core task is to impose an ideology, the 'woke ideology'. That's a cocktail of diversity racism, climate socialism and war against the nation state. It's slowly becoming a colonial power. Vladimir Boekovski, the famous Soviet dissident, therefore saw the EU in the light of the Soviet Union. He wasn't wrong much. To define the great-European empire under German leadership in the Constitution serves only one purpose: to ensure that we can never get out. So reduce the chance that our people will turn against it. Mrs. Van der Graaf just mentioned the Hotel California. Indeed: you can check in, but you can never leave. Retiring from the EU, if the Netherlands so wishes, must be made as difficult as possible. That would have to be done by means of a constitutional change. A constitutional change is very complicated and very difficult. Two lectures, et cetera. It also makes the referendum impossible, because once it is in the Constitution, how do you get it out? The goal is to banish any popular will. The target is a lock on the door. We're swimming in a trap and we're never getting out. We're trapped like rats. Willem Drees quite rightly opposed that delusion of a united Europe. Weird that the two proposers belong to D66, the party that was founded to quote Hans van Mierlo once again 'dig channels to power'. If you want to dig channels for power, why build a moat and put EU membership in the Constitution, because then you can't change it anymore! Then a referendum is also impossible. Hans van Mierlo wanted, among other things, a referendum on the Maastricht Treaty. That would have been impossible if we had listened earlier to the two confused proposers. It is another attack by D66 on the memory of Hans van Mierlo. Can the proposers answer that? In the explanatory memorandum, the applicants used to stress the importance of the EU. Yeah, there's no question about that; I get that. You may then disagree on its conclusions, but that is not the point. The point is: why does it have to be in the Constitution? The arguments put forward by both proposers actually go no further than the advertising slogan that, I think, was once made up by Ton Elias, namely 'Europe'. Pretty important." Furthermore, it is a rather thin support; there is actually no support. What will the Netherlands gain from the proposal of both proposers? I don't see those arguments, but because I'm not the worst one, I'd like to give them the opportunity to come up with arguments during the Christmas holidays. And then we will listen to that with great pleasure in the first term of the proposers. Then I read: that's going to make it easier for us to get out of the EU. No, that's apekraut. That is not the point, because Article 50 of the Treaty of Lisbon already allows us to leave the EU. So the argument that that would be the reason for this proposal is quite easy to wipe off the table. That's not the point. They are concerned with a possible popular will, say that people want us to go out of the EU. That is evident from the fact that their argument is not correct. If D66 is giving up on the Constitution so highly, why does it not simply do its best as a coalition party to ensure a proper implementation of Article 68 of the Constitution on the information position of the Lower House of States General, which is repeatedly pointed out that it is not right? See the whole supplemental affair again. It is in the Constitution, but it doesn't mean anything else, because if we in the Chamber want to know things, then we'll all get scraped papers. So, D66, if you give up on the Constitution that high, look at that. My group is not surprised that this proposal comes from the party whose core business is to silence citizens. See burning our library books under a D66 minister. See with diversity subsidy politics making art under a D66 minister. See the political turning of universities under a D66 minister. See the abuse of the secret service for D66 purposes under a D66 minister. And now under a D66 minister, the state is going to decide what's true and what's fake news in the election. Big brother Ollongren is watching you! And, of course, the abolition of the referendum, even under a D66 minister. We remember the debate in which Mr Jetten fought with enthusiasm against the referendum. He did that with a lot of fire. Although he didn't have any arguments, he did his best. I thought, "Well, this guy's gonna go a long way in Dutch politics." Even then he had no arguments and today it all fits in with the ideology of D66, the ideology of: the citizen must keep his mouth shut. And that's not the sentiment that appeals to my party very much. I am very happy to listen to the arguments and contributions of both proposers. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u39	Thank you, Mr. Bosma. I call Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 'Before every possible political unification of Europe, the spiritual unity of Europe seems to me to be a reality and a task which finds its deepest foundation in the awareness of the diversity of this, our Europe.' These are words from Hans-Georg Gadamer from his book 'Das Erbe Europass' about the legacy of Europe. It appeared in 1989, the fall of the Berlin Wall between the east and the west. This nestor of European philosophy warned his contemporaries not to replace the monoculture of communism in the east with a capitalist monoculture throughout the continent. Now, even in this debate, you see fanatical urophiles who want to impose all kinds of policies on the countries from above. On the other hand, nationalists prefer their own values. However, Europe's history shows how all countries and all peoples have always exchanged values and ideas. For me, the process of European integration after the Second World War was one of the most beautiful political processes the continent has ever known. Countries wanted to put the destruction of the war behind them and instead worked together for the well-being and prosperity of all residents. It was a process that went gradually, like any successful historical process. Until this process was hijacked, in the Treaty concluded in Maastricht in 1992. My party was not in the Chamber at the time, but many SPs were in Maastricht to protest, because this EU Treaty replaced the process of growing cooperation between countries with a one-sided political project: the people's Europe became a European Union of markets. The European project was hijacked in Maastricht by neoliberalism, by a scary, political monoculture. What is Europe? That question is easy to answer. Europe was a princess, a Phoenician beauty, seduced by the Greek chief god Zeus after this god disguised himself in the form of a bull. Since 1992, Europe has been seduced by capital, in the guise of the EU. At first this seemed like a tempting deception, but love passed quickly. Few Europeans like the European Union. The most extraordinary moment in nearly twenty years of politics was for me the referendum on the European Constitution, in 2005. This was the first and last time that people in our country were able to express their views on the future of Europe and our position in it, and whether the policy they had chosen from 1972 on which they had nothing to say at the time was something they wanted. The answer sounded loud. The answer was clear. The answer was no. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Toch werd de democratie opzijgezet en ging de neoliberale politiek door.]] Today we are talking about a proposal by Mr Jetten and Mr Verhoeven to include this European Union in the Constitution, a proposal that has little legal significance, I think, but perhaps all the more symbolically. And that comes at a time when the European Union is clinching with itself. In the east we see countries like Hungary and Poland in opposition. In the west we see Great Britain coming out. In no country is the European Union popular. In the Netherlands too, people have little confidence in EU policies. I'm just quoting him, the great philosopher Gadamer. 'Before every possible political unification of Europe, the spiritual unity of Europe seems to me to be a reality and a task which finds its deepest foundation in the awareness of the diversity of this, our Europe.' I do not think this EU is committed. First, we must save Europe from the neoliberal bull. Not as neoliberal monoculture but in all its diversity, in the consciousness of its diversity, as Gadamer so beautifully said. A Europe of countries and people working together and slowly growing together, as happened until 1992, before this European project was hijacked. We can make Europe democratic, strengthen the independence of countries, increase people's participation and stop imposing policies that people really do not want. That is possible, but then there must be a new treaty, a new Europe, another Europe. Then we can work together, against international crime, in the reception of refugees or in good climate policy. That is a Europe that, as far as I am concerned, we are also presenting to the people of the Netherlands in a referendum. I do not think we should include this EU in the Constitution. I believe that this can only be done with a Europe in which people in our country have confidence. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u41	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. Finally, in this first term of office, we are going to listen to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today I am replacing my colleague Harry van der Molen, who is normally speaking in this committee, but I think it is very nice to be here and to have this discussion with this fine committee in plenary. Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of the CDA Group and on behalf of my colleague Van der Molen, I would of course like to thank the initiators for the proposal on the table. That gives us the opportunity to speak in the Netherlands about our country in the perspective of Europe. As a small country with an open economy, we have a great interest in our prosperity and security in a strong and stable Europe, which represents the protection of the values of democracy and the rule of law and our way of life. The corona pandemic dramatically shows how the world's relations are and how they have changed. In the new relations, Europe, more often than before, as a global player, will have to determine its own position in order to protect the European way of life and our security and prosperity. This calls for a self-conscious European Union, which stands for more than just the single market. As a community of values, we share important principles of freedom, the rule of law and democracy. The Dutch interest lies in a strong European bloc, which can play a significant role in the world and get things done. There's something to wish for. European cooperation makes an important contribution to peace, security, prosperity and solidarity. It is based on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. So far, the CDA Group is in fact in complete agreement with the initiators. The initiators say that now the question is whether cooperation in the European Union should be stepped up, should remain about the same or should become less intensive. Some even believe that the Netherlands should leave the Union. But that is not the question we are discussing today. The question on the table today is what the added value is. We also hear a lot of colleagues asking that. What is the point of this proposal? What is improving for the Netherlands or for Europe? What is the value of the provision in the Constitution proposed by the initiators? At a time when European values are under pressure across the Union, it is necessary to include EU membership in the Constitution. Is that right? Is that necessary? The initiators say so. The proposed article not only has value as a clarion punch, they say, but it also has legal added value. The draft law not only anchors the formal membership of the Netherlands in the European Union, but also anchors the core values mentioned above. The CDA Group asks the initiators to explain this point again: what will change if the proposed provision is incorporated into the Constitution? Because that is not quite clear to our group. Is the added legal value that if the Netherlands were to decide to withdraw from the European Union, the Constitution would first have to be revised, which would not allow for the decision to be taken by simple majority, but only by qualified majority, to withdraw from the European Union? A revision of the Constitution requires a majority of at least two thirds of the votes at second reading. If the second reading takes place in a united meeting, something more changes than it could be a little faster, as the initiators say. Would the initiators like to reconsider their thoughts and share them with us? In the written report, the CDA Group has asked for other countries that have not laid down European Union membership in their constitutions. The answer does not make it clear why countries such as Denmark, Luxembourg and others have not done so. What is even more important is the impact of the lack of such a provision on the functioning of these countries in the European Union or on the functioning of the core values. Does this work, for example, in Denmark or Luxembourg, in a much worse way than in other countries which do? One final question. The file contains a report from the States of Curaçao, but not from Aruba and Saint Martin. Are they there, or have they not turned anything in, and what is the reason for that? Or is their opinion known? To sum up, the CDA Group is not convinced that the absence of a provision on membership of the European Union in the Dutch Constitution undermines the recognition of the importance of the European Union for the Netherlands, because we share that interest. Conversely, the CDA Group is not convinced that the proposed constitutional provisions have substantial added value. But that is why I asked the questions on behalf of our group and I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u43	In the meantime, there is another question for you from Mr Schonis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u44	A little remarkable that you say you don't see that added value you just mentioned very well. I took a look at VNO-NCW and SMEs Netherlands, who do see this added value. They are saying that the value of the EU is so great for Dutch business that it is actually crazy that this is not yet enshrined in the Constitution. Then how does the CDA Group view that? That's a value, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u45	Yeah, I read that article, too. You can see that business says: we do not want the uncertainty that we get some sort of Brexit here in the Netherlands. That's what business says, and I understand that very well. Then it is important that we in the Netherlands choose parties in our democratic system that ensure that the Netherlands does not leave the European Union. That is the democratic guarantee. In order to close it and make sure that it can't be done at all, not even democratically, I wouldn't find it so charming. But it helps companies to know for the next 100 years that this will never change, so that the market remains exactly the same for them, and that a company wants it, I understand very well. Sometimes we will see democratic rules clash with rules of business. That's why we're in this room to consider that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u46	I find that very striking. You say that business says this because it wants continuity and security, and it clashes with democratic values. But nothing's been arranged now. If we incorporate it into the Constitution later, that will be different. It's not settled now; you can only start a procedure now. That would have to be done either from the Chamber or from the government to start that Article 50 procedure. Yes, that can be done by a simple majority, but then it will still be a process that will take many years. At the moment when we are anchoring it in the Constitution, there is a clear democratic procedure with a high threshold, certainly. But that is also a piece of certainty that has an additional advantage, namely that business will see the Netherlands as a stable factor. That's what the CDA sees, isn't it? It is not a clash of two values, a democratic value and a value of business, is it? That's just guaranteeing democratic rule of law, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u47	You offer the certainty with the Constitution that you will never be able to get out, or almost never again. That's the certainty you're offering. I do not want to get out of it either, but let us always explain this democratically here in the House of Representatives. In addition to the fact that the European Union is a fantastic internal market, the European Union is, of course, more than just that. We also have other values in Europe that we defend. So in that sense, business always has a very important voice, including in this Chamber, because every euro we spend through the budget law of this Chamber must also be earned somewhere. But business is not the only one who has a say in whether we are putting the European Union into the Constitution or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u48	Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert. That brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-6.u49	As has been said, the debate will continue at a later date. I shall now suspend the sitting until 2.15 p.m. and then the Chamber will vote.
