ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is a 30-member debate on fraud against the numbers of animals in livestock farming, with Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is of a country which, when it comes to livestock farming, is always seeking the limits of what is legally possible and, if possible, stretching those limits. From a country that, when it comes to the harmful effects of nitrogen on nature, chose to create a paper reality to postpone real measures for itself. From a country suffering from a major biodiversity crisis. From a country that is eagerly looking for ways to achieve the agreed climate goals. From a country where political street fights within the coalition, which I do not see here today, take place over the shrinkage of the number of animals in livestock farming. From such a country you would expect us to have exactly how many animals there are in the stables. That there is a clear and unambiguous record of the numbers of animals. That it is not true that if you enter a random stable, there are many more animals present than allowed by the permit. However, this is the case in a lot of stables. We've been able to see the numbers. Between 2015 and 2017 it was found that as many as 42% of the controlled livestock farmers had more animals than they had production rights for. Moreover, the overrun must be very severe, because Article 22 of the Fertilisers Act allows 15% more animals to be kept than a holding has to have animal rights. So it is possible that we have a small 2 million pigs tolerated in the Netherlands, and 15 million chickens tolerated. Those are incredibly large numbers. Where did these bizarre margins come from? Is it assumed that 15% of animals die prematurely in the stables? And isn't that a bizarrely high mortality rate? Or is it about allowing multiple animals at certain peak moments in the year? In this case, should the Minister not check whether there are fewer animals at other times in the year? Or are animals in stables with hundreds of thousands of species simply not counted? It's hard to tell if there's 100,000 or 120,000 chickens in a stable. What is the reason for this huge 15% margin of animals that farmers are allowed to keep more? Now we are talking about the cases of fraud that have been discovered, as it happens, I would almost like to say. Very little is being checked. The NVWA comes to a stable on average once every 30 years. The environmental services check only for animal numbers in relation to the environmental permit. They don't look at the number of rights. So the chance of getting caught is virtually negligible. Isn't that incredible when it comes to a sector with such a big impact on nature, the climate and animal welfare? Mr. Chairman. We urgently need to move towards a single, central registration of all species and categories, and access and interconnection of data, with a system of production rights for all species without sneaking out, towards more controls. How else do we ever get a grip on the size of the livestock? I'd like a response from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u3	We're talking about farm animals and target animals. Horses are partially target animals, for the croquettes and the bitterballs. They're partly pets, too, which I love so much. Does Mr. Wassenberg agree with me that there should also be a better registration of horses? There's a whole horse farm. You'd be doing the animal police a great deal of favor if you and other MPs were to support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u4	I can reassure Mr Graus: that would be worth a sweet thing to me. So the answer is yes, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you. Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u6	Mr. Chairman. An investigation of Pigs in Emergency would show that there would be a huge fraud with pigs. In a letter, the Minister denied that fraud would take place. Anyone who goes into the system of registering pigs in the Netherlands, like me, will end up in a jungle of control systems. We have the combined data collection. We have TRACES, an EU system. We also have a Dutch system called I&R. We also have the counts for CBS and GDI. The Minister's replies to the alleged fraud showed that all these different counts are not comparable. It is therefore impossible for me as a Member of Parliament to see who is right. Is it Pigs in Emergency now or is it the Minister who is right? What about the differences in these figures and is there fraud, yes or no? To make it even more complicated, enforcement is also in different hands. You have enforcement by the NVWA, you have enforcement by RVO and you have enforcement by the environmental services. And to make it even more difficult: NVWA and RVO are not allowed to pass on company data to the environmental services. I'm trying to imagine what that enforcement looks like, because if you look at the numbers, there's very little, not often control on a farm. But there is also no coordination between those enforcers. And that's too bad. I remember from the old days we had our own company, which when the Tax Administration came, didn't come the same year as the UWV, because the Tax Administration immediately watched. That would also be much more efficient in livestock farming. My main question today to the Minister, who does promise that more links will be found between the systems, is: has she looked, instead of adapting the existing system, at a very new system that is much simpler, much more transparent and verifiable for farmers, for action groups, for civil society organisations, for the Ministry itself and for MPs? A black box where all kinds of data disappear is fraud sensitive, is opaque and does not help to improve the living conditions of pigs in the Netherlands. So my question is also whether the Minister would like to look at a much more in-depth analysis of this administrative spaghetti, so that it will all be much easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u7	Thank you, Mrs Bromet. I call Mr Moorlag of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Maintaining the number of animals becomes more urgent. We have a huge nitrogen problem, which increases the urgency. A lot of money is being made available to clean up part of the livestock sector. Companies are being bought up. I note that keeping unauthorized animals, i.e. exceeding the authorised numbers, also causes nitrogen. I think there is a great deal of profit to be made if the number of animals that have been authorised is properly maintained. Does the Minister share this view and does she agree that it has become more urgent to maintain the number of animals authorised? This also means that we need to buy fewer companies to meet the nitrogen targets. We are also taking away an unfair competitive advantage, because it is up to me that entrepreneurs who break the rules derive an advantage from it compared to their colleagues who follow the rules promptly. Mr. Chairman. I am also concerned about the complexity of Mrs Bromet's report, and I am also concerned about not only the system of registering and maintaining animal numbers, but also the legislation on manure. The Court of Auditors has cracked hard notes about this in the past. My question to the Minister is, also in relation to the problem of nitrogen, whether she is prepared to let the Remkes Committee see how we can achieve nitrogen reduction through a better system of controlling, registering, monitoring and enforcement. I would also like to stress the need for supervision and enforcement, because the NVWA is heavily overburdened and has problems. How will supervision and enforcement be adequately secured after the removal of the director of the NVWA? I'm really worried about that anyway. Mr. Chairman. One final point I am concerned about is the effect of the corona crisis on the current animal numbers in the stables. If the process of transporting animals to abattoirs and the slaughter process is disrupted, then we run the risk that stables will actually grow literally. I cannot ignore this topicality and I am looking for a balance between a sense of urgency and a lack of unrest. Previously, we have seen the problems that can arise. My question to the Minister is: to what extent are policies and measures being developed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u9	Thank you, Mr Moorlag. Mr. Graus of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Fraud and fraud are everywhere, including in the best families, but must be dealt with. I think that the Minister should protect the predominantly good farmers we have, just hard-working people who are good for everyone, from the few who often mess around and cheat. For this, the NVWA must be put in order quickly. I trust the Minister will do that. We have just had the debate about abuses in those slaughterhouses, where a NVWA veterinarian is simply abused, and veterinarians are intimidated. I hope the Minister will work with Justice and Security. The animal police. The animal police, people with criminal jurisdiction, with weapons, who are not intimidated or abused, because then you just have a fat problem. Those people need to know that, too. Protect those vets! Take care of those duo teams with the animal police! 144 animal police, I'll say it again. The more people hear it, the better. We are in favour of as much animal-friendly livestock farming as possible, where fraud and fraud are being dealt with. We have put forward several improvements, for example Stable Safe for fire safety. It's much more important that we talk about that. In recent years hundreds of thousands of animals have been burned. If you look at it over the past 20 years, it's really incredible how many animals have been burned. The animals must be able to flee. Get to work with that. A sprinkler doesn't help, because it causes even more smoke and then the animals choke before the fire department gets there. An animal, a pig or a cow, any animal, must be able to flee. That's what a human does. You gotta get out of here. There's no point leaving those animals in those lofts and turning sprinklers on. They'll be happy about that... They're just choking. Make sure that Stable Safesystem, which the PVV put forward, gets there. The NVWA must be in order. And people who don't handle their animals properly should be banned from working. They should also be given a lifetime ban on keeping animals in private. I will not mention the name of that horrible pig farmer who has been banned in Germany and is now returning to the Netherlands. That man shouldn't be allowed to keep a dog or a rabbit at home either. Let's talk about that, about these really super important things. Mr Moorlag cited the transports. We said a long time ago: start with carcass transport. Most of the misery arises according to your own NVWA veterinarians, who you are the boss of, during transport and during loading and unloading. Let's stop doing that for once. The PVV has been asking for carcass transport for a long time. I would all like to hear a reaction to that. Otherwise, a lot of questions have already been asked, and I agree with them. Madam President. There's so much misery. I stopped eating meat myself a long time ago. Anyway, I would never eat my best friends. If you see what kind of misery there is everywhere, it wouldn't taste me anymore, I have to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u11	Thank you. Mr Futselaar of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. How good, how thorough and how covering are our identification and registration systems in practice? That is the key question for the SP in this debate. The Minister's letter following the debate request shows that I&R and the European TRACES are not always filled in equally when it comes to pigs, which leads to different figures on numbers. In practice, this means an administrative difference of 450,000 pigs. That's an administrative difference. Those pigs haven't lost or disappeared. However, this is worrying, also because pigs are not individually included in an I&R system, such as cattle. I would also like to ask the Minister whether it is not really wise to change that and to include individual pigs in it in the future. But we've had more I&R problems in recent years. We have had the calf fraud, or I&R fraud, as it was called, which in the end did not turn out to be very fraud but, above all, quite massively misfiling in a system. In 2019 there were reports that there are quite some errors in the I&R system for sheep, not even fraud, but in practice simply not filling in and keeping track of residence registration. That's a problem. This is not only a problem when it comes to possible fraud, but also a real problem when an animal disease breaks out. The latter is also primarily for which the system has been introduced. No system is perfect and mistakes are made, but I would like to ask the Minister if she can say anything about where she thinks the biggest gaps or risks are in our system. What animal categories are there for, and what can we do about it? Mr. Chairman. My final central point is this. We have a system of animal production rights. We have a system of phosphate rights for dairy farming. We have an I&R system. We have an annual agricultural census. We have a system of provincial and municipal permits when it comes to the Nature Protection Act, about barn size, et cetera. But those datasets are almost unconnected. Mr Wassenberg has rightly already mentioned this. As far as the SP is concerned, that really should be done much more. We leave a great deal behind, not only when it comes to effectively detecting fraud, but also when it comes to making policies. I regularly get emails from dairy farmers who say: listen, 20 kilometers away is a colleague of mine who has been granted phosphate rights for animals for which he had no permits at all to put them in the stable; how can such a thing happen? Then I have to say: yes, those permits are not issued by the Ministry; that does not know whether or not that dairy farmer had permits for that. Or take the nitrogen crisis. Surely it would be very nice for us to be able to see directly in which parts of the country there is potential space when it comes to barn size and permits? We cannot do that now in practice, because all that information is in different parts of the country. So is it not time to coordinate much more such datasets, not just to combat fraud, but also to ensure that we have a real view of agriculture and that we have a policy on it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u13	Thank you. I'll suspend for ten minutes. Then we will listen to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u14	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Members for their input into this debate. The immediate reason for the debate was indeed the report of Pigs in Emergency. Pigs in Nood had also found that there were differences in the different databases and wondered what was actually going on. Let me put this at the forefront: if there is fraud, it is absolutely unacceptable. This not only means something for the competitive environment, to put it mildly, between the companies themselves, but it can also harm a public interest. That is what is important for us to have a look at the animals and, therefore, animal health, even when the animals come back into the food chain. However, that does not mean, I would like to remind you, that there are now indications of large-scale fraud with animal numbers. Animal welfare, animal health, the environment and food safety are all public interests that directly affect livestock farming. It is also up to me to safeguard those public interests. In order to do so, livestock farmers and the chain consignments of livestock must be included, for example, in the case of feed suppliers, slaughterhouses, manure carriers, Rendac............................................................................................................................................................................................................ These databases have a specific purpose, on which they are also set up. The different data from those databases shall be used in the implementation and enforcement of legislation in this field. For example, the I&R system exists, identification and registration. This is for tracing animal movements and farm contacts in the context of food safety and animal health. We have the European TRACES system, which is used to record animal movements between Member States, so when animals cross the border. We have the animal production rights system, which aims at controlling the amount of manure and limiting the load on manure. They all have their own database. The creation and up-to-date maintenance of these databases is quite an investment, which also involves administrative burdens for users. So we also need to look closely at how we set up these databases efficiently and effectively, because you need to be able to work with them. You have to weigh that up against what that means for all the administrative activities, even if it is only to prevent people from seeing the forest because it becomes too complicated, especially when the burden is too high. Those are the considerations you make in those systems. That is also one of the reasons why we do not have a current database of exact numbers of animals for each species in the Netherlands at any time. That is the case with the pigs. I come now specifically to the questions that have been asked. But that is also not necessary to safeguard the public interests mentioned. In addition to all these public databases, livestock farmers also pass on their data via the combined data collection, popularly called the Agricultural Survey. Such data shall be used for various administrative arrangements and also for cross-checks between the different monitoring and enforcement systems. Last year, I recalled that, Pigs in Emergency issued a report stating that millions of pigs are kept in the Netherlands every year more than is known to the government. In this context, Pigs in Need also advocated an individual registration of pigs. I have already responded to this report in my July 2019 letter of inquiry. I also said in that letter that, following the report, an internal analysis was carried out on the various public databases and that they also function adequately for the purpose for which they were set up. Because there are cross-checks between these different databases, irregularities are revealed quickly. Then there may be a reason to go back to that. On the basis of the internal analysis carried out, I believe that we have a system in which public databases function properly and that public interests are truly protected. I shall then come to the specific questions put by Members. Because one of the questions, I believe, was from Mrs Bromet, while Mr Wassenberg hinted at that too, was whether we should not have a central database, in which everything is made completely clear at once. Well, if you're gonna do that, then you're gonna have to unite the different goals of the different databases that are there now in a certain way. Then you are talking about the Fertilisers Act, the transport movements, the environmental permits that have also been issued. All databases that have their own independent purpose, which we then have to try to unite into one database. That's quite a job, I'm just saying. If you want to do that in that way, it will take an incredibly long time and you have to invest a lot of money in it to make sure you do it that way. I'm not saying it's impossible, because I see Mrs Bromet getting up, I'm just saying that's an incredibly big job. The question is whether you need the concerns that the Chamber has and the concerns that we have at the moment, of course, when we ask ourselves what is in between, to make sure that you get that insight. I believe that we can do this in another way, namely through those cross-checks. I shall come back to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u16	There is no one who is waiting for extra work or wants to make things even more complicated than they already are. It's about making things simpler. I think it's about animal numbers. Why is it so hard to just have the same animal numbers for every purpose you have? It is a number: on farm x there are so many pigs present. Or is that too simple?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u17	That is a slightly too simple representation of reality. I would not put Mrs Bromet in the mouth too simple. That also has to do with the fact that it's different at what time you're here. Why do we register all the cattle at I&R per beast and not the pigs? That has to do with the time when an animal is on a farm. In cattle, this is usually much longer than in pigs, with a much faster turnaround time. This has to do with how long an animal is on a farm, but also with how many pigs are born. You can't time all that exactly and determine it in advance. In cattle, for example, this is somewhat more predictable. That is one of the reasons why pigs have not been selected for one number, a number of pigs that should always be present on the holding. So you will also come to the explanation for the 15% that Mr Wassenberg asked for. What exactly is the difference between these 15% animals? That margin is in the Fertilisers Act, because it has been recognised that the number of animals that can be present on a farm varies from one year to the next.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u18	Before I ask about the 15%, I would like to come back to the registration. The Minister says it's very complicated to make it a single system. I think that we do not necessarily want a system that is simpler, but a system that is fraud-proof. There are now several registration systems that all have to do with the function. The Minister already described it: it is about transport movements and manure. But an animal is an animal: a pig is a pig and a chicken is a chicken. Shouldn't there just be one system that can be equipped for these different tasks? That will indeed be a lot of work and it will indeed cost money, but that way you can fight fraud much better. I think that's the point. The question is not "how do we keep it as simple as possible?', But "how do we keep it as fraud-proof as possible?" Again, we now have an insanely complicated system, which first looks at the function and then what animal belongs to it. It's gotta be easier. No, it shouldn't be simpler, it should be more fraud-proof.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u19	I fully agree with Mr Wassenberg that something must be fraud-proof. I'd like to challenge him to think the other way. What if you have one system? Then, for example, farmers indicate: I have so many animals. That's the only number there is. You can maintain that by checking whether that actually plays at that time. That doesn't depend on whether there's any fluctuation in the moment you come along. I think Mr Wassenberg recognizes that as well. Then you have one number on which to base everything. I would say that at the moment we have much more opportunities to make these differences understandable. How come there's holes between one database and the other? These cross-checks bring out the deviant cases earlier, because you think: hey, how weird, in one database this number is and in the other database that number is. How can we explain that? Sometimes there is a very good explanation for this, but sometimes there is not, and that can be a reason for very focused enforcement. I recognise that a system must be fraud-proof, but because there are different databases, we must make them compatible; I agree with Mr Wassenberg that we can raise fraud or deviations earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u20	If all these different registration systems know different units and they know different units, because they have a very different purpose then they are very difficult to align. The moment you have one system, you don't have one static number. Then you have one registration system: I have so many animals in my stable. If some animals die, they die. It's tracked. If animals are being transported, they'll go off too. You'll have one number, but that one number isn't static. This varies over time and should be checked. I think we can do that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u21	Let me take an example. I'm trying to get the lines together. Mr Futselaar asked a question about these 450,000 pigs. That wouldn't be administratively correct. This was about the transport movement between the Netherlands and Germany. In the Netherlands, an x-number of pigs had been exported to Germany, but in Germany they had a different number in terms of imports. We started to look at this by making a comparison between TRACES, the transport movement programme, and I&R. We thought, "How is it that things are different?" We saw that a number of moments when you're going through something determine the moment when you can see how many animals have gone out and how many animals have entered it. We are now going to automatically link that up so that there can be no difference. But precisely because of these different systems you also bring out a number of things that you can say: well, that's kind of weird. Can that be explained by the fact that certain systems are not properly connected to each other? Well, that was the case here. But it may also be a reason to say: hey, there is something behind this that we are not getting sharp; we should take a closer look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u22	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u23	Let me give you a concrete example. I would also like to mention the 15% mentioned in Article 22 of the Fertilisers Act. From my head there are 12 million pigs in the Netherlands. 15% of this is 1.7 to 1.8 million out of my head. Does this mean that if you have 13 million pigs one minute, there will be only 11.5 million? Will that be taken into account? Or does this simply mean that 15% more is constantly allowed than the permit permits?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u24	Animal rights shall determine how many animals a farmer may keep for an average period of one year. That means you can have more at some point. That may be up to 15% more. So an inspector, who comes along and finds that there are more than is on the permit, says: okay, this still falls within the bandwidth, within the margin of the Fertilisers Act; but at the end of the year it has to run around. For that to happen, the margin must have been reduced to zero. Once again, the number of animal rights has to be met as it is stated in the licence. For example, you can also look at this in terms of the agricultural census. You can also do that by focusing on maintaining once more if you are wondering if things are going well at some point. But the real point is that the average of the year has to be according to the license, with outliers going up and down, with a bandwidth in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u25	The Minister says that we must maintain it. But the Minister does agree with me that an average check every 30 years, I believe that 2,7% of companies are controlled, and that this does not really mean a very high probability? In her letter, the Minister also states that in one year almost 60% of farms are keeping exactly: 58% more animals than is allowed and 42% more animals over a number of years? That's a huge number, isn't it? Doesn't that justify much more intensive controls than 2.7% visits a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u26	This is a broader discussion that we have more often about the capacity of NVWA. In addition, I always say: the NVWA carries out risk-based supervision. So just by looking at those databases, by creating that link and by looking at whether there are differences in them that are actually difficult to explain, the NVWA gets information to maintain at a specific company. Then you also have the enforcement by the environmental services. I shall come back to that in a moment, because some specific questions have also been asked. So the fact that not all companies are visited has a reason, namely because you have already made a selection in it. I would also be very much in favour of continuing to do so, because otherwise we can really put an inspector on every company. Then I think we in this Chamber are having another discussion, if I can find all those inspectors. Those cross-checks help make that risk-oriented insight. This year, the NVWA also carries out a peer measurement in pig farming, by means of random physical checks. So that's really something that's being monitored. But the moment they come by, they will also check for animal rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u27	Finally, Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u28	A very small question. The minister says, "Check risk-oriented." Her reply also shows that there are random checks. It concerns 123 cases. In 26% of those random checks, which are random samples, infringements are detected in the number of animals. More than a quarter of farmers therefore have more animals than is allowed, even taking into account that 15% of the Fertilisers Act. That's a huge number, isn't it? Then you should be able to control the whole sector risk-oriented, right? 26% is not...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u29	Mr. Wassenberg, this is not a short interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u30	I thought so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u31	Yes, but you did five in a row. So it's okay now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u32	Risk-based supervision, random checks; 26% is not 100%. I really just want to say that. I am not saying that it is little, but it is also not just to check on all the companies on a continuous basis. That's what we really need to do. And we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u33	The question is, of course, whether what the Minister thinks is right is good enough. Because, of course, in the past, we've just seen outwashing. Phosphate rights have been issued for unauthorized animals. Think also of the overruns mentioned by Mr Wassenberg. At the same time, we are trying to stack one system onto another. First we had phosphate rights registration. Now we need the nitrogen chamber back in a database. Is the Minister prepared to explore whether it could all be simpler and more effective? Because the judicial chain also sends out compelling signals that the chances of getting caught are small and that the financial interests are large. Public interests are also great. We must reduce nitrogen emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u34	This is in line with Mr Moorlag's question as to whether enforcement makes sense in the context of nitrogen. Of course. Enforcement is one of the things the cabinet is now considering. That's broad, by the way. This applies not only to agriculture but also to industry. It applies to all sectors. It looks at what is being done in relation to what has been granted. That's really something we're looking at right now. But I have just tried to explain in some detail why we have opted for a better link between the systems. Just the cross-checks between those systems provide the information you can get the questions up. But I say this without undermining the importance of enforcement, because I fully agree with that, just like Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u35	Mr Moorlag, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u36	Is the Minister also prepared, for example, to consult with the judicial column? There are also just experiences with chance of taking and enforcing. I think we should take these signals seriously. Is the Minister prepared to do a reconnaissance of that and inform the Chamber about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u37	These discussions with the judicial chain are also ongoing, precisely in the context of the Enhanced Enforcement Strategy. In addition, the D.A. is sitting at the table. They are simply associated with this and give their findings, allowing us to look again at how we can improve our enforcement strategy. I therefore believe that the question put by Mr Moorlag is already being answered in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u38	I have a brief question about cross-checks, as the Minister describes in practice. Is this about: we have a case in which we have distrust or think that something is not right; we throw it into the different systems and we see if there is something rolling out that is not right? Or is it about: we have different datasets; we're going to compare them and we're going to take out all the companies where we think there's something wrong? Because that is a very different approach. If you're just looking at risk-oriented, like the NVWA continues, you might miss a lot, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u39	That's a very specific question about how the cross-checks take place. If I want to get a very specific answer to that, I have to do so in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u40	That's reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u41	I had already started answering the questions of some of your Members, including Mr Wassenberg. Mrs Bromet says: there are actually different services, the NVWA, RVO and the environmental services; to what extent are things aligned? It also specifically asks about enforcement by local authorities. With regard to the enforcement by the local authorities, she mentioned that the 'administrative spaghetti', I believe it is also very important for us that the environmental permits and the nature permits are simply enforced properly. We have just talked about this in the context of the problem of nitrogen, but that is more important, because it is precisely in the permits issued by the provinces that state how many animals can be present. The municipalities and provinces are in most cases competent and responsible for this enforcement. This is in most cases re-invested with the environmental services, which are also specialised in this area. I also read the newspapers, but I also hear signs that enforcement is not always enough. I do think it is important to discuss these signals with the provinces and the municipalities. The Minister of Housing and Environment is the first contact person, the contact point, from the cabinet. But I, too, regularly talk to local authorities about enforcement. I would also like to look, together with Mr van IenW and the Minister for the Environment and Housing, at what these environmental services need to do even better. As a result of Mrs Bromet's question, I can promise that we will have that conversation to hear very specifically where that need is, so that we can also help them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u42	I like that commitment. I also have a question about this control and enforcement. We have an x number of livestock farms in the Netherlands. How often in so many years do you run into a farmer from one of those enforcement agencies on your yard? Or do ten years go by without anyone coming by?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u43	I don't know the exact answer, because it's different from one province to another. It will also have to do with the risk assessment made by the provinces themselves. Just as NVWA does risk analyses, the environmental service will also look at where the risk is considered to be greatest. If you're asking me how many times someone gets to the yard, I can't give you that exact number.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u44	I was a little freaked out by the 76%. That actually means that a quarter of livestock farming is in violation. I think that's a hell of a deal. I therefore expect that one of these agencies will come along to the companies where infringements are committed until it is really in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u45	I don't rule out that happening either. But again, that's information from the environmental services that I don't have directly at my disposal right now. However, I have made a commitment that I will also talk to those environmental services to see what they need in order to fulfil their role properly. I have just answered Mrs Bromet's questions about the adjustment of the system and one system. Then I come to Mr Moorlag's questions. We have just talked about enforcement, also in the context of nitrogen. He asks me if I am prepared to have the Remkes Committee specifically look into this. I asked the Hordijk Committee to look at the system of calculation and measurement. That committee is also just looking at what deposition really takes place in practice. That may also sometimes be a reason to see how this relates to what we expect on the basis of what is in the permits. The Remkes Committee is almost at the end of its opinion and is now really looking at the long-term perspective to see what is needed for this. However, I did say that the government recognizes once again the importance of maintaining licences in width, not only in agriculture, but also in all other sectors, and that we are also looking at what is still needed to ensure that this is well protected, also in the context of the whole problem of nitrogen. Mr Moorlag asked a specific question about the policy measures in the context of corona. I get that question. It sounds like a U-turn, but there's a link somewhere. For example, if areas are closed down, pressure can be placed on a company, but also on food supplies in general, not just on businesses but also on citizens. People will want to eat and there will be enough supplies, etc.? So our department is also fully connected to the corona crisis staff, especially for these aspects, so that we also set out the scenarios there to ensure that, if this were to happen, we would be prepared, which I do not hope will be prepared for. This is, of course, important, not only in the context of food supplies but also, for example, in the context of animal welfare, as Mr Moorlag himself pointed out. Mr Moorlag also made a link between yesterday's news on NVWA's IG and supervision and enforcement: are they sufficiently secure? I think that the NVWA's IG itself has indicated what its justification for its decision was. He made that clear to me, too. I do not think there is any point in continuing the debate on this matter. I come to the questions of Mr Graus, who has asked a number of specific questions. In the context of Stable Safe, he asks: what is happening there? It is true that Mr Graus has often drawn attention to this. We are working on a letter on how we want to proceed in the file of the barn fires, which is additional to that. I shall return to Mr Graus's question on Stable Safe. In mid-May I received a letter on animal welfare. The letter about barn fires is a little early. I think we'll take this question with us in the letter of the barn fire. So in a few weeks' time, I can go into that a little more closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u46	Thank you to the Minister for the commitment. Perhaps the minister, or at least the minister's team, can send that they are not going to bet too much on sprinklers and stuff, because they are making things worse. Those animals will choke even faster. They really need to be able to run. That's what every person does. For example, if there's a fire in a hotel, you're gonna run first. You're not gonna wait for the sprinklers to do something. It's always gone. You can do that through that Stable Safessytem. For example, pigs can flee because the bulkheads fall out due to the underpressure of the feeding system. It all costs almost nothing. The insurance companies want to think about it. I hope that the Minister really exerts that pressure from above, because that is what is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u47	The fact that sprinklers are not always the solution because they can also lead to suffocation is well known to us. When looking at which systems fit there, we also take this kind of thing into account. We did a pilot with Stable Safe, and I'll inform the Chamber about that, as I said. Mr Graus also asked about the use of the animal police in more enforcement in livestock farming. The animal police have no role in the regular enforcement of livestock farming. That's what the NVWA and the local government are doing, as we reported earlier. The division of tasks between the NVWA, the Member and the animal police is precisely the way to ensure that there is a real focus on what you really want the animal police to do, including, of course, cases where there are obvious animal welfare and animal health violations. That does not have to be the case when there are differences in numbers on a company. We really want to be able to use that in a targeted way. The capacity is also limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u48	I fully agree with the Minister on that last point. I know the NVWA and the animal police are already working together on illegal dog trafficking and illegal dog fighting. But what I also think is very important... Besides, it's not like... I myself once again, as a Member of Parliament, together with Minister Opstelten, at that time we were allowed to contribute to that entire covenant. The animal police can interfere anywhere where animals are, anywhere. The fact that the NVWA has the lead in this is something else. The animal police are allowed to interfere with anything in the event of animal suffering. I would like it, because this Minister's veterinarians are being intimidated by his NVWA veterinary surgeons. A female veterinarian was wounded the other day. She suffered a head injury. They just smashed her into the plain and locked her in a booth, intimidated her. It just can't be. If there's an animal policeman or woman there, they grab a baton and have pepper spray, a taser and I know what's going on, they just go for the axe. That doesn't happen if there's a policeman or a woman. We need to protect our vets from those fools who intimidate our vets. That's very rude artillery. That's a rude crowd. We must protect our veterinarians from this and with it our animals too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u49	I fully recognise that violence against veterinarians is really unacceptable in this particular case, but in any case against people employed by the government, who carry out tasks on our behalf, is incredibly unacceptable, that we should not accept that. In this particular case, there has also been action against this. Again, regular enforcement does not necessarily have to say that there is animal suffering or animal cruelty. We are talking here about a case where there may be too many animals on a farm compared to the permit. I would argue that the animal police really should be involved in the matters that we do know are going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u50	Mr. Graus, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u51	This is a very important point, because not only animals are in trouble, but also the people of the minister, vets of NVWA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u52	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u53	They're just intimidated. The problem is, as a vet, when you say, "I squeeze him, I'm scared," it's said, "Go find another job." That's the way it is. These people have been trained; they have often studied for eight years and know all about animals, animal diseases and prevention. Those people aren't boas or general detectives. They're not animal policemen. We cannot allow these people to operate under pressure and fear. Why don't you stand over there, on one of those slaughter lines, with all those guys' executioners? Especially when you're a woman. It's just not good. So just put an animal policeman or woman next to those high-risk companies out there. When that happens, it's end of practice. Trust me. It'll be over in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u54	We have this discussion more often. That is also right, because I am saying it again and we simply have to deal with our people well. Here's what I'm suggesting. We will soon have a wider debate on NVWA again, when we have sent documents concerning the rethinking and the like to the Chamber. I suggest that we continue this discussion. Mr Graus also referred to the professional ban. He's drawn attention to that many times. That is something that is really being taken action on. It's with my colleague from JenV. The question is this: is the bill on the self-preservation ban not allowed to keep animals private? The draft law will be sent to the Council of State for advice at the end of spring. So that bill is rolling. It's with JenV's colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u55	A enlightening question from Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u56	Do I hear the Minister say that if, for example, a pig farmer who tortures his pigs gets a professional ban, then he is not allowed to keep animals in private? That was my question. There are pig farmers who torture their pigs, which also happens in abattoirs, but have private ordinary dogs and rabbits. That should not be possible anymore. When you deal with your animals like that, you don't have to get your hands on a dog or a rabbit. That's my question. They're sick idiots, and you don't change them; they're private but at work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u57	Let us also continue this discussion when the bill is in the Chamber. Then Mr Graus can see how further this has been done. Moreover, there is already the possibility of a ban on working time. This is also an additional condition in the case of, for example, a criminal offence. And the bill is specifically about an independent restraining order. But let Mr Graus continue that discussion with JenV's colleague when the bill arrives. Mr Futselaar had already asked a question about the administrative difference between these 450,000 pigs. I have the answer to that. I have also just received the answer to the question of exactly how these cross-checks take place. That's been passed on now, so I'll do it right away. The cross-checks are done according to the second line as outlined by Mr Futselaar, so the second way. Different complete datasets are set against each other. That's where companies roll out where there's a difference, which could be a sign that something's not right. Those companies are passed on to the inspectors for risk-oriented inspection and then the NVWA looks at how it continues to deal with it. That also answers the question. Mr Futselaar asked if I could say something about the large gaps in the system. I just mentioned him about the difference between Traces and I&R. We started with sheep and goat in 2019 with a quality stroke, so that we are going to get the same regime as cattle, to ensure that the data contained in the systems is more accurate. In this way we are also trying to make the links better where they should be. Because that's the case sometimes. Then coordinate the datasets. Is there enough time for that? At the moment you're gonna make the couplings better, and we're gonna do that on parts, it's also gonna make you work more effectively later. That is another advantage in the enforcement chain. For example, we have already improved the demand in the agricultural census, so that we can see exactly what we want to know. When we do the cross-checks and come up with things that we wonder if we are well connected to, we look at again. The focus is really on ensuring that the databases connect better. And that can lead to increased effectiveness later in the chain. I have already answered the question about the individual registration of pigs. So, Mr President, I think I have answered all the Members' questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u58	Mr Futselaar has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u59	Yes, because those cross-checks are about the datasets that are present at the Ministry of LNV. But, of course, permits are issued in practice by provinces under the Nature Protection Act, and by municipalities when it comes to the size of stables. Of course, all these data are directly related to animal numbers and everything that has to do with them, and, as far as I can see, the Minister does not have a direct view of them. Isn't it wise to combine them with the datasets that LNV does have?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u60	We are also looking at that; indeed Mr Futselaar has a point. Those are two different competent authorities. I have information and the provinces have information. And it is precisely in the context of the reinforced enforcement strategy that we are now also looking at how we can connect these issues. There are still some issues surrounding the GDPR, I say in all openness. In that we are still looking for ways to do that right. But it's true, and that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u61	That's good, because frankly, that saves another motion. But as far as I am concerned, this is not just about enforcement. This is also about policy making. Let me give you an example. In the nitrogen crisis, we had the discussion about stable capacity, but I do not think the Minister can say, for example, how much stable capacity is actually left in Friesland. The Minister doesn't have that information. It's kind of hard when you say in the context of nitrogen that you want to use stable capacity when it comes to latent space externally, but you can't tell how much latent space there is in practice. So I think this is really something that we, both the Chamber and the Minister, ultimately need in order to be able to pursue very specific policies in this type of case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u62	But with that, you're going to make information that isn't always accessible to everyone, so it's going to make it accessible to everyone. Then I will also deal with issues surrounding the GDPR. But I am going to deal specifically with the question of nitrogen. Of course, it's not like I'm making policy on nitrogen on my own. That's exactly what I'm doing with the provinces. Those provinces have, if it's okay, a view of what exactly happens in a province. Then, of course, it is the discussion I have with the provinces in which they bring in their information, in that kind of conversation. Is it therefore necessary that all that information that is in the province, and which therefore also has privacy aspects, is available equally to everyone, also to check that the policy is good? I would like to say that what is of the provinces is of the provinces and what is ours is ours. We must ensure that these links are good and that we can take steps, for example, in enforcement. Where policy-making is concerned, we can also, in practical terms, come a long way with good agreements. This is now also apparent in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u63	Rounding up. I really understand the privacy aspect, but these are very big issues. I am not concerned with individual cases, but rather with the general situation. For example, you could also place an external body like the CBS in a position to combine different data sources. The government itself should not do so, because it has too many interests, but if you have a policy question what about here, for example? Then you can ask an external partner. Such discussions also deal with other issues of datasets that may or may not be combined with each other. You'll have a little more distance. Let me just say that this is a possibility in the discussion that is being held; let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u64	Thanks for the suggestion. Wherever we can, we will really study it, but I would also like to draw attention to really privacy sensitive information. Again, this applies not only to farms, but to a lot of permits granted in the provinces. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u65	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. Then we'll have a short second term. First, Mr Wassenberg of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that animal husbandry data are introduced in different ways and in different systems, such as the numbers of animals present on a livestock holding, the production rights available to a farmer, the mortality of animals in the stables and the export of animals abroad;]] [[noting that this method leaves a great deal of scope for infringements and oversight;]] [[calls on the Government to present a proposal for a single central registration of animal numbers for all animal species and to send it to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1086]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u67	The next motion I can make at a slightly slower pace. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Article 22 of the Fertilisers Act allows 15% more animals to be kept in pig and poultry holdings than the holding has rights to animals;]] [[Whereas this creates uncertainty as to the exact numbers of animals;]] [[Whereas this means that the number of animals in the Netherlands can be structurally 15% higher than the number of animal rights allowed;]] [[calls on the Government to remove this provision from the Fertilisers Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1087]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u69	Mrs Bromet, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u70	Mr. Chairman. I don't have a motion. I had to think about an interview I had just before I became a candidate chamber member. I argued that I was hoping that I could make the world a little easier, because it is already complicated enough. I tried to do that today. I see the Minister is working on optimising existing arrangements. Whether the world becomes simpler and more controllable will have to prove later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u71	Thank you. Mr Moorlag, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. It's going according to a certain template. Of course, the rules must not be violated. We're looking at it. We're working hard on it. In Prince's Day language, it is a matter of constant concern and constant attention. That makes me feel a little unsatisfying. I think that the Minister should really seize the nitrogen crisis as a crowbar in order to achieve a better system of registration and a better system of monitoring and enforcement. In my first term, I said that keeping too many animals causes emissions and a great competitive disadvantage for entrepreneurs who are in good faith. I hope the Minister will take advantage of the nitrogen crisis to make a real leap in this. I think there's an assignment for the Chamber as soon as the Remkes Committee has come up with its opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u73	Mr. Graus, do you have a question for Mr. Moorlag?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u74	No, Madam President. I'm gonna give up my term, but I just wanted to thank the Minister for her commitment. Then I won't have to stand there anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u75	Good. Thank you. Finally, Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had a motion ready to say that the datasets at LNV had to be connected to the municipal and provincial licensing systems, but I think the Minister said almost literally that she's watching that, so I'm not going to file that motion. I would like to ask her to say something about when we may be informed of what is coming out of that, so somewhere someday a letter. I would like to have that recorded, because then we have a benchmark. I understand the concerns about privacy with these things. I certainly do not think that all the data should be made public, but I do think that as a government you can really set certain limits to prevent you from getting that kind of issues. There are huge policy issues behind this that we might be able to steer a little more with more hard data.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u77	Thank you. I'm looking at the minister. Can it respond directly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u78	Yes, I can. The answer to the last question, namely when the Chamber can be informed, will undoubtedly be given live during the answer. Well, at least I can get started. Firstly, the motion in part No. 1086 by Mr Wassenberg on the unambiguous central registration. I have already indicated in the debate what my considerations have been, so I would advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u79	The motion in part No. 1086 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u80	In the motion in part No. 1087 states: "whereas the number of animals in the Netherlands can be structurally 15% higher than the number of animal rights allowed." That is factually incorrect. It is not the case that the animal rights system may be exceeded by 15%. On an annual basis, the livestock must comply with the quantity of animal rights. This 15% reflects the fluctuations in the animal numbers that can occur during the year and not on the average over the year. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u81	The motion in part No. 1087 is not recommended. Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u82	The Minister has indeed replied in the first period, but this is a matter of control. I'm not a statistician, but I know something about it. There is only 2.5% chance that a company will be controlled by the NVWA. If a holding is checked at any time and there are, for example, 15% more animals than the permit allows, then the chances are that it will be checked a second time to see if the number of animals is lower at any other time. There is no maintenance and control. So the number of animals has to be reduced. We do not believe that there should be at any time more animals in a stable than the number of animal rights permits. Again, without control, you have nothing and you stand empty-handed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u83	I have just tried to explain how we are working to strengthen the enforcement strategy, what resources we are using and how we are doing cross-checks. We also maintain risk-oriented. All these things put together, we're just closing it more. I have just said something about random physical checks that are going to take place. This in itself leads to a calculation of the chance of getting caught, if I say it very clinically, which allows companies to say: something is really going to happen here; I have to pay attention now. So that's what we're very focused on. At the same time, you need to keep some room for manoeuvre to ensure that certain companies when checked are not punished equally because they just have a few animals more or less. Hence the margin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u84	Mr Wassenberg, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u85	The Minister talked about random control, but 2.7% of companies are investigated per year. Thus, the probability that a company is randomly monitored twice is 2.7% times 2.7%, i.e. 0.07%. In practice, therefore, this random check does not take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u86	The Minister, finally. You've already switched it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u87	That is quite special, because Mr Futselaar just referred to data from random checks, namely that 26% of them had been committed. So they do take place. Oh, it was Mr Wassenberg and not Mr Futselaar, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u88	26% above the 15% allowed by the Fertilisers Act, but I'm talking about the probability that a company will be checked twice in a year, randomly. That's what the Minister's referring to. I also mentioned that figure of 26%. That is what the Minister himself writes: 26% of companies are over 15%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u89	That's exactly why we're doing all these checks. That is why we have a reinforced enforcement strategy. That's why we're exchanging that data with each other, to make sure we get a better view of it. Then Mrs Bromet who aims to make life a little easier. I think that is a very good aim and I see that we do not always contribute to making life a little easier. Here I think we can make it easy without having to tear the whole thing apart, because that can give itself a lot of complexity. We always have to make that weighting. With the route we propose, the better sharing of each other's information, the cross-checks and automatic links, you can use the existing situation to make the overview easier. Maybe we'll find each other somewhere in the middle. Then Mr Futselaar on the dates. I have to make one actual correction. We're going to share within the area-based enforcement data between the supervisors. That doesn't necessarily mean that we're going to link all these datasets together, because then you'll end up in bigger GDPR issues. So we look within the GDPR what we can do to exchange those data with each other. You can do it this way. Every year I inform the Chamber about the progress of the enforcement strategy provided and then you can also find this information. You're gonna have to do it with that. Mr President, thank you for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u90	Thank you for coming to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-6.u91	The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I'm suspending until 1:30 p.m.
