ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on the adaptation of inspection reports. I would like to welcome the Minister for Justice and Security, as well as the people in the public gallery and those who follow this debate in a different way. We begin with Mr Van Nispen's contribution on behalf of the SP. He is the applicant for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here we go again. Thunder again at the Ministry of Justice and Security. The Justice Summit has put years of pressure on the inspection to adapt research results and to omit critical findings. Investigations into complaints about this have even been stopped. Of course, you can't do this. It also really pissed me off when I heard this. It is quite simple: we as a parliament simply want to know the truth. We're not detectives, are we, Minister? We need to be able to rely on the accuracy and completeness of the information we receive, from all ministries, but certainly also from independent institutes, such as the inspections and the WODC. I don't need any reports censored by the Justice Summit. Of course, we need to know exactly what is going on, because telling the truth is not an option, but a duty. Only now has an investigation been started, after journalists have brought the whole thing out. That's two years too late. Why wasn't all signals investigated in 2018? 'Cause if anyone calls in, all the alarm bells have to go off, right? Then you must want to know the truth. Who's gonna stop that at a time like this? Why did the Minister deny that something was going on shortly after publication? Why is the Secretary-General of the Ministry still denying this today and is it said that it is all the media's fault? Now there will be an investigation into nine reports. It is about dealing with robbery crime, the use of the neck clamp in the arrest of Mitch Henriquez and the admission of refugees who are in possession of torture videos. These are politically sensitive reports. It seems that not the truth has been put first, but the image of the ministry and the image of the ruler. When are we going to get a ruling on this? Is there also an independent investigation of the prison hospital in Scheveningen, the Justice Centre for Somatic Care? The similar WODC affair already damaged confidence earlier. The whistleblower who brought this issue to the fore was extensively complimented by the Minister during a debate in the Chamber, but it turned out that a witch-hunt had been created at the same time. That was not a hunt for the real perpetrators who caused the WODC affair, but for the whistleblower, for the people who brought out these abuses. That's a real shame! How could this have happened? How does the Minister look back on the criminal investigation and its handling? Why haven't there been any excuses for everyone? The SP finds it unacceptable that the House for Whistleblowers has also been tapped by the Justice Department. That house must be a beacon of trust, where you can go to report wrongdoings and ask for advice. But the house is also bugged. That is why I propose today to make this impossible, as we have organized for the lawyers, for example. The House for Whistleblowers is not being bugged, period. Why should the trusted person in the ministry or the integrity coordinator be bugged as a by-catch in some kind of investigation? The fact that, after all these years, the Ministry of Justice is still not so close to the truth is very bad for confidence in politics. The culture that truth is an option, we have seen since Prime Minister Rutte's VVD began to run this ministry ten years ago. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the Prime Minister should have been able to answer for the situation which has arisen, because ten years of VVD are taking its toll; that is clear. We urgently need honest politicians and honest officials, for whom the truth is more important than the image of a ruler. Anyone who doesn't want to be part of it can actually just leave. You shouldn't start investigations into whistleblowers, but people who manipulated and covered inspection reports, and unleashed a witch hunt towards the whistleblower. Is that what's happening? Because these types should actually be dealt with. How about that, Minister? Are there any such investigations or departure procedures? What about, for example, the integrity coordinator, who played a bad role in investigating the whistleblower in the WODC affair and also seems to be wrong in adjusting the inspection reports? The question is, then, how will the Minister put his affairs in order at the Ministry of Justice and Security and whether the Minister has his ministry under control? We urgently need honest politicians and honest leaders. As far as the SP is concerned, there will be an external investigation into the top and culture of the Ministry of Justice and Security. The question is again: how is the Minister going to restore the broken trust? We urgently need genuinely independent inspections. We must be able to rely on independence. There must be no improper interference in the work of inspections, never, because the truth must come on the table, even if the Minister does not like it. In order to better position the Justice and Security Inspectorate and guarantee its independence, I make the following five proposals together with D66 today. One, reports are sent to the Chamber uncensored. Changes to reports should always be transparent and follow-up. Two: the inspection holds the communication and timing of investigations and reports in its own hands, without the department interfering. Three: the Justice and Security Inspectorate must become legally independent, as must, for example, the Security Research Council. Four: the inspection will have a separate budget, not only to be organizational but also financially independent. Five: the inspection must be placed remotely. So get her to move out of the Ministry. I would like a response from the Minister to these five proposals. In doing so, the SP would also be in favour of ensuring that the management of the inspection is as far out of the field as possible and not from the high-level civil servants pool. Someone who knows the domain knows what to look for. It will also have less regard for the political desirability of a certain outcome. I'd like a comment on that, too. Finally, Mr President. The SP sees that the problem is wider. For example, see the recent fuss about the critical report of the Inspection Environment and Transport, which was not published because the worrying outcomes did not come out well during discussions about the Environment Act. I would therefore be in favour of better positioning all inspections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u3	I hear Mr Van Nispen saying five things; I cannot follow them that quickly. But there's one thing I can't help noticing. That is that the inspection should be legally independent à la OVV. It seems ideal to me for the Minister, because then he is no longer politically responsible for it either. I think that saves him a lot of debates here in the Chamber. But it immediately raises the question: should we really want to do that, add another OVV, add another kind of public prosecutor, which we also keep a little distance from? The essence of an inspection, of supervision, is that the Minister can organise his own form of supervision, not just for this minister, but for each minister? If you make it independent, you're actually gonna turn the surveillance upside down, aren't you? That's not supposed to happen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u4	What Mr Van Dam is actually saying here is that, if you really make it independent, you're gonna turn your back on supervision. I think that's a very strange idea. On the contrary, I would like the inspection to be independent and better positioned. I made five proposals here. I brought them on paper, too. Since Mr Van Dam said it was a bit fast, it might be useful if I were to share them. Then you can all look at it quietly. If Mr Van Dam is now criticizing one of them, it would be nice if he did not support the other four, namely the separate budget, any more interference with the communication of an inspection, moving out of the building and sending the inspection reports uncensored to the Chamber. That would already be pure profit. But I think it would be wise to also make the inspection legally independent and to place it at a distance from the Ministry. We can still ask for an inspection to investigate one or the other. The Minister can do the same. We can do that at the O.V.V. We can do that at the General Court. You can always make requests. But Mr Van Dam doesn't really think that you shouldn't want the inspection to be independent?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u5	Given what Mr Van Nispen normally does, I find his reaction too easy, to be honest, because I am really looking for what it should look like. Of course, I also believe that the reports and the observations of an inspection, of any inspection, should be made independently and that the person being inspected should not touch them with his fingers. But I am concerned that, if I understand correctly, you may not want to change the overall nature of inspection by removing it from the Ministry and turning it into a separate type of control/surveillance service. This also means that we can no longer say to the Minister in the course of budgetary discussions: well, Minister, would you like to have the inspection carried out in the coming year specifically on this and on that and on that and on sister and on that? After all, it's out of his hands. Is that really your intention?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u6	Let's go back. We have this debate because of the fact that inspection reports have been tampered with, through the Ministry's summit. Now we come up with proposals to avoid this as much as possible in the future. You can never rule that out altogether, because you eventually need honest people who try not to interfere improperly. That's not gone if, for example, you move the inspection out of the Ministry. It's not gone if you make a separate budget for it. It's not gone if you make these legally independent. But I think that's gonna put up barriers and barriers to the remote inspection of a ministry. The possibility of getting in together or having to give that kind of political responsibility to the Minister is not so great that Mr Van Dam will have to confirm that if you make it legally independent. However, we will still have plenty of debates here in the Chamber on inspection reports, on the prison system, on TBs clinics, and I know a lot of things, as we do now. We're also having debates on OVV reports, aren't we? We also have debates on reports from the Court of Auditors, don't we? And questions are certainly open; certainly in future the Chamber will be able to say in a letter or whatever to an inspection of any subject it wishes to investigate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u7	I can imagine putting an inspection out of the house. In the case of separate information, I can imagine something. Perhaps I can also imagine something in a separate budget. But the moment you put on paper that you also want to remove the inspection from the Minister's legal responsibility, you will no longer have any supervision. Then you have a new external form. And I think it is important that a ministry itself should have its own form of supervision, just as, so to speak, all kinds of organisations of its own, such as governance and so on. I'm afraid that's gonna fail with this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u8	Now I'm gonna do something very unusual. I am just going to say here that I am going to think about this point, which Mr Van Dam raises here. I'm not saying that to be silly; I'm serious about that. However, I note that it is a gain when Mr Van Dam says: "I can imagine a lot when leaving the Ministry and I can imagine a lot in a separate budget. I also think it is a good idea for reports to be sent to the Chamber uncensored from now on and for the information and timing of reports to be kept in their own hands." If that were to be the result of the debate today, with which I did not say that legal independence is not a good idea, because I do think that is the case, then I think that we have already achieved quite a lot together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u9	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Three years ago, a number of staff members from the inspection threw off their nerves and reported that they felt unsafe, that they felt mistreated and that they were unhappy with the head's involvement and the head's place in research reports. Subsequently, the central coordinator looked into it and the problem was then very neatly limited to a matter of the style of leadership and the question of whether there was any undue external influence. However, I am very concerned about the extent to which there has been illegal influence. The complaint of the employees was that the management has interfered greatly with the investigations. In answer to the questions, the Minister says: yes, that is also allowed, to ensure that the quality and independence of the investigations is guaranteed. Of course, a supervisor can interfere. But how far can it go? Can they polish some results, or ask for some results to be pushed to the background? It strikes me that the Minister does not want to investigate the experienced internal pressure. My question is, why not? Because when I read about the investigations announced, only the external pressure will be tested, namely to see if the final reports, which came from the inspection department, were substantially different from the concepts sent to third parties. These were concepts that were sent, for example, to the authorities that were investigated. But would the Minister also like to have an investigation into whether, and how, executives have been directed towards politically desirable results? In this case, the managers shall be the head and deputy head of the inspection. For external pressure is not even necessary if a supervisor himself feels that the main purpose of the reports is to keep the minister out of the wind. So it's not about getting the government to learn from the mistakes that have been made, which is actually the purpose of the inspection, but rather to avoid any fuss. I think we can all agree that having an open culture, in which there is also a contradiction, is one of the most important things. That's also the goal of JenV Changed. I also see that germs of change have been sown in the Ministry, but it is not a straight path. I see other signals, too. I'd like to name it here today, because I'm worried about them. First of all, I am sorry to have to say that, and this is about the appointment of Mr Schoof at the top of the pyramid. I know we are not discussing individual officials here, but it is someone who also likes to get involved in the public debate. It is also someone who is known to have also put pressure on him to change some sentences into an independent report. In order to remain within our duties, my question to the Minister is: was there a profile made when the post of Secretary-General of JenV came vacant? Is it public? What competences were requested in the procedure in support of the JenV Change? Has there also been any explicit consideration of the need for a Secretary-General to ensure independent investigation? The second signal that concerns me is the words of a senior official to a large group of staff. I quote: "I try, say, not to send the ADR report to the House of Representatives either. That's what I agreed with Grapperhaus, because everything you read there gives rise to new questions. Then this is completely out of control." Or "off the bend," I must say. Minister Grapperhaus' answer to questions is: 'I never made an agreement on this matter'. Fine, I'll buy that. But I do want to know if these words have been spoken. Is this the signal to that group of employees? What was then done to take away the wrong impression that gives you absolutely if you want to promote an open culture?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u11	Mrs Buitenweg qualified that quote of "for a moment discussed with Grapperhaus; don't send it to the House of Representatives, because then things get out of hand." If I hear it correctly, Mrs. Buitenweg said "out of the bend." Is this the toughest qualification Mrs Buitenweg can give to that quote?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u12	This was the end of the quote. He said, "And then this goes all the way down the bend." So that was what...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u13	Can I ask Mrs Buitenweg what her qualification is, if this quote is correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u14	I find it absolutely very worrying if this quote is correct. I hear on the one hand that it is said "we are in the process of cultural change and that is why we have changed the whole JenV trajectory." I also see that there are really good things happening there. At the same time, I am now pointing out a number of things that I see are actually opposite signals. This worries me, because I do not think that officials will come forward at all in france and free to ring the bell if they think this is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u15	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u16	A third point I would like to mention concerns the composition of the Committee on Integrity. I cannot judge the qualities of the individuals, but also here it is an impression that you give if there are people in it who have not managed to help whistleblowers for some good reason. Finally, I would also like to mention the declaration of the leak in the WODC affair. Mr Van Nispen just said the same thing. At that time, only a criminal investigation was conducted into this leak. These are all contraindications to the open culture that the minister confesses with his mouth. It's almost like you're saying, "Most importantly, report domestic violence. That's possible with someone who's a good friend of the killer or someone who's never helped a victim before. And you already know that you may also have a criminal investigation against you, but you should do it most of all." Not only procedures, but also signals are of great importance. I have two final points. Firstly, the staff of the inspection are in a complicated position in those towers; Mr Van Nispen just said something about that. They have to do research, but they also know that a lot of other employees, who also work with heart and soul, are not always waiting for these investigations. The result is that they see everywhere, in the elevator, at the canteens, at the gates, people looking at them with crooked faces. I agree with the proposal of the SP and D66 that it is wise to place the inspection outside the rest of the ministry. I can honestly say that I also have some doubts about the legal position; I would also like to discuss this further in a moment. But I agree with the other proposals. The last thing I want to say is that the Justice and Security Inspectorate only existed since 2012. It is a combination of two different services, which were very different from one another. My question to the Minister is whether there are plans for the new organisation to be fully independent, for example on the quality of work and on the culture of contradiction that has been organized there. If those plans aren't there yet, I'm considering tabling a motion for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u17	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I now give the floor to Mr Markuszower on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u18	Mr. Chairman. How deep have we sunk as a land? How unimaginable is it that a parliament in a country like the Netherlands should debate with the Minister on a subject titled "Adjusting Inspection Reports"? The fact that not one, but countless inspection reports have been modified. The fact that it has now become clear that the Minister and his officials are messing with reports and, as a result, throwing everyone on the wrong foot and fooling around. The fact that we, members of the House of Representatives, can no longer rely on the information the government sends us. The fact that someone as a professor Geert-Jan Knoops, both in the Netherlands and abroad, clearly says that he has little faith in our rule of law. The Mafia culture is leading everything this ministry does and decency is long gone in this ministry. If this minister had any decency of his own, wouldn't he have sent all those cheaters home by now? I thought you said a decent minister had really intervened a long time ago. However, that is not what the Minister is doing. Employees of the Scheveningen prison hospital live in fear, but their complaints are arrogantly swept away. Those complaints don't appear in the reports. The minister's covering up his associates feeling unsafe. The Minister obscures the fact that essential parts of his ministry and his services are not functioning. Because of this cover-up many Dutch people think that the safety of the Netherlands and of themselves is in order. The Dutch think that is wrong. A ministry called Justice and Security, a ministry that should be the guardian of the democratic rule of law, a ministry that should keep the Netherlands safe, is now once again home to the biggest criminal gang. Mr. Chairman. I don't just use these words. The information that has been cheated, the reports that have been modified and the facts that have been distorted are all serious matters. Tens of thousands of asylum seekers enter our country, but we must not know that among those asylum seekers, who should not even enter the Netherlands as far as the PVV is concerned, child pornography and torture were found on their phones. Even worse, there are potentially life-threatening terrorists in these migratory flows. All that information was muffled out of the reports. The Netherlands is just being lied to. In addition, due to the slow processing of asylum applications, the Immigration and Naturalisation Service must pay EUR 1 million per week to asylum seekers. However, until recently, the responsible State Secretary covered these figures. A civilian is killed by a police clamp. The inspection report has been modified. Has the government acted correctly in the aftermath of MH17? We'll never know, because the NCTV chief, like mob bosses do, bullied, intimidated and threatened, and so the report was modified. Mr. Chairman. All this is just a selection of the reports that have been modified. Today's debate should be about the fact that the Minister is rewarding mafia behavior, messing and clumsy with beautiful new jobs and, for example, bell-blowers intimidating and firing. Whistleblowers are often heroes. They see abuses and are prepared to report wrongdoings. Everyone knows that if you keep sweeping garbage under the carpet, you'll end up creating a huge stinking mess. Whistleblowers are prepared to lift the carpet so that it can be cleaned up. Whistleblowers should be protected and cherished. But what does this minister do with whistleblowers? In the audience he beats his CDA arms around them and feigns that he provides them with the necessary security and protection. However, while the Minister feigns this, whistleblowers are being bugged and hunted. They get fired and intimidated. Their complaints are being swept away. They are marginalized and eventually the organization is working out. The Minister has set up a new integrity committee. Here too, the Minister pretends that he is serious and wants to put his house in order. This is hypocritical. Two of the three upcoming directors of the new integrity committee had to leave earlier in the House for Whistleblowers. Then they solved a total of zero matters. There were many complaints about their actions and countless internal quarrels. They were assigned to facilitate whistleblowers, but they were blocking investigations that those whistleblowers were asking for. We in the House of Representatives can use very big words today and the Minister can, as he often does, look very solemnly and promise to get better. But as long as he promotes the perpetrators, the exponents of the Mafia, there's no point in a serious debate, is there? Then we know that the Netherlands will also be lied to in the coming years. Then we know that the Mafia culture is getting even more control over this ministry. Mr. Chairman. This ministry is so steeped in the culture of cheating and cheating that it's everywhere. Like a virus, it infects anyone who comes into contact with this ministry. For example, yesterday in De Telegraaf we read that the VVD member Yeşilgöz is all playing antics to get on TV and in the newspaper, to promote her own ideas, but also to play the two ministers against each other through a ruse at this ministry and to push their own minister forward at the expense of the CDA minister via bribery tactics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u19	Your phone's ringing. Who is that, Mr. Markuszower?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u20	I have no idea. Listen and cheat, from the ministers and their officials, in the reports we get as Chambers. Listen and cheat between the two ministers in this ministry. List and deception of MPs of the VVD against their own coalition mates. Listen and cheat at the ministry where truth and justice should reign. What an embarrassing display! Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands deserves better than being run by this mob gang. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u22	Mr. Chairman. I have decided to stand up every now and then and to say it if I don't like things in the tone of the input.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u23	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u24	Where the honourable representative of the PVV is constantly talking about mafia culture in relation to the functioning of officials in our Ministry of Justice and Security, I would like to say that I fully wish to distance myself from that kind of qualifications.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u25	The question is, of course, whether I should respond to this, but the question you can ask is also: how does Mr Van Dam classify it as reports, if the truth cannot come out, if a professor such as Geert-Jan Knoops, a criminal officer who is recognised internationally and as such in the Netherlands, no longer trusts in the rule of law? What qualification would Mr Van Dam give to all these facts? If Mr Van Dam himself became a minister, would he agree to amend reports so that the House of Representatives is not told the truth? So that the Netherlands won't hear the truth? So we'll never all know things that the Netherlands should have? What would Mr. Van Dam do himself if he were a minister? Or does he agree that reports will be modified, that people like Julio Poch with the influence of the Ministry have been prosecuted, that Geert Wilders will be prosecuted? These are all examples you don't want in a country like the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u26	It is that Mr Markuszower explicitly asks me about it, but I would advise him to consult Knoops, how his substantive criticism is contained in words that are much more appealing to me than the words that Mr Markuszower used for that purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u27	Okay, so I understand that Mr Van Dam actually agrees with what I am saying, but not so much with the tone I am saying. Well, that's a fine compliment from Mr Van Dam. Thank you for that!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u28	I do sympathize with Mr Van Dam. We are standing here to criticise what we think has happened, namely that independence has been compromised, that a number of reports have actually been cleaned up. But if you do that right now as "mafia practices," then there is nothing left to do about it, while I think we are right here to hold the Minister to account, assuming that it can really be done better and that those reports can be written independently, but that it still needs the right culture change. My question to the PVV is: is there any hope that there can be a change in this whole organisation, or is it hopeless according to PVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u29	I entirely agree with Mrs Buitenweg: we are not here to call it names. We're here to see how we can make it better. And I'm sure it all has to be better and better. I will also table a motion in the second term, and I believe that I have also included this in my text and mentioned it in Mrs Buitenweg's text, which states that this culture must be addressed. How do you do that? Among other things, by not promoting those who have been cheating, who have failed or who have been cheating and cheating. You're gonna have to fire him. They shouldn't be running around that ministry anymore. They have to work outside the government. But unfortunately, the Minister is promoting these people. Unfortunately, they keep getting new functions. You must punish those who do not act properly, but you must protect those who bring that misery out so that we and the media and the minister himself get the right information. So now reward and protect the whistleblowers, and punish and fire those who have proven to have changed reports or ordered them or threatened or intimidated them. Those are mafia practices; I don't know what else to call it. If you find that word so annoying, put another word on it. But I don't think we disagree at all in terms of content.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u30	We agree on a number of things, but I would like to say that my criticism stems from a kind of hope and expectation that that organisation is well able to make that change, when something you qualify as a mafia is so out of the rule of law that I absolutely do not want to pretend that we are in line with it. We can therefore agree on a number of points of criticism. But I really assume, in essence, that the legal capacity in the ministry and in the public prosecutor's office, which you have just added, is very well guaranteed, but that there are also a number of things that need to be improved. I'd like to mark that difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u31	You did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u32	Yes. The D.A. is, of course, an essential part of this ministry. The Minister is also simply responsible for the D.A.'s office. So I certainly mentioned it for a certain reason. I think I have less hope at the moment than Mrs Buitenweg, because at the moment I see people sitting at key positions who have been proven to have been cheating or failing in the past, or who have tried demonstrably or even succeeded in changing reports or using prosecutions that are unjustified. In short, they have done all kinds of things that you do not want in a rule of law and that we as a Chamber should not tolerate. At the moment, therefore, I have less hope than Mrs Buitenweg, but that is not a problem either. The voters in the Netherlands have a choice: the naive Mrs Buitenweg van GroenLinks or the realistic PVV, who sees that things are just not going so well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u33	Thank you, Mr. Markuszower. I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u34	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, I did not have to write a new text for this debate, because the issue at the Ministry of Justice and Security seems to remain the same. Whistleblowers claim that years of research results have been adapted under pressure from officials and the field on which the JenV Inspection is to supervise. D66 considers this to be extremely serious, because the supervision of the inspection should be completely separate from political and administrative considerations. However, as with the WODC affair, officials of the department and of the research bodies seem to have been on top of it in order to mitigate unpleasant conclusions. In this way, confidence in the public authorities is eroding, because as a society, but above all as a Chamber, we must be able to rely on independent investigations of the inspection, with the facts and problems being put on the table. So it must not be the case that the bodies covered by that report are ready before the report itself makes suggestions for amending the conclusions. The same applies, of course, to policy officials. All these things happen informally. There are no notes, no minutes. The Audit Service, which has examined one issue, the issue of fire services, therefore states: "We have not been able to determine whether independence has been at stake because of the lack of commitment." There's a big problem there. There is a great lack of transparency. I therefore expect the Minister to take further action quickly. Mr Van Nispen has already spoken about this and my group is making a number of proposals together with the SP. First of all... Comments from policy departments, but also from research bodies, should be included in a public and follow-up annex, as we also see as standard in reports from the General Court. No more informal rehearsals. In addition, the inspection holds that the proposal is two-year-old communication on investigations and the timing of the presentation of those investigations in its own hands. The inspection does not have to wait for a response from the Minister before publishing. In order to do this properly, I believe that the JenV inspection should become independent or at least become more independent, so that the head of the inspection is no longer responsible to the minister. This includes financial independence and physical distance. I would like to receive a response from the Minister to those five proposals. Mr. Chairman. I also have questions about the Minister's actions, because the whole process of things has already been mentioned by a number of my fellow Members. How is it possible that there is such a similar case and that it is not being investigated to the bottom? After the first ADR report, the official summit decided not to investigate the complaints further, but it did, I understand, without the Minister knowing. It seems the minister had to read it literally in the newspaper a year later. He writes that he was informed on 28 January that it was the day of the publication "" that it was several reports in the reports of the whistleblowers." My question to the Minister is: how could you not have been aware of this? How does the Minister look back on the decision of the official summit to examine only one report and not the rest, partly given the fact that he has now decided to have those other reports examined? Does that not mean that the Minister would have wanted and should have been aware of that first decision with retroactive effect? I'd like a response from the Minister. What I also find striking, when I read the Minister's letter, is that the whistleblowers' reports about the other reports would not have been about influence, but about the management style of the inspection. I think that's crazy. In spite of the fact that these reports would not have been about influence, as the Minister writes, they are now being investigated. I quote from the letter: the inspection report on the asylum process is taken up as an examination of the initial report on this report. Then it turns out that the original report was also about external influence? Why else are the aforementioned research reports examined for external influence if, according to the Minister, that was not part of the whistleblower's notification? I am gradually getting a bit lost in the written answers we have received and also in the Minister's letter. I'm gonna ask him to explain it to me again. Finally, Mr President. I think this problem is broader. The problem keeps coming back. The tendency to brush away unpleasant conclusions and thus prevent them from becoming public and the ruler getting into trouble seems to be deep. The key question, in my opinion, is why is this happening? There is then a reference to the department. The NRC wrote last week about top officials as a caste of local stain removers. Everything is aimed at preventing accidents. The loyalty to the ruler comes first, not the general interest. But it was also said that directors can do something about it, that they sometimes make impossible demands on officials and that they tolerate too little contradiction. Again, the NRC said. Or should we, I wonder, look at ourselves as a Lower House? In every incident we jump on top, we call the Minister to the Chamber and then grumbling that the solution should have been there yesterday, often driven by the media. That too is perhaps an incentive to avoid all these incidents at all costs and to paint a more beautiful picture than the reality is. I myself estimate that it is a combination of these factors and I ask the Minister to reflect on them. As far as he's concerned, what's the cause of cleaning away those unpleasant conclusions? Because that's what's happening, I think we can establish. Does he recognize himself in the coverage of the NRC? Is he himself open to critical advice from his officials? The most important thing is that I conclude how we get out of here. How are we going to ensure that unpleasant information is put on the table so that we can have a political discussion about it openly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u35	Thank you, Mr. Groothuizen. I now give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u36	Mr. Chairman. Of course, I am starting this debate with the Roman poet Juvenalis, who is still often quoted. Today he is often cited and is therefore popular, but in ancient Rome his poison pen was feared. He was kind of the Arjen Lubach of his time. And even then, in the first century AD, much was the fault of the previous generation. From Juvenalis is also the verdict: who guards the guards? A statement that is also above this debate. Because if the guardian of the rule of law, the JenV ministry, could no longer do his work independently, something would go wrong. That raises the question of whether the guards of the guards of our rule of law are still safe. These are the officials of the Justice and Security Inspectorate. They must feel safe and they must be safe to play their role as critical louse in the fur of the JenV ministry. This seems to have been insufficient. The physical proximity and accommodation in the same building with lunches in the same canteen does not help in the opinion of the VVD. The power of the keyhole is the influence that a building and location have on human action and working pleasure. A basic fact that is systematically underestimated. My question is therefore: are the moving boxes already ready and by when does the moving message leave the door? We have a motion at this point behind our hands. Proposals have just been made for this. But I also think that the Minister believes that moving to a new workplace is a good idea. I would ask the Minister to involve the staff of the inspection as closely as possible in the choice and establishment of a new location. Can he promise that? When judicial officials report suspicions of leaks by other judicial officials, which then have to be investigated by other judicial officials, it also evokes images of a safe working culture. But politics and debate are about more than just images. The real question is this, and Mr Grothuizen just referred to this: is there room to make mistakes and report suspicions of wrongdoing? Applying pressure to change conclusions from inspection reports because they contain policy undesirable elements is contrary to this ambition and confirms that the closed culture is not yet dead and buried. That's what the VVD wants. Mistakes can not always go well, and especially in large implementation organisations under this Ministry, such as the IND, the DJI and the police. The role of the House of Representatives should not be to look for a snail on which we can put salt. However, we have agreed on a culture in which things that may not go well are negotiable. This requires, first and foremost, room for internal contradiction. The fact that officials could not turn to their superiors with complaints and it was necessary for them to bring out information from whistleblowers via the media shows that there is still too much of that space in this ministry. This doesn't fit in with a professional work culture in which professionals keep each other sharp. I would like to hear from the Minister how he is going to intensify a culture in which there is scope to keep each other sharp and contradict issues that are socially sensitive. I am concerned about the progress in the whole JenV Verwijst section. What milestones, according to the Minister, have already been achieved? And what are the milestones ahead? I read nice figures on employee satisfaction, at least a 7.5; I was not quite happy with that. What's the Minister doing in here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u37	It is, of course, a very legitimate question from the VVD how this culture in the ministry will be improved. The Minister will say in a moment that he thinks it is important. He'll nod and say, "Yes, the inspection has to move." We're gonna have this kind of debate. But I would actually ask Mr Van Wijngaarden to dig a little deeper. We are dealing here with the WODC affair a few years ago, in which independent scientific investigations were manipulated by the political summit of the Ministry of Justice and Security. After that, the people responsible were not dealt with. No, the whistleblowers have been dealt with. So the people who deserved a statue got a phone tap. Then we got the whole thing with the inspection reports, where those reports were also modified, actually by the same official summit. Investigating which reports they were, they've been discontinued. Surely this evokes a certain image of an official summit? We are now holding the debate with this minister, who is now politically responsible for this. We are not having the debate with those officials who make those mistakes. It is very much the question of how this minister is going to put things in order with these types of people, who seem not to be so close to the truth and integrity. I'm saying that because of everything that's happened. What is the VVD's expectation of this? How optimistic is she about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u38	Well, for optimism, frankly, I think it's too early, and I think we share that with each other. Mr Van Nispen also refers to the role of executives. I very much agree with that. I do not think that role should be underestimated. Indeed, we do business with the Minister, but the leaders are the ones who also have to ensure a safe culture in which there is room for contradiction and where there is also room for professional doubt. I've heard someone say, "The biggest mistake is the one you make alone." When people only make mistakes, they tend to cover those mistakes. And that's exactly what we don't want. Within such a ministry, there should be room to make mistakes. In any case, Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Groothuizen quoted that article in NRC Handelsblad. From that, the picture shows that executives in that ministry are in those places quite briefly. That's what I'm worried about. These are therefore the top officials, who are often also in the General Administrative Service. I'm a little worried that they're only in those places for a short time, because if you're in such a place for two years, for example, can you really set up and perpetuate such a safe culture that we want to have together? Isn't these people's orbital speed too high? I also have a few questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u39	We'll wait and see. It is a legitimate question whether the speed of circulation is not too high in certain cases. This is also about the subject matter of expertise. Are there lawyers out there? In my view, that should indeed be the case. But the opposite is also a risk. There are people who have been politically manipulated in the WODC affair, then played detective in the Ministry on the hunt for the whistleblower, and then also made mistakes in adjusting the inspection reports. Those same people have never apologized to the people who were wrongly eavesdropped. I say it again: they should have gotten a statue instead of a tap. They never entered into the conversation with these dupeds. That's incredible, isn't it? How can we ask the Minister to put these people in order, with these people who have been there for a few years now and who are responsible for manipulating, covering up and never apologizing to the people who have been hurt, and never really apologize to society as a whole? How can we create an open culture with these people in which mistakes can indeed be made and the clock can be sounded if necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u40	Mr Van Nispen asks me here: what should happen to certain people? I find that difficult, because I have business here with this minister, who also has the power to intervene in his ministry where necessary. I expect him to do that, too. So I expect that if certain people don't fit in, they might do something completely different outside the Ministry. There will be no debate where Mr Markuszower does not make that suggestion. Or the minister is looking for a job for such people who are better suited to them. That's what we're allowed to address this minister, and I just did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u41	Very good: learning from mistakes made and an open culture. I'm very much in favour of that. But let's look at what's happened in the past few years. We have discussed the WODC affair before, also with Minister Opstelten and the like. They have also explicitly influenced the failure to forward certain reports or to redirect them to content, e.g. the report on drugs. If we are trying to learn fairly from mistakes made, what error has been made here about which the VVD says: well, should we actually face that honestly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u42	There's an inspection. It has the function of louse in the fur; I just mentioned that. If you say that there is room for contradiction in an organization, then that inspection should simply be able to do its job completely independently. We have, of course, had a separate debate on the WODC before. We don't have to do that over here. But it has also been said: that WODC is incredibly valuable, but it must be able to do its job independently. I welcome everything that is needed for this and all the measures that contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u43	Mrs Buitenweg, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u44	Let me be more specific: does Mr Van Wijngaarden agree with me that the ministers of the VVD have also contributed to this culture in a negative way and that they have made sure that there was no culture of openness?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u45	I just don't think it's up to me in this place to go after all kinds of ministers from any party, to measure what they didn't do right. We are now having a debate with this Minister, whom I address.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u46	Mr Van Wijngaarden also says that culture must be different and that there must be a culture in which mistakes can also be made. Among other things, he quotes the series of articles from the NRC, but I read quite different things in that. For example, I also read things like "Within the official summit, the attitude is often: what you know, you suffer from it. There's a lot of unmailing and writing what should be. It's strategically recorded, so that if there are WOB requests or parliamentary questions, you can always say: I don't know anything about them." Isn't that far beyond individual civil servants who might make a mistake once? That goes beyond the culture of some departments, doesn't it? If you're reading this like that, isn't that just a whole rotten organization? There's a policy not to write things down. It is said: 'Minister Opstelten must also be able to say that it is all new to him and that he must still study it.' In this case it was about Minister Opstelten, but it does not really matter which minister it is about. That goes far beyond the culture of some civil servants, doesn't it? That whole organization is rotten, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u47	To say that the whole organization is rotten... Tens of thousands of people work at that organization. This organisation includes implementation organisations such as the police and the Judicial Institutions Service. Those are huge organizations. Tens of thousands of people work in all these separate implementation organisations alone. I think that if we put that whole club, where things are indeed not going well and what I have just talked about extensively, we will fail the people who are doing their best every day and who are on the front line of security. Whether it's people in TBs clinics, cops, prison guards or people who transport prisoners from A to B, I'm thinking, get on it. It is difficult work, it is hard work and it is not free from risks, as we have seen very recently with a hostage situation. So I just don't think it's okay to put that whole club, where all these people work, like shit, because that's their club, too. I don't think that's how we're gonna help the Ministry. I do not think we should govern the Netherlands either by always pressing for dismissal or by throwing organisations away like rotten. That comes down to a bit of cursing, like "it's no good and it's no good," but you really don't get any further with that. I think we should try to get on with each other. We all have our complaints about that ministry. They may also be on the table today, but the people sitting there are our people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u48	The latter is absolutely true. All the people who work there deserve all our praise and support, but of course they cannot function if we trivialize it here in the Chamber. And Mr Van Wijngaarden does that by saying that of course not everything is going well. That's a euphemism, considering what I just read. Let me put it this way: at the top of the ministry, of course, things are not going well. If the structural culture is there to hide things, to change reports, not to record anything, especially not to email each other, especially not to inform the minister, because he would then have knowledge of things and would have to inform the Chamber, then can you say it is rotten? That goes beyond saying: something goes wrong here and there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u49	Well, I think that... Look, I'm not playing down anything anyway. I'm far from it. I agree that, if you want to go to an open culture, you also need openness to the House of Representatives. But that also requires something from the Chamber itself; I think Mr Grothuizen said that well. It requires that, at some point, we are not just trying to see if there is another snail that we can put salt on, because it can happen that something goes wrong with one of those implementing organisations. Take, for example, the TBS sector. Of course, that's the hardest thing there is, because that's all based on estimates. Well, that's kind of a bad thing, too. Yea, the people that work there are also like men; they also make mistakes. I believe that we, as a Chamber, should also consult ourselves: how do we then deal with this openness?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u50	Mr Markuszower, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u51	Finally, yes. Mr Van Wijngaarden is all saying things that nobody can disagree with, but he is moving away from the real problem. He is now focusing on the errors in the implementation organisations. Everyone in the Netherlands understands that where a lot of people work, sometimes something doesn't go well or that we might say that something is not going well when things are going well. I understand that, but that's not what we're talking about today, is it? We are talking about the fact that the Minister's summit, not only this minister, but also all his predecessors, and the top of the officials, are systematically cheating and cheating. This is being quietly avoided by saying that some things go wrong with one of the implementation organisations, with one of the lower officials or with a police officer somewhere in the field, but I am not talking about that at all. I don't think anyone's talking about that except the VVD representative.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u52	We were talking about an open culture. I went into that for a second. You're very much on that top. Maybe it's a good thing I'm reading the part about that. Or are we just gonna listen to Mr. Azarkan?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u53	Well, if it is an answer to Mr Markuszower, you may do so. I will give Mr Azarkan the floor in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u54	The point of the NRC was, of course, specifically about the summit. I am also concerned about this, and in particular about high orbital speed. I've seen that in other organizations, too. To what extent is there an excessively high turnover rate of staff in which officials are on the same job for too short a period of time and, after making major mistakes, can simply promote to another function without consequence? Is the Minister prepared to benchmark his own ministry on this issue and on the speed of circulation of senior officials in consultation with the Minister for the Interior? Is he willing to let the Chamber know how his ministry scores on that and to provide it with an appraisal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u55	Mr Van Wijngaarden, do I say that correctly, Mr President? Oh, it'll be handy. He's avoiding his responsibility, and I don't like it. Over the past 50 years, the VVD has been in government for about 40 years. It has played an important role in the direction of ministries. The crimefighters, the self-appointed one, would make things right for a while. What we see is a mess. Mr Van Wijngaarden actually says: "Let's not look at that too much; I avoid that responsibility. We now have this minister who is from the CDA and we have to solve it." He comes with those anointing words. I can't listen to them anymore, because I just heard them in the IRS meeting. We need an open culture. We have a culture where people are allowed to make mistakes, where we learn from them. Great! Everyone agrees with Mr Van Wijngaarden. My question to him is next. You can't improve anything until you've analyzed a problem yourself. How can this kind of problem arise, not only with the Justice and Security Inspectorate, but also with the Tax Administration and also with the IND? How is this possible? How could we have created such a culture, for which your party has borne a great deal of responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u56	Mr Azarkan referred to the fact that the VVD had indeed regularly assumed government responsibility. When I hear him like that, he doesn't like us doing that. But we stand for responsibility. I don't think that's always an easy task. It is indeed easier to criticise from the sidelines. That's fine, that's fine. But what I like about this debate is that we are trying to put our finger on the sore spot, and to see if people do not get away too easily with mistakes made. Is this inspection, which should have a louse-in-the-pele function, sufficiently independent, able to do their job independently? We have also had this debate on the WODC before. And if you ask "how can it be?', If we want to get to the beginning of a solution, we simply need to focus on that kind of problem step by step, look at it, identify it and tackle it openly. And yes, that also goes with taking responsibility. I think we'll find each other there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u57	Sure, but it also starts with a good analysis. I think there are two key problems here. I will help Mr Van Wijngaarden. The first is that apparently there are people high up in the tree who want to influence investigations because they can protect the position of the minister - which is not always the case, but it can. That's one. Apparently there's that need, at the top. The second is that whistleblowers, who see abuses, are hunted down, eliminated, do not feel free and are not taken seriously. Those are the two key problems. My question to Mr Van Wijngaarden is very simple. To solve that problem, we also need to look at the cause. And I am not saying that Mr Van Wijngaarden, on behalf of the VVD, caused that problem. I am just saying that the VVD has played an important role in the direction of those ministries. And is there a interaction there, as he rightly said? This minister can do something about that by showing rules, by showing behavior. Did the others do that wrong? So if we take that analysis of those two observations together, what's it in?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u58	Look, Mr Azarkan is trying to turn it into a bit of a party political debate, but I think that the cause of some of the problems we are talking about is that there was too little room, too little openness to internal criticism, and actually also to openness at all. And we have to get rid of that culture. And that is why we are having this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u59	Go on, I'd say. Oh, Mr. Azarkan again. I thought you were done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u60	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I think that's a little too easy. I'm out of line, too. Look, that space doesn't come into being by itself. That's not some kind of autonomous development. It is given by the top; it determines that space. And if that doesn't go well the first time, the next person who comes forward will look out twice. That is what we see throughout the government summit: we see that a lot of whistleblowers do not get room, that the first is reported, eliminated, obstructed, sometimes prosecuted, sometimes also charged with all kinds of things. The question is: what gave rise to this? That's what people do. That is not what organizations do, that is what people do; they give too little space to the others to express themselves. And that's because there's some kind of belief that they can manipulate, to achieve something with that. That is where I think the key problem lies. So Mr. Van Wijngaarden, I say through you, Mr. Chairman, you don't get away with it that easily. What's the root cause? Otherwise, we can give the Minister all kinds of things, but that doesn't help at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u61	I have the impression that Mr Azarkan is actually already doing his input through the interrupting microphone. And I find it all very interesting. He says "Mr. Van Wijngaarden doesn't get away with it that easily," but I'm not trying to get away with anything. I don't know what he's talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u62	Well, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u63	Mr President, I would like an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u64	Yes, but I can hardly find Mr. Van Wijngaarden other things...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u65	Yeah. You ask four times about the root causes. I tried to answer it as best I could.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u66	All right, I'm afraid you won't make it through here. You may try again, but I think Mr Van Wijngaarden has said everything he had to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u67	Then I conclude that that responsibility has been avoided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u68	Mr Van Wijngaarden, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u69	Mr President, with regard to the inspection reports specifically, I would like to know from the Minister why the royal route has not always been followed. To what extent does that happen now? That is that when inspection reports are published, a ruler puts his own findings next to them, in a separate publication. This is the system provided for in the law, isn't it? Or maybe I misunderstood? You should never rule that out. And to what extent is that the norm at the moment or not? I would also like a response from the Minister on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u70	Thank you, Mr. Van Wijngaarden. Mr Van Dam has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u71	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. In my opinion, not only was the situation at the Justice and Security Inspectorate the cause of this debate, but also a bit of WoDC. I have three things. Let me start with the WODC thing. Let me begin with the position taken by the Minister in relation to the functioning of his officials, within his ministry. It seems that two of the Minister's responsibilities come together and sometimes also run through each other. On the one hand, the Minister is politically responsible for everything that takes place inside and under the JenV umbrella and is accountable for it day in and day out here in the Chamber. On the other hand, he has a responsibility as the highest boss, as an employer, towards his officials. This responsibility also includes the creation of a safe working environment. I make a somewhat artificial distinction here, because he is ultimately politically responsible for his employer role too, but I hope that the Minister can follow me in the essence of the distinction I make. Especially around the so-called whistleblower of the WODC we saw those two responsibilities come together in an uncomfortable way. The Minister has previously publicly stated that whistleblowers within his ministry must feel the freedom and protection to come forward with their story. But when the D.A. then started a criminal investigation, he distanced himself, with which, on balance, an insecure image emerged, however much I can understand that the Minister must keep his distance when it comes to decisions of the D.A.'s office. Can the Minister explain again how he sees these two hats himself and how he deals with them in practice? And can he explain how well it is known to the officials in his ministry that he wears these two hats and how to deal with them? Because I think that contributes to clarity. Mr President, next item is the report (Doc. That focuses more on the Justice and Security Inspectorate. There's a protocol for the operation of the JenV inspection. This was published on 1 October 2018. It states that the draft report, excluding the recommendations, is submitted to the organisation or officials who have been inspected. I went to take a look at that and then I noticed something. For example, I have read the report with the periodic report on the search. I note that comments are also made on the recommendations in the hearing and hearing table, so they must also be put forward. In particular, with regard to comments 21, 22, 23, 24 and 25, the police make comments on the recommendations made by the inspection, while the work instruction states that only the conclusions should be presented and not the recommendations. A report from the ADR has been made confidentially available on the organisation of repressive fire services. I've only descended to the department where it is. I will not report on the substance of what I found there, but I also noticed that comments have been made on the recommendations. Then I think to myself, "That's not the point, is it? That cannot be the intention, apart from the fact that if you read those reports correctly, there is actually a great deal of appreciation in certain conclusions. In particular, in the Selection and Allocation report in the search, you see that conclusions are eventually adjusted as well. If I may put it plastically, first the glass is half empty and after adjusting the conclusion, the glass is half full. On balance, there is just as much liquid in the glass, but the way we talk about it here is, of course, a completely different one. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister how that works, how he looks at it and whether that is going well. The fact that I ask for it so explicitly suggests that I have some concerns. Finally, Mr President, my third comment, also a little in response to the suggestion of, if I understand correctly, the SP and D66 to make the inspection legally independent. I'm looking at it like this. Then I use four English terms, but I dare. The Minister stands for the execution. That's plan, do, act, check. Plan, perform, view and check the effect. I see Mr. Azarkan all up, 'cause I think he's one of those, too. Exactly in that check section, which is also part of the executive's responsibility, I see the inspection playing a role. So if you take that out, you're gonna take one step out of the Deming Circle. Deming Circle: that is a fantastic term for the Ministry of Justice and Security. That's my objection to taking the inspection out of the ministry and putting it somewhere else. At the same time, we see, not only in the Justice and Security Inspectorate but also in many other places, that things are sometimes very difficult. I need only speak here about the NVWA, but also about other inspections. Now we have received a letter from the Minister of the Interior this morning, at the request of Mr Krol. He's not here, otherwise I would have discussed with him if I could bring this up here. It states that, in the context of the broad evaluation of so-called state organisations, it is also intended to evaluate the indications for inspections, which is an indication under which all inspections will function. That should be done by the end of 2021. I'm having a little trouble with that. In fact, I believe that there is an urgent need to pay attention to these inspections earlier and to evaluate those indications that have already been made a number of years ago, also in view of the problems involved in various inspections. I understand that this is a difficult question for this minister, because this is a matter for BZK. And yet I would like to ask the Minister a response on this point. Is it not wise to evaluate these indications much earlier, to do so much faster, and to separate them from the broad evaluation of the so-called state organisations? That's also about ZBOs and everything and everything. I believe that this requires more urgency and specificity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u73	I try to understand Mr Van Dam correctly when it comes to his objections to the possible legal or organisational separation of the inspection. Maybe he's got a point, but I don't quite get it. It concerns me about that check element in that list of four things. Surely it is not by definition that the Minister is dependent on an inspection to check those things he does in his department? If the Minister wants the police to do this or this, it is logical that the Minister should then ask the police to report back whether she has done so properly, and in what cases and in what cases not? Unless you say that by definition you have no confidence that anything comes out and that you always have to go to the inspection. It seems a bit like you are making it appear that the inspection is the only check mechanism available to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u74	When we talk about trust, I think I am still one of those who are most on the side of the line of confidence in this debate. But apart from that, I think that in such large organisations as ministries... Mr Azarkan was just looking for the cause of this, but then Mr Azarkan, like all of us, has to look in his mirror. One of the problems is that we here, reacting to all those pieces in the newspaper, score incidents every time, and in that way we want everything and everything. So it's a very specific setting. If we pass a law here and ask the Minister, "Would you like to evaluate how things are going and see if it's true?', We expect a certain degree of independence and sincerity in this. Nothing to the detriment of any implementing authority, but let's face it: you're coming out; I'm coming out. You sometimes want to bend the facts a little bit to where you want to be yourself. That is exactly why you should grant it to a minister, and with it also should grant us, that there is an inspection and monitoring apparatus within the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u75	I'm gonna keep going on this. I keep thinking that there are several ways to check that things are going well than just through the inspection. When I hear it said that it would be problematic if the inspection were to be remotely moved, I do not know if I fully follow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u76	Can I take one more shot? In the normal course of things, we have ministries in this country which have a system to adjust themselves. They have a system in them to make sure that if things don't go the way they should, they do it themselves. That will also be recognized by a democrat from your political point of view in personal independence: you do not need another to tell you how to adjust, but you do so yourself. That's what we need at ministries, at Zbo's, and you name it all. 'Cause if we don't, we're gonna have to do it here all the time. We have a certain distance. We are also looking at ADR reports, at the Court of Auditors and all of them. That's how you should give it to a minister, too, I think he has his own organization, who's watching whether things are going well or not. And if you take all that out, at least you're taking one step out of that circle. That's very bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u77	Clear, at least I get a clearer picture of what Mr Van Dam is trying to do or what his problem is. I don't know if I agree, but we can talk about that later. But my question to Mr Van Dam is: is it not possible to create some kind of hybrid model in that? I just took the decision of how that was done with the WODC. In addition, you can see that on certain points the Minister cannot give the WODC any clues. I can imagine the same kind of model at the inspection. Then you say: the Minister may well ask the inspection to investigate something, but he cannot prevent the inspection from carrying out independent investigations if the inspection considers it necessary and he should not interfere in the inspection's conduct. Aren't we in a situation where we find each other? Then there is more distance, but then that is what Mr Van Dam wants to see secured, perhaps still secured.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u78	In interrupting Mr Van Nispen, I also said that I can imagine something in a number of plans and proposals. We can indeed organize a little more distance so that they can play that role. But let me give you an example. We received the annual plan from the Justice and Security Inspectorate just before the budget. I was very pleased with that, because the year before I said: gosh, there should be some more monitoring of digitalisation in the implementation, on a number of things. At that time, I was able to make that part of the debate and discuss it with the Minister. That way we could come to something. That is different from the fact that I point my finger or that the Minister says: I do not agree with the conclusion on page that much. So I do not want to make recommendations, and that is what I have to say, that someone other than the inspection itself makes recommendations. I don't want any influence either. But for me, that is fundamentally different from the fact that the inspection is part of that ministry. However, one inspection is not the other. As the implementation of policies is closer to the minister, the inspection may need to be a little further. And if, for example, the schools are very much in the field, then perhaps the inspection could be closer to the minister. But that is precisely why I believe that the evaluation of the indications should be brought forward. That must be the story on which we base ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u79	Thank you, Mr. Van Dam. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Security is one of the most important things we have in our country. Safety is not just about how safe it really is, but also about how safe people feel. This also has to do with how much trust you have that the government communicates fairly and transparently about what is going well, with the police, with the TBs, with the prison system or with the fire department, and about what is not going well. And can we rely on that, too? At the moment when there are investigations that should be independent, whether that be the WODC or the inspection or court cases that are under way, everyone should be able to trust that those investigations are truly independent and fair. When that is not the case, it affects confidence in the government, but also the basic sense of security. I therefore attach great importance to the way in which the Minister is going to shape the further process. For the sake of clarity, I can agree with the questions raised by my colleagues. I agree that the inspection should be carried out more remotely. How you do that legally and exactly what structure you use for that purpose, I find a relevant question; at least I would like a response from the Minister on this point. In most of the questions, I can agree. An external investigation is important and I also consider the question of whether the internal coordinator is independent enough to be relevant. But I would also like to ask a number of additional questions. In particular, I would like to know what happens now to the whistleblowers who have come forward. They initially felt that they did not get recognition for passing the signals. Many of their signals have not been picked up; they have not been picked up until later. I know that whistleblowers often no longer feel safe in their own organization and that their careers are damaged, because they are obstructors, because they are complicated people. What aftercare is delivered to these whistleblowers? I think that is extremely important. I would like the Minister to give me the undertaking that not only at this time, but also in a year's time, we will see how these people are doing and how they feel in the organisation: do they feel sufficiently recognized and safe? Because that is incredibly important, and my experience is that it often doesn't go well. Another question I would like to ask the Minister is whether he really feels how deeply rooted the problem is. I've already told you in an earlier setting that I'm from the Ministry of the Interior, now the Ministry of JenV. Even then, culture was that you do everything to serve the minister; everything else has to give way. The higher one gets in the hierarchy, the better one is in that game. It's not the regular employees who do this. They are often conscious choices of executives. It's a deeply rooted culture and you didn't just dismantle it. I hope the Minister is well aware of this. It is not so much a conscious strategy as it is perhaps a conscious strategy, but it is growing in it by stealth. Sneakingly, you get used to telling the truth a little bit of sister and a little bit of that, with a little influence here and a little bit of influence there and before you know it, you've rewritten whole reports that aren't pleasing to you. That is why I think it is important that several colleagues have called for it to be completely transparent, that the report should simply go to the Court and that comments should be left out, for example in an annex, instead of being incorporated into the reports. I would therefore like to reverse that principle. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would also like to know how the Minister himself considers that he was initially not informed, because that is how I understood it in an earlier Question Time about the other whistleblowers and the other reports. How is that possible? How is it that culture is so that the Minister has not been informed about this? A senior official must feel that this is very sensitive information. A senior official must be able to sense that this will come out sooner or later. Then how does the Minister assess that there has been a decision not to actively inform him, the chief minister of the ministry? Or is he even informed? If so, why did the Minister choose not to take action there and inform the Chamber about it? I have asked the Minister this question before, but it still puzzles me, because if the culture is so that people think, "Oh, I'm not going to inform my own minister," we have a really big problem with each other. In my view, this is a structural problem, which we are seeing more, also in relation to ministers and administrators who have died in recent years, which was precisely the basis for this: I do not inform, because what does not know, what does not matter; the Minister does not have to do with it. But in the end, it only causes bigger problems. Mr President, I will conclude. I do not doubt the integrity of this minister, but I do hope he is sufficiently aware that it is a persistent, long-term problem and that it is only with a long-term, profound approach that you can really change something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u82	Mr President, thank you. Whistleblowers in the Ministry of Justice and Security reported improper influence in about eight cases. Hard conclusions would have been watered down and muffled away, or information would have been deliberately withheld. Get rid of it because the Chamber wasn't supposed to know. Moved away because the people in the country weren't supposed to know. My question to the Minister is to begin with: does he share the view that the image of his ministry has been seriously damaged? Does he share the view that people in the country see a manipulative culture that undermines trust in government? Does he share the view that the Chamber can no longer rely 100% on his ministry's reports? The reports of whistleblowers within the Ministry of Security and Justice about improper influence in about eight investigations do not seem to have been taken seriously. Only one of the eight was researched by the Audit Service Rijk in 2018. In all other cases, no investigation was carried out, "because the underlying problem is monitoring the same issue, namely more openness about decisions, frequent back-up and open, transparent communication." How is it possible, in one case, to decide whether to investigate and in other cases not, when there is the same problem? Then you would conclude that in all cases research should be carried out. Then there are the improvement measures for the Justice and Security Inspectorate of the ADR. They have made suggestions for this. Although the ADR concludes that the management and staff of the inspection are well on their way to implementing the recommendations, the DENK Group has a number of concrete concerns. The file formation is not yet in order. Not all versions of documents can be found, and the check for completeness of the documentation is absent. How will the Minister ensure that this improves in the short term? Under pressure from top officials, the inspection has adapted research results for years, so sensitive information has not been passed on to the Chamber. This is also to the disadvantage of society, because society, for example, was benefiting from a thorough and objective investigation into the application of the neck clamp in view of the social unrest after the death of Mitch Henriquez. Mr. Chairman. It is not the first time research results have been manipulated and influenced. Why was an investigation of other complaints stopped by the Justice Summit? Does the Minister agree with me that every complaint from a whistleblower is too many and that all complaints should be examined independently and seriously? Why is a large part of these complaints still being muffled away and why is the Minister not informed? Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of other questions. Where does the ministry tend to keep displeasure news away from the media and the House of Representatives? What role did the coordinator's integrity play in this? Is it true that the Justice and Security Summit did not consider it necessary for certain complaints to be followed up, because improvements have already been made? How is it that the image of the ministry after so many previous affairs is still more important than truth finding and giving concrete information to the Chamber? Mr. Chairman. We were able to have a brief debate on this with the Minister in January during Question Time. After previous affairs within the Ministry, we were not always reassured by the soothing words of the Minister. Most of all I have kept in mind that Minister Grapperhaus certainly denied that information from investigations of the Justice and Security Inspectorate has been withheld from the House of Representatives. He said: I have not ordered in any way not to send reports to the Chamber or to withhold them or anything. Mr. Chairman. Last January, the Minister also said that he is considering moving the Justice and Security Inspectorate from the Ministry to avoid influence. Well, I think the inspection is still in the same turret. He said at the time: that's what I'm talking about. How's that going? What's the status? How are the calls going? Can the Minister tell us more about that? Finally, Mr President. My group considers it serious and regrettable that the official top detective was going to play. Last summer, the substitute sg stepped up after reporting on his role in the criminal investigation into leaks at his ministry, but two other top officials who also participated in interrogation of their own colleagues just stayed behind. One of them is now the current coordinator of integrity. This current coordinator is exactly the same person as the one who did not deal with multiple complaints about the Justice and Security Inspectorate as a formal notification of abuses. In short, is this the butcher who approves his own meat? Is this person the right person to do this? I'd like to receive answers from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u83	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Can citizens be confident that decisions taken by the government that directly affect them will be made on the basis of independent, reliable and honest research? Can the House of Representatives trust that the results of research will not be censored or souffled by the official or administrative summit of a department if the results do not come out as well? Those are the two big questions that I asked two years ago in the debate on the independence of the WODC, which I asked last year in the next debate on the WODC, and which I unfortunately have to ask again today in the debate on adapting inspection reports and culture at the Ministry of Justice and Security. Why is trust so important? Because in our democracy citizens surrender something of their autonomy so that the government has room to protect the right, to fight injustice and to guard the common interest. As a citizen, you must be able to trust that the power you give together to the government is always of service to society and to that common interest. But when that power is not of service to society, but above all seems to be of service to itself, confidence in that government is also damaged. This undermines institutions such as our security services, but also ministries, government, politics and ultimately citizens, who are affected by decisions taken here on the basis of that data. That is why the Christian Union is so angry that once again the information provided by the Ministry of Justice and Security is under discussion and the truth of it. Before I go into the inspection, I ask the Minister if, if he puts the thermometer in the ministry, he has the impression that change is taking place, that that wrong culture of influencing and covering up is more and more a thing of the past. Does he have the impression that his ministry is actually changing not only on paper, but also in the workplace? I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u85	I think this is a fair question: how does the Minister himself feel about this? That's always a nice question. The minister is going to put the thermometer in the ministry and he will probably say: we are busy, the culture is changing et cetera. Anyway, that's what we're gonna hear. We see what keeps happening with the WODC affair, with an official summit that denies the problems, again on the Internet after adjusting an inspection report, with an official summit that is going to play detective and chasing the whistleblowers instead of addressing those responsible who have manipulated politics and adapted reports. How much confidence can we have that culture change going well? Is it then enough to ask the Minister this question or does Mrs Van der Graaf, on behalf of the Christian Union, say that she sees what the SP's proposal is for an external investigation into culture within the Ministry of Justice and Security summit?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u86	That is a very justified interruption. I put the questions to the Minister, but I believe that as a Chamber we also have a task to perform. You can't change a culture overnight. Culture is also linked to structure. I will come to that later in my further contribution. Have we organized it in a good way now? I question that. I have heard your input and I think you have made very useful suggestions for this debate and for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u87	Yeah, that's nice. We have this debate and we are going to listen to the Minister. What does he think of the changes and culture in the Ministry of Justice and Security? But Mrs Van der Graaf has also been working on this for a long time. How big is the Ministry? Isn't it better to split it up? Those are other discussions. Several parties have been concerned for a very long time about the culture at the Ministry of Justice and Security. I asked myself the question: should we conduct a parliamentary survey or a parliamentary inquiry? I do not think it is appropriate for us as a parliament to do so in the direction of a ministry. But I do think it's good to invest something like that externally. It should not only be the Ministry itself to change the culture and measure whether it is going well. Again, do you see anything in the proposal for an externally independent research into culture at the Justice and Security Ministry summit?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u88	I think we should take a serious look at that, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u89	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u90	Mr. Chairman. We're shocked by the findings looking at the Justice and Security Inspectorate. The top of the ministry influences the inspection, the top prevents further investigation by the Audit Service Empire. Is it true that it was stated that the report should not be sent to the Lower House, because it would only pose difficult questions? This leads us to the question of how the Chamber is actually looked at from within the department. Is that just a tricky obstacle or is the Chamber seen as part of the trias politicians: three powers that are separated and that have to monitor and control each other's functioning? Mr. Chairman. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, this is about a broader question. How are the inspections organised and is there appropriate distance from the Ministry that is being inspected? Do employees get in the same elevator in the morning? Are the inspections under the responsibility of the same minister or do they have to turn to the department for an adequate budget? We think it would be good if there were more and more consistent distance between departments and inspections. As a member of the Groningen Parliament, I mention the example of State surveillance of the Mines. In 2015, the report of the Research Council for Security came to mind as well as the fact that the State surveillance of the Mines was far from being an independent critical watchdog and was directly under the responsibility of the Minister of EZK, who also had to issue the mining permits, to ensure economic importance and safety. That can't go together in one hand. Recently we heard about the Inspection Environment and Transport. Mr. Chairman. This leads us to a question. Last year Mr Van Vollenhoven proposed a completely independent national safety inspection, because inspections have become too much part of the departmental consultation culture. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs then wrote a letter to the Chamber saying that it is rather a nice analysis, but that this proposal is not being embraced, because a lot is already being done. I ask the Minister if the government is prepared to reconsider this. How's he gonna look at that? I am also proposing today that the state-wide study be carried out on how to invest inspections independently and better guarantee their independence, including the option of housing them outside the department. I think there is a real added value in that. I'll close with some questions about the WODC. It is good that the WODC has now been physically moved, a transition advisor has been appointed to monitor critically and the necessary regulations have been adapted. At the same time, as far as the Christian Union is concerned, this transition has not yet been completed. There seem to be another 10 measures to be taken and there are concerns as to whether this new regulation is sufficiently sharp and whether the enthusiasm of the employees around awareness and a culture is diminishing. I ask the Minister if he can back up why it would be logical to close the Revised Relations "Policy" programme "WODC." Shouldn't that have gone through a little bit longer? The transition advisor points out that the program of the WODC is still extremely sold. As a result, there is little room for ad hoc studies and department-wide research. Does the Minister recognise that this is primarily an issue for the entire justice and security knowledge system? Wouldn't it be a first step to keep a percentage of that WODC program free for such investigations? I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u91	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. This also brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u92	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u93	Madam President. I will, as you are used to, focus on the questions that have been asked and, as briefly as possible, address them. But I would like to say a few things, because this is a subject that touches on the core of my ministry. It is about safety, in this case safety at work. If there is one ministry where we have to organize that properly, that is, of course, the Ministry of Justice and Security itself. I would like to go straight to what Mrs. Kuik asked in her contribution. She said 'do you realize that there has been a deep-seated behavior issue', if I may put it that way. She speaks from her own experience, but also from observation experience as a Member of Parliament. I have taken up this point, because from the moment I became a minister and jumped into the JenV Change programme that was already under way, I said that we should turn to society together, but also to each other when it comes to criticism and contradiction. The Secretary-General of Siebe Riedstra, who left very recently, was really working on this. So that was already going on, but I said that we really need to bet on it. I thought, when I was a minister for five weeks, that I would do so immediately by setting up no less than three committees of inquiry in the context of the WODC issue. I have to say that it might seem a little much of the good, but that was just to be able to highlight all the different aspects. There too, I have had to observe that, if you let me put that in front of you, because it was worn, also by the department of the French overseas departments, in such a way that it can still lead to disturbances. I shall come back to this later on in connection with the questions put by Mr Van Nispen and others. But let's look at this problem. I have already answered a few questions by saying: yes, it is only at the end of January 2020 that I am clear from the fact that newspaper publications have been submitted that there have been a number of reports. It involved two reports, which can be traced back to about six people who had requested talks with the confidant. And here I come to a point that Mrs Kuiken and I believe others have asked for. How is that possible? Well, contrary to what Mr Van Dam said with no doubt genuine intent, I am not the employer's manager. Yes, I am at the moment when political consequences arise. That must remain the case, because the official must have the protection of the highest official, also with regard to politics and with regard to me. Those reports and all other things shouldn't end up primarily with me. It is not because I am a monster in the functioning of the European Union that it is not up to me to judge, but because it is precisely because things can arise from perhaps my desire that something be done in a certain way or because officials, as some Members have pointed out, think I would. An official who has a trust problem should be able to raise this issue without going directly to the political summit or even to the administration. Turning to Mr Grothuizen's question, I think you should not look back at such a jigsaw puzzle technique and say afterwards how I would have done well. But looking back I do think that in May 2018 there should have been a bit more reported to me. But I'll get to that in a minute. I'd like to explain something. Indeed, all these reports did not become me until the end of January. I think this is justified in itself, because it is reports that have been dropped at some point in the procedure. A few times it hasn't even come to a report. People have expressed their displeasure, as you have seen in the written reply. The then Secretary-General also took action on this issue. The fact that I don't hear it until this late, I think I can account for it. However, after the integrity coordinator reported two cases to be investigated in January, in May 2018 I was only informed that this case was being investigated. With the recommendations of the ADR, we are now working on them. For the future, I think that at such a time, and with that to your Chamber, it should be made clear that there may be other matters to look into. I think that we should at least get the ADR to look at these other issues as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u94	That last notion is very important to me, because it is not so much a matter of staffing, but of people who have reported and heard that things are not going on here. This concerns a number of investigations. It is therefore primarily the responsibility of the Minister. I think it is important that it should be very clear that the Minister agrees. I think it's too weak for him to just say, "I understand it all."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u95	Yeah, I recognize that. It is somewhat complicated that this is at least what was decided at the time, namely reports on the way in which the control of the inspection was handled at the time. This makes it somewhat more complicated, even for the officials who deal with the matter in the Ministry, because it is ultimately also a matter of the then Inspector-General and the deputy Inspector-General having indicated in the reports that they had to do differently in relation to certain cases. I think so, but I am going to anticipate that, in future, we will have to ensure much more transparency in order to ensure that all the points of view in the reports are contained in the Research Council on Security and the General Court do so in the annexes................................................................................................................................................................................................... The complicated situation here is that I am in favour of this, as the Deputy Secretary-General said at the time: we have that investigation, we are going to take action, and we are going to move on now. I can imagine that it was a dilemma, because it was not so much a report or a report from someone in the department, but from people from the inspection. That's what made it hard. But I want to make it clear to Mrs Kuik that from now on we really need to take on that kind of thing in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u96	I am puzzled for a moment whether the Minister is putting forward very carefully because he wants to protect officials or if he does not fully realize that this is also a cultural problem. The highest leadership in such a department does not understand that there is also a political problem if there are a number of whistleblowers and there are a number of reports that may not have been transparent and fairly reconnected. Does the Minister understand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u97	I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u98	That is why I want the Minister to understand that culture must be so that it is an automatism that the Minister is informed when it is reported that there are reports that might be something to it. It is not so much about who has reported what, or that there may be problems with executives, but that some reports may not be right. I'm gonna say it louder now. That's what's actually going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u99	My way of thinking is: you can learn a lesson from something and yet ask for understanding for how the person did it at the time. That's what I'm doing here. I'm learning the lesson. I say very clearly: if there is a report, it must also be clearly recorded. That report must indeed come to the political leadership, and that is what I am saying, because it must be accountable. Secondly, I think that in an inspection report I would be a little ahead of those measures, and I would simply like to see what might have gone back and forth for opinions or comments from third parties. That makes what might have happened differently in May 2018 as far as I am concerned, really different from now on. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u100	I'm trying to follow the minister. Honestly, that's not easy. I think there were a number of people, inspectors, who said: pressure has been exerted on the reports we have made of investigations. That didn't go well internally. That's what they reported. That's the point. Eventually, at the end of the journey, the Minister also said that he does see that there is a reason to investigate it. That's why he set up the ADR. Then the answer to the question of whether it should not have just been reported afterwards by the Minister could not have been different from: yes, it should have been, because the fact that those reports are correct is simply my political responsibility. I don't understand the incredibly long sentences. The answer can only be: yes, I should have known this before the end of January when that newspaper article was presented.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u101	First of all, I said that I think those ADR reports should also be included in the other investigations, because I want to see that the integrity of those reports is not at stake. We cannot do that at the moment. That's one. Two: yes, I think you should report that in such a situation. You have to say: this has been investigated now, but there is another report or there are other reports. This must be politically accountable to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u102	That's profit. It took a while, but I think this is a clear answer. Then I have another question. It seems as if the Minister is constantly making some sort of distinction between the report and the issue I think it is about: has there been any influence on those reports? Then I'll just pick up an answer 24 from the written round we've had. I'm just gonna read it to you. "What they're describing is what they say they want to expose, namely an unsafe working environment with an unsafe style of guidance and insufficient transparency in the process of producing reports, as a principle of good supervision." If this is the answer, was it not clear from the outset that it was about transparency in the reports? Then it was clear from the start that there was something wrong with those reports, wasn't it? Then it wasn't an internal matter about a safe working environment, was it? I understand the distinction that the minister seems to keep making just not so good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u103	What has been established by the ADR in May 2018 is that at least the way in which the management sent those reports, which were involved, had to be different. Let me put it this way. There was another way of involvement desired. The ADR has clearly indicated this. An improvement plan has also been drawn up for this, of which the same ADR said last December: many things have been improved, but things still need to be improved. That is also clearly what the Inspector-General has been doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u104	I do not think this is an answer to the question. Let me read on for a moment: "Their explanation of the reporters describes far-reaching interference of the leadership, but no concrete incidents or examples from which a reasonable suspicion could be inferred that there was undue influence." I think I read that about six times, and I don't get that phrase. How can you in some sort of abstract sense have a far-reaching interference with the work of an inspector? I mean, what do you do? Do you come around the room all the time saying: it's not a specific danger, but do you know you have to pay attention? I just don't get it. What does it say here is my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u105	In the end, you should ask the ADR. The ADR has examined this and notes that they still see an atmosphere in which there is too much interference from the leadership with what is reported and how those reports are produced. I am quite honest with you that that is enough reason enough for us to have a different balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u106	Mrs Buitenweg or Mr Markuszower? Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u107	I usually let ladies go first, but when I get my turn neatly, I take it. I think I have a point about the same sentence that Mr Groothuizen just spoke about. I think it comes from another source, namely the letter from the Minister himself dated 12 February last. It contains the same kind of sentence, which I also found very curious, but perhaps for another reason. It says, "In that conversation," it doesn't matter which conversation "didn't come up with an incident from which a reasonable suspicion could be inferred that there was undue external influence." This is what the Minister himself writes. I would now like to ask the Minister what is allowed influence. Apparently, in the world of the ministry there is such a thing as unauthorized influence, but from that you could deduce that there may also be lawful influence. Can the Minister state clearly when there is any legal influence? Apparently, the minister didn't take a good look at influence inside. In my opinion, Mrs Buitenweg also mentioned this in her speech. So can the Minister also make a distinction with influence on the inside?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u108	There is often enough legal influence. That is what the WODC, I thought Committee I wrote about, by the way. There can be a legitimate influence if, within the rules as agreed, a person, official or body can say in a certain way: listen, do you want to take this into account here and there or include that particular point in your report? There is an undue influence when a staff member or body tries to interfere with something in terms of influence with which he should not do so, either with improper arguments or against the rules. That's the difference between lawful and unlawful. Then I come to the distinction between internal and external, which was Mrs Buitenweg's point. In any case, I hope that we agree that the fire department report made the following very clear. There were in the style of management points that needed urgent improvement, because they had a wrong influence on the reports. That's the internal influence. That point has been addressed in any case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u109	Perhaps Mrs Buitenweg goes even further on the point outside-inside. I will continue on the issue of lawful and unauthorized influence. I listened very carefully to the Minister. Of course, that's very subjective. Apparently, it's up to the minister when something is unauthorized or lawful. I think that's a little scary. I have also read the article in the NRC, which I mentioned earlier in an interruption to Mr van Wijngaarden. It also states, for example, that the conclusions are sometimes not adjusted. So sometimes they are adapted, that's how we learned today. It does not happen sometimes, but the tone of such a report is in any case very different. I think the officials will say: then we have to push ahead with it. That's what the NRC article says. That's a form of influence, isn't it? In fact, my question to the Minister is: if there is any undue influence, what, according to the Minister, should be the penalty for those who work under him and who have committed undue influence?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u110	That's like a personal matter. As far as the political consequences are concerned, I am responsible for this. Then it is up to your Chamber to decide what it will do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u111	That is a difficult answer, because the Chamber very often does not know when influence has occurred. We only know that if a sharp journalist finds out or if a whistleblower, despite all the opposition, is so brave to bring it out. How can we control the Minister if we ourselves do not always have knowledge of undue influence? Again, it seems to be up to the Minister himself to decide when there is undue or lawful influence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u112	I'll say two things about that. First of all, I think that the idea put forward by Mrs Kuik and Mr Grothuizen is a real improvement. They say: "From now on, go and show yourself in attachments." You may then look to me that up to now we have not simply had that as standard practice in the inspection. You can then see in a transparent way what has been brought in by everyone. In theory, then, there is the possibility that someone would move an involved inspector into a dark alley and seriously intimidate him. I must say, however, that at least the confidential and reporting part of this case has worked. I will come back to that later, but I myself spoke with the two detectors to one of you just spoke about putting a heart in their arms. That part went well, because those reports have also been continued by the integrity coordinator. Then it remains possible that someone, without us knowing, is physically threatened or something like that. But I really assume that will not happen in our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u113	In conclusion. Of course, I do not think it is true that all whistleblowers have been properly received by the authorities that should have done so in recent years without intimidation. I'm getting a lot of messages from whistleblowers. I'm also reading them in the press that they've been fired, that they've been intimidated and that they've been bugged, even at times when the minister himself said he'd protect them. The House for Whistleblowers has been bugged. It is of course not that whistleblowers are so pleasant in the Netherlands and that there is plenty of room for them to ring the bell. If the Minister here says that it is all well arranged, then I am worried about it, because we read too many messages and we hear too many of the whistleblowers themselves that it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u114	I was zooming in, and I was just focusing on that case with those reporting procedures. That is quite apart from the fact that I have established that in a conversation, because I can imagine you saying: I still have to see that. We just see that these reporting procedures have worked all the way here. I fully understand what Mr Markuszower is saying, namely that there are situations in society where whistleblowers do not come to justice. Anyway, it was about this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u115	Apart from the alleyways in which people would be drawn, I see another opportunity to exercise influence, namely the supervisor. The Minister says: there has been a lot of criticism of the style of management. But then there's something I keep thinking, how am I supposed to see it? It follows: that style of management has led to the wrong influence on reporting. What do we mean by wrong influence? Does it mean that the style of management may have led to issues in the reports that are not actually so or that things should have been written in it or should have been described in a different way than they are now in the reports?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u116	I find that very difficult to judge. Why? Because I am the last one to have to keep these reports under review and ask: is it really true what it says? We recently discussed with your Chamber an extremely critical and painful report, the case of the Rotterdam girl, expressing my alternate shame at what happened. I have to read such a report as it is, with all the pain in it. I can't hold it against the light to tell you if it happened right. That's why we have those trusted people. They have pointed out that things have to change in the management style, because otherwise you can get things that are wrong. In the case of internal influence, this still remains a responsibility of the inspection itself at some point, complicated enough. Mrs Buitenweg is right to say: yes, but I want to avoid that, of course. And that is why we started working on the ADR recommendation and that I really agreed with the new Inspector-General: please give priority to the things that, as I saw in December, are not yet 100% in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u117	I hear the Minister say it's hard to judge. In principle, therefore, he considers it possible that the studies we are talking about have been directed towards the results. Then I would like to understand from the Minister why the investigations that have now been ordered are only about the hearing phase. Because that, in my opinion, is exactly the stage at which internal writing is completed. I would therefore also like the investigation to be about the internal influence. Why isn't that happening?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u118	First of all, let me make it very easy and immediately promise that we will include these internal aspects as well. It was not my intention to say that we are ignoring it, so that is what has been promised. I do need to hear from the ADR, it will mean that the report is taking a little longer, but there must be no misunderstanding about it. Now to the issue of internal influence. That has been said so far: we have just seen it; it must be improved. That's what the ADR said. The ADR did not say that this changed the results of those reports, i.e. the conclusions and recommendations. But I admit that we will just do the same with those other reports. So we don't have any misunderstandings about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u119	That's very good news. I find it complicated to understand why suddenly there's a twist, but I appreciate it. When you look at all the pieces and all the answers to the questions, you see that a distinction is made all the time between the style of leadership and the external influence. So very clearly the internal influence was not taken into account all the time. We've been here for less than an hour, so I think it's a huge profit that it's happening all of a sudden. But I'd like it in a supplementary letter, if the Minister can show me. Because here it is described what research it is and I really want to make sure that the ADR is also capable of doing so. 'Cause I think it's kind of a big change. But I appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u120	Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u121	That letter's coming. I guess I had to promise that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u122	The worrying thing is that there seems to be a pattern. Because both in the WODC affair and in the recent publication on the adaptation of inspection reports, we actually see the same picture. First there are modifications or manipulations of investigations. Reports about this are not taken seriously. Only when it is published in the media is the Minister and we are all aware of it; before then the Minister knows nothing. Then the Minister announces investigations, which in itself is of course good. But the official top still struggles in the background, for example on intranet, a bit against: it is more the fault of the media than there would actually be something going on. Does the Minister recognize this pattern? And how is the Minister going to break this pattern? That is the key question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u123	No, I can't recognize that pattern. Much respect for Mr Van Nispen and also good that we are having this debate, but as black and white as he says it now, I do not recognize that. I have just said and I repeat that the notification procedures went well at the time. The Secretary-General you are now quoting, the recently retired Secretary-General, has also played a good role in this. Because after the confidants had talked to those six people and went through that with the integrity coordinator, that came to the sg. At that time, the sg already addressed the lead of the inspection on a number of issues. The Secretary-General did the same in connection with the first ADR report and finally had a final discussion with the two detectors. Your Chamber rightly asked why that was not until August 2019. That had to do with the detectors themselves. There was no delay or malicious intent. Mr Van Nispen is right when he says that it should not be an image of yet moving things away. One of you, I thought Mr. Azarkan, asked about the reputation of the ministry. Of course it does the ministry damage when this kind of thing happens, because that's just wrong publicity. Let's get that straight. But it's not that black and white. As I have just said, I think that, to put it this way, you cannot be transparent enough about this kind of thing. Show what others think of your findings and your report, and let those others come forward for that, too. Then you also see how good the hearing has been or hasn't been, because that's what we have to say. When it comes to adapting conclusions and the like, we must also realise that this kind of report, in order to be really careful, requires a proper hearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u124	The minister just called it wrong publicity for the ministry, but I think this is just reality. The reality is that reports have been modified and that we didn't know what was going on until it was published by the media. At that time the Minister was informed and at that time the Minister announced further investigations. On the one hand, it is a good thing for the Minister that he is going to stand for his officials, because that is the way to do, of course, as a minister. The Minister is responsible; that is correct. But at the same time, I find it complicated, because we know that the people responsible for adapting reports are the same people who are responsible for the witch hunt for the whistleblowers, the same people who are responsible for not apologizing when it turned out that they were completely wrong and that those whistleblowers should never have been dealt with that way. Then the question remains how the Minister will put his ministry in order, while this culture still seems to prevail within the official summit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u125	Then let me look at Mrs Van der Graaf's question: if you stick the thermometer in, what do you see now? I am convinced that, in the culture of two wallets, which have already come together, Justice and Security, there has really been a huge battle in the field of contradiction and openness. Of course, I can tell you about my own experiences, but you will be less interested in that. Of course, I'm getting enough contradiction here as well. But I see that in the two and a half years that I have been working on, that change was already put in place before it by officials much more let me say that problems are being laid down and bad news is being discussed, not in the sense of 'we have had it', but also 'how are we going to go outside and how are we really going to justify what is going on here'. One of the accusations, whether justified or not, that were made in the past to the Ministry was that there was no openness and that information had to come out in all kinds of other ways. The fact that these reports were fully published only at the end of January of this year does not mean that the proper reporting procedures were not followed at the time. Nor does it mean that the ADR was not investigated at the time. But I've just said that I think you should report not only the report examined, but also the other things right away. From now on, we have to do something really different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u126	The minister was just sitting there. At that time, he had to answer to Nieuwsuur for the WODC affair. He announced research. Then you can indeed say: we have to change, change, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, It's very important. But the Minister cannot say that we are on the right track, because he cannot support that. It is only six weeks since Mr Groothuizen asked critical questions here in Question Time about the publication in the Algemeen Dagblad. At that time, the Minister was not aware of what was going on with the revision of the inspection reports and the failure to examine reports. Well, then you can't say that things are getting better in the Ministry by now, can you? Indeed, further investigations were announced shortly after Question Time, in that letter of 12 February, but of course this should have been done two years earlier. I am not saying that the Minister is personally responsible for this, because I, too, still assume the Minister's good intentions. I also think that there is a lot of work going on and that a lot of good things are happening. But it is impossible to say, at least not to support it, that the culture in the ministry has now changed so that reports of possible abuses or reports of possible modifications are immediately picked up. Because we see recently, because of that publication in the daily newspaper, because of the oral Question Time that we had on this matter, that it is still just not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u127	I said and I see that this culture has indeed improved. That's what I see in inspection reports that appear. I also see this in the findings that I received from the new Inspector-General of the same inspection after a number of months. I also see that we are going to come up with a number of questions about the WODC that the procedures in which people can lose their reports are really much better rigged than they were. If Mr Van Nispen says 'but you are not yet here', I say, as I said on Mrs Kuik's point, no, I still have to take the lead there as Minister. 'Cause if someone has to be open, it's got to be me. You can still appeal to me if those things don't go well. I think we should all note in the department, if there is such a publication as at the end of January of the AD, that this is a sin, because even if there are a number of things to explain, that is not good for the ministry, point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u128	Mr. Groothuizen, you've just been here. Do you have another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u129	Yes, Mr President, because I think this is at the heart of the debate. I fully agree with Mr Van Nispen, because if I just put some things together... That trajectory JenV Verhangert has been running for a number of years now. We had the WODC affair two years ago. I'm not going to sum it up. Everyone knows him. We are now seeing this issue. Basically, there were six, seven complaints. One of them, the least bad, has been picked out. The others are a bit served off in an unsafe working environment. Then the Minister quite rightly says here that he should have and wanted to know sooner. I appreciate that. But then he also says: if I insert the thermometer into the ministry, I can see that JenV is changing better. I can't follow that anymore. The only conclusion from this list is that JenV isn't changing at all? Otherwise we wouldn't have to have this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u130	We are talking about this issue. There are many more topics that play. I believe that with Mr Grothuizen and the Permanent Chambers I have discussed many more reports recently, not only inspection reports, but also other issues. I still see there's been a huge change in this ministry. It is a ministry of which the administrative professor 't Hart observed last November that it is in many socially at the heart of the files. This not only requires a lot of effort and work. It also requires the right sensitivity in terms of transparency and other matters. We work on that all the time. That things aren't right yet, you may charge me, but I can really see that things are much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u131	Please continue. I think you've already answered a lot of questions through interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u132	I've now answered one of the 40 questions, I think. Mr. Chairman. I'm still going to go through a few things that I may not have answered. I have dealt with most of the inspection reports, particularly from Mr Van Nispen. I'm getting to the point of somatic care. The ADR investigation concerns complaints about improper influence of inspection reports. There are no signs that this is also the case in the report on the Justice Centre for Somatic Care. My colleague Sander Dekker, the Minister for Legal Protection, shared this with you during an AO with your Chamber on 6 February. Let me go straight to the five-point plan for inspection reports. That is good, because then we may have taken the sting out of the debate on a number of points. The uncensored sending reports to the House of Representatives means if it is understood by its definition that you do not get parts from a report as established by the inspection. But I think Mr Van Nispen means a lot more to say that it should not be the case that a report with a report is being found to be wrongly influenced again. That is why I think it is very important to ensure that the annexes to the report include the input of parties who have been heard in the context of hearing and hearing again. But there must also be an annex to the report, which I would like to give you an undertaking that it will be stated which parties have taken part in hearing and hearing the contents of the report. Then we can determine if anyone has interfered and there has been any mention of this. I shall look again at Mr Markuszower's unauthorized influence. So, if I may put it that way, I understand that point very well. The inspection has a protocol for the control of communication, information and timing. Moreover, this protocol means that for some time in its final form the report is given to the Ministry under embargo and sometimes also to stakeholders. I think it should stay that way. In the context of transparency, as a Chamber, you can still determine how it happened. I myself think it would be wise if the report were to come out and the policy response with the responsibility of the Ministry is clear. Mr. Chairman. I come to legal independence and the separate budget. I fully agree with Mr Van Dam.... I do not say that because I have not mentioned him yet.... on the point that we must realise that I am now politically responsible for the OVV, which we were talking about recently, and for this inspection. Those are two very different types of institutions, but still. I am prepared to say that I will return to your Chamber and that I will go into it in more detail, but as a preliminary thought, I would like to say that we really need to think very carefully about whether we want to put that inspection completely outside any kind of political responsibility. Then we would not be able to have a debate like this. Then we would no longer be able to talk about who was appointed or proposed in such an inspection. But then it is also complicated to have a discussion about one of the parties mentioned in such a report. Think of a report reporting on five or six judicial institutions, such as the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and the Judicial Institutions Service. Then it becomes a very complicated story when they come up with their own stories. And who should then ultimately be politically responsible for, for example, the inspection's incorrect conclusions or recommendations? In theory, they're still possible. I will return to those points in detail. But we're gonna have to keep a close eye on that for a while. It is already so already under the previous direction of the inspection, but perhaps that was also the management style towards me, that I simply get a call with the statement 'we are going to investigate this; we have seen this subject and we are going to work on it' without me or Mr Dekker being able to say 'ho, wait a minute' in any way. Of course, there are also situations in which we request an inspection inquiry. But I wanted to bring that to your attention. I understand the point of removing the inspection, but I do think that "out of the house" should always mean that the inspection is geographically present in the area. Because it is a bit of a shame, cost-effectively, to set the inspection at a great distance. In the letter I would like to offer on this subject, I would like to take a look at Mr Groothuizen and Mr Van Nispen's question again as to whether there is an additional guarantee of independence. Perhaps then you should think of a council of advice or a supervisory board to see to that point, something like what we recently saw with the Attorney General at the Supreme Court and the Public Prosecutor's Office. I will return to that in a letter. Then I would like to look at the question raised by Mrs Van der Graaf, among others, about the independence of national inspections as a whole. Although I, as Minister of Justice and Security, have noticed that I am responsible for a great deal, it is on the list of five points for which I am not. That lies with the Home Secretary. I would suggest that he or, if Mrs Ollongren were to return in the foreseeable future, she will come back to you on that point, because that really extends a little further. Mr President, I shall move on quickly...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u133	Let me now turn to the fine list of proposals that has been tabled. It is good that the Minister is so constructive, but I am just trying to understand point three about legal independence. The minister did a bit of: that's very complicated. But given the doctrine of ministerial responsibility, isn't it true that you need authority to be responsible? Or isn't it that simple? I'd love to hear it, too. I understand you have to hold a certain degree of authority. Otherwise, you can't have this debate. So that's where the shoe gets a little bit of point three. I think it's okay to have that clear here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u134	Yeah, I think that's right. If it were to be legally independent, we would have to face the fact that there is no political responsibility and no legal influence that your Chamber can exercise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u135	Okay. With regard to point one and point two, the Minister has actually said in so many words that it is largely already happening, but that he is going to state it explicitly once again. With regard to point five, the good promise has been made that they will move. We do not need to talk about the postal code area and how far that should be, but another building is already quite something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u136	Well, I'll get back to you in the letter. This is certainly something that has been pointed out, but the staff needs to be heard about it and so on. I am now giving an initial response to the points from my political responsibility. I'll admit I'll get back to you in a letter as soon as I can, before the meireces. Then I want to tell you how that idea ends up and what I think. One of you said, "We're in the elevator together." Well, in the current situation, perhaps that is not always recommended. Another example was that people get a bit acidic when they go into the building. I understand that last point very well. On the other hand, you still have to keep in touch with the activities. So I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u137	Look. Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u138	I have indeed raised the question more broadly, because I think there is reason to look more broadly at the state inspections. I understand the Minister's reply: then you must be with the Minister for the Interior, because it is actually about it. But this minister is responding here today on behalf of the government. Does he see that we have an issue here that we should look at nationally?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u139	I would like to refer immediately to Mrs Buitenweg's question as to why no research is being carried out into the experienced internal pressure. I made a commitment on this, which I will not return to. However, we must realise that the final responsibility for reports lies with the inspector-general of the inspection in question. Now I am speaking for my inspection JenV: it means that the inspector general, but also his managers under his responsibility, may give certain instructions about investigations. That's not unusual in itself either. Whether the way in which this is done needs to be adjusted, as indeed the ADR has established with the JenV Inspection, is a question that should be asked first by inspection. I am not going to go any further about that, but I think you should first determine whether there is a broader problem or not. That's really gotta be BZK's colleague. Then you have to see what the measures are. At any rate, when placing the WODC at a distance, I said at the time that I think it is appropriate, whether or not similar institutions in other departments, to set it up in this way with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u140	Okay, go on. I can see Mrs Van der Graaf having doubts. Yes, Mrs. Van der Graaf?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u141	The Minister simply refers to the Minister of the Interior on this point. I understand that, but that doesn't stop me from just making that point here, because I think there is a reason to take it more broadly. Ladies and gentlemen in the Chamber have said different things about this today. I would like to put another question to the Minister. I have seen that we received a letter this morning from Minister Knops about these indications, and the Minister himself is now bringing them up. But that's another investigation that's being deployed. It does not look at placing an inspection outside a department, i.e. outside the department that inspects that inspection itself. Is that something this Minister of Justice and Security is considering for his Justice and Security Inspectorate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u142	As part of the five-point plan of the duo Van Nispen and Groothuizen I said that I will come back to that point as well. In any case, as a preliminary point of view, I can actually imagine this because of the tourniquet problem that I think Mrs Buitenweg was talking about: you meet at the entrance; then one looks at the other a bit acidic and that sort of thing. Because of that kind of thing alone, that could be wise. I am not yet taking a final position on this, because I would also like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u143	You'll get back to that. Very briefly, Mr. Van Nispen. The Minister must also answer other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u144	That is correct, Mr President, but in order to avoid this point being forgotten, I have a question. I had made a sixth proposal in a personal capacity, which I would also like to have included in the letter. That was the suggestion that the leadership of the ministry should be manned as much as possible by people who know or even come out of the field of work, in order to avoid a politically desirable outcome. Can that also be reflected in the letter? That was one of the suggestions I made myself. This is not part of the five-point plan, but I had added this point myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u145	Is this about the leadership of the Ministry or the inspection?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u146	The lead of the inspection. The question is whether this is indeed a person from the high-ranking civil servants' pool, but whether it is an independent person who knows you from the field, who knows that field well and knows what needs to be taken into account in these inspections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u147	I do not always know the people from the field, but to my great appreciation, for example, the current Inspector-General is someone who comes out of the field very clearly, so to speak, or at least has a lot of experience in it. I don't know if you should always impose that as a must. Sometimes someone can be very suitable because they have certain scientific qualities, for example. Mr. Chairman. There is one thing that Mrs Buitenweg has fortunately raised, which I would like to emphasise very clearly. It's about the paraphrase of a possible quote of another paraphrase of mine, as I would have said "well, we're not going to do anything with it, because that's all a lot easier than in the Chamber" or that sort of thing. It is good to say again, now that I have this opportunity, that I have never said anything like that and that, as far as I know, the then psg did not speak of me in that sense either. If the paraphrase of the quote had been submitted to me in advance, I would have said: I never said this. I just wanted to make that very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u148	Very briefly, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u149	I had already understood that Minister Grapperhaus had said that he had never said that, so I accept that for true. My point is that I understand that the Deputy Secretary-General has said so. Or does the Minister now say: that is really a quote that does not touch either side, it has not been said?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u150	I have just spoken to the Deputy Secretary-General in another context. I asked him the question again. He doesn't recognize himself in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u151	Okay. Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u152	The inspection only started in 2012. That is also a good point raised by Mrs Buitenweg. The question is: are there plans for the new organisation to independently monitor the quality of work and culture? I have asked the new Inspector-General to give priority to the renovation work over the next few months. The work on which the ADR adopted a monitoring report in December has not yet been completed. I also asked him to come up with a plan of action for further development of the Justice and Security Inspectorate. I'd like to send those results to your room first. They're here this spring, that's what I've been promised. Then I'll reflect on that. I would then like to discuss with your Chamber how an independent screening could take place. It's now 2020. I do think that the idea of using it next year, for example, is not a bad idea at all. But that means I think it's a good idea. I've already said something about how it happened that I wasn't aware of it and I've explained what that has to do with it. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked a question about the royal road. Rehearsal is part of a careful investigation process. The inspection is transparent about this and is always going to annex what has come out of it. So that can now get a place in the rehearsal. You also saw that in a few more recent reports. I am thinking here of the report on the tragic state of affairs at the Maasstad Hospital in Rotterdam. Furthermore, in practice, almost all inspection reports include a policy response, in which a possible different view of the conclusions can also be given a place, so that we can always have the debate on this with each other. Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on fast. Mrs. Kuik asked what happens to the whistleblowers. The Inspector General and I have spoken to the reporters. I have expressed my support for them in that conversation for the fact that I really admired them for having also made themselves known to their colleagues. That's not easy. Then you're exposed and there's always someone who doesn't agree with you, and that's the way it should be. The reporters have told me in a personal conversation that they have good contact with the confidential persons and that they have appreciated the work of the integrity coordinator, who has kept in touch with them. I say it out loud here in the Chamber, but I also said it to them: that you have made a report and that you have now made yourself known should not have any influence on your further work and/or career. Mr President, I see Mrs Kuiken coming...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u153	And then you stopped...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u154	Yeah, I thought that would be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u155	Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u156	I usually show up, so that's okay. I specifically asked the Minister if, for example, he would like to see how these people are doing in a year's time. It's nice that you feel heard and recognized in the short term, I have to assume that you do, but unfortunately I don't always have positive experiences with cross-thinkers within those departments. I specifically ask the Minister to just check on these people in a year's time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u157	That sounds good to me. It's noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u158	Maybe the minister's gonna come up, but he's already said something about those two hats. I don't get it anymore. The minister says he didn't wear the boss's hat. That's someone else; it's just as unclear to me who. But he will, at the request of Mrs Kuiken, give proper personal care in the coming year by asking again how things are going. How's that? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u159	I would like to mention pre-political responsibility. I think I should be able to say to the Chamber in a year's time, so I take Mrs Kuiken's request to say that the people who have reported to my ministry and who have then taken a step forward by saying 'we were' are not going to be taken into account. I think that is a political responsibility. I would like to say to Mr van Dam that I am not going to go into all kinds of personal matters. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u160	And yet I don't get it. I have just been looking at the Civil Service Act, but I believe that you are the one who is ultimately formally engaged in employment law relations with all those civil servants. I don't know who it is, but in the end it's you. It's not even so much that we get it here, it's mostly that officials in your ministry understand what it is. Because then we end up with the lady from the WODC who was a whistle-blower. I guess she didn't catch a damn thing after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u161	Then you underestimate my officials, whom I generally qualify as "very well informed." Let me put it this way: I am ultimately responsible for everything, at least in my ministry. There is a mandating of everything regarding employer responsibility to the Secretary-General and the organisation underneath. Even at a smaller ministry there would be no life left, because then I have to have all the review interviews myself with everyone and I know a lot about what. That's what I'd like to report. The Secretary-General directs the organisation and the people as such, but I still have the political ultimate responsibility for this. It has to be. We have had a number of debates with each other about the fact that a number of personnel issues were not working properly. Let me give you an example: the WODC debate on the fact that the whistleblower scheme was not properly applied. I'm politically responsible for that. However, as Mr Van Dam rightly says, daily management has been mandated to the Secretary-General. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u162	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u163	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'll move on soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u164	I have just written down the words 'pre-political responsibility'. I'll remember that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hear Mrs Buitenweg say "for scrabble." For the average yogasnuiver it is a complicated term, but it is quite a clear word. Who knows it's gonna win this year? Mr. Chairman. How does that work now, asked Mr Van Dam, with that protocol method inspection. That Protocol was amended in 2018. The current procedure provides for a transparent hearing process. Another hearing will take place on the draft report and the conclusions that will be submitted. Those conclusions are based on facts which appear to be incorrect on the basis of re-examination. I'm saying it wrong. Conclusions which do not appear to be correct on the basis of the second hearing shall be adjusted. Recommendations are out there. I have agreed with the Inspector-General that we really need to ensure that it is actually 100% applied in this way. Mr. Chairman. Mr Markuszower, or Mr Van Nispen, I would like to say who exactly, excuses have been asked about the Central Coordinator Integrity. His role in this case has been according to the detectors as it should be. For the rest, I do not deal with the actions of individual officials. I come back to the point where, if it does not go as it should, I take political responsibility for that. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a few follow-up points on the WODC. I say to Mrs Van der Graaf that a vision of the future is currently being worked on at the WODC. The reform of research programming is also part of this. We really pay attention to the wish that the program has been living with the WODC for some time to be more dg-over, so that we can say more about this, like the inspection itself: we are going to do research on this. How exactly the WODC wants to shape programming is a responsibility, which your Chamber understands, which I leave with the WODC. In this respect, I would like to reassure Mrs Van der Graaf: there is continued attention to the measures and the independent transition consultant................................................................................................................................................................................................. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Nispen and Mr Groothuizen asked how I now look back on the criminal investigation and its handling. I explained to your Chamber earlier in a letter, and also in a general consultation which took place after that, that the criminal investigation took place there. The declaration was made on the basis of the advice given by the Public Prosecutor's Office. I have already said out loud to one of the media, which has also been published, that I was not waiting for it. It gives me relief that that's over now. We have been able to make a compensation arrangement with Mrs Van Ooyen and can now continue with the adjustments to the WODC.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u166	But it did happen, and it's been a really embarrassing show. The Minister can say that he is not happy that it has happened, but it has been his conscious choices, perhaps not from the minister but from his ministry, to report the 20 leaks that had been made on that one issue. And of that we knew that there was a right leak because there was nowhere to go internally with the report about the WODC affair. Am I very far off when I say that it is true that several civil servants, who by the revelations of Nieuwsuur.................................................................................................................................................... If I'm wrong, I'll ask the Minister. My follow-up question is: doesn't the Minister think that with all the people who were bugged in this affair, all whistleblowers and whistleblowers, Mrs. Van Ooyen was the only one who was neat? Have they all received excuses and satisfaction? How does the Minister look back on this whole thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u167	Then, with all due respect, we shall return to a discussion which Mr Van Nispen and I have had before. There were about 20 leaks. They've been investigated in my assignment. No official has any blame or involvement whatsoever. I said, "I want it to be seen outside independently." The Public Prosecutor's Office has no influence whatsoever on my ministry, as far as I can tell, but I have really taken a critical look at that saying: in this case we see, as it is called, criminal opportunity. I don't know if that's the right term at all, but okay. With fresh reluctance, I have concluded that and said that you will have to report it. I gave you that article of the law, too. That is entirely my responsibility, not of any civil servant. Afterwards, while the D.A. was investigating, there were conversations with officials with people involved in that investigation. I said that this should not have happened, and then the most responsible official, Mr Delors, said that it was my responsibility to do so, and I put my duties at my disposal. I keep saying I respect him for doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u168	But not all those people who started playing detectives at the Ministry did. Anyway, that's a factual finding. The Minister says I had no choice. That's not true, of course. If he really felt that leaks should have been reported, he would have had to report all 20 leaks and not just in that one issue, where officials felt put in their shirt by Nieuwsuur's revelations about the political manipulation of those independent scientific investigations. It is too coincidental that this particular matter has been reported. Then the minister or his ministry should have chosen to report all those investigations. Then indeed a lot of sepots or something that ends in nothing. It is embarrassing that, of all things, in the one case, where there was just a proper report of a whistleblower, who should have gotten a statue and not a wiretap, has been reported. That's not right. My question as to whether the Minister thinks that all the detectors and whistleblowers who have been unjustly bugged have been properly handled has not been answered either. How does the Minister look back on this? Why didn't they all get excuses and conversations?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u169	Let me start with that last question right away. I have discussed this with Mr Van Nispen before. The National CID and the State's Attorney's Office did that investigation. They decide on the use of means of detection. I didn't file a complaint against X or Y, but because of the fact that, according to the D.A., a criminal offence had been committed. It is further up to the National Criminal Court and the D.A. to determine which means of investigation are being used. I took the initiative to settle with the original whistleblower, for the simple reason that she was involved in that case again several times. I think she should be compensated for that. As far as the first is concerned, I do not share the point at all that it was embarrassing or anything like that. I have also written to your Chamber that I do not think it is possible, as a minister, to say that, if the Public Prosecutor thinks that there is a criminal opportunity or position with a technical term, it is bad for me. Mr Van Nispen knows that I was not waiting for that at all, after we said that we would proceed with improvement measures in three investigations. I can assure you that it was absolutely no pleasure for me to have to report this particular case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u170	I think the minister's only telling half a story here anyway. By the way, I'd like to assume he wasn't waiting for this. And I think the Minister was not happy about this at the end of the day. He's right to say that that's what the law says, that you have to file a report for some things. But the law also states that the Minister has a special power of direction, which I personally am less and less a fan of. But there is that power. So the Minister can also say that in a particular case he no longer wants to be tracked down. But you'll have to send a note to the House of Representatives. That's the whole story. On the one hand, there is the obligation to report, but on the other hand, there is the possibility of saying at some point: this is going too far for me. Perhaps a case in which the magnifying glass falls on someone who we all agree has done nothing wrong, is such a case to use. I believe that the Minister should at least take account of the fact that he has that responsibility and that he deliberately did not use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u171	In the past, when my children in education expected an inconsistent decision from me, I said: I'm not crazy Gerrit. I would also like to make it quite clear here that I am not the crazy Gerrit who first says 'there are twenty leaks and I want to have an independent examination of whether something should be done with them', Mr Grothuizen knows that there were twenty very annoying and painful things on that list and that, if this is what comes out of it, says: you know, I'm going to write to the Chamber that I'm giving a clue not to do anything with it. Then I'd be the one I would have been if I'd been inconsistent with my kids. You can't, because then you're so inconsistent. I'm not gonna do that. And now you can chastise me in the Chamber about how this went down. I will take that into account, because that is the way it should be, and then there is indeed a scratch in the proper way that we have been working with your Chamber and with those three committees to investigate what else needs to be done at the WODC. I'm very sorry about that, but I'm not going to have that examined first and then, if the D.A. tells me something that doesn't suit me, give me a clue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u172	That problem could easily have been solved by the Minister. I've said that to him before. He should have reported 20 incidents. Then you could have seen what came out of the funnel underneath. He chose to do that at the bottom of the funnel. My point is that if he himself in this discussion always refers to the formality, to the letter of the law, he must also highlight the other side of the letter of the law, which I have just outlined. We recently received a letter from the Minister stating that one of his predecessors had an expert on a particular issue drawn up three times because he did not agree with the prosecution. Then the Minister says, quite rightly in my view, that he was allowed to do so formally. You could have formally told the D.A. I don't think it's appropriate in this case anymore. If this is the outcome, I wouldn't have wanted to do it. I think it would be a good thing for you to say: you are right, Mr Grothuizen, I could have formally done that, but I chose not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u173	But I just explained why I didn't. That has nothing to do with that formal authority. Mr Grothuizen referred to this formal competence, and that is correct in itself. But I don't think you can say first "you tell me what to do" and then say after an opinion, "I'm not gonna do any of that." Then you have to say that in advance. And the funnel story of Mr Groothuizen has also been debated before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u174	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u175	I have said that it is not going to work if you throw twenty cases in the blind, including a few very painful ones, on the doorstep of the prosecutor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u176	Yeah, that's what it's said. Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u177	I would like to come back to the tweeting story, because that has something to do with it. I've been working within the DA's office for years. There you had the role of employer and at the same time the role of researcher. If those two scrolls came together, you'd get them to split up as soon as possible. So you were looking for someone else to do the case. It has nothing to do with this minister's personal integrity. There's no doubt about that at all. It has purely to do with the function. This minister, unlike all the other ministers, has the State's Attorney's Office under him and is therefore in very different situations, also in relation to his own people, than any other minister. That's what I meant by my point. I have a very specific question. Would it not be very desirable, in such situations, that, if there is a coincidence, perhaps another member of the board who is an employer? You can't play the role of head of the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u178	I don't know how complicated we have to make life with each other. In the end, I have that responsibility and the prosecution is also under me. The question of the extent to which this power of direction should be available will be discussed in the future. I very much believe in transparency, in accountability to the Chamber. I also believe that, hopefully, you have noticed this in very strong debates, saying exactly what it says. I think that's a lot better than us walking to the neighbor's house every time and saying, "Can you do that file for me?" I don't think we should do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u179	I suggest you move on and finish up as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u180	Yes, I'm very fast now, Mr. Chairman. I've answered most of the cases by now. I have also said something about Mr Van Nispen's question to make it impossible to listen to certain parties. Again, the criminal investigation into how that happens is at the state's attorney's office. One might think that there should be an exception for the House of Whistleblowers. I ask my colleague in the Interior and Kingdom Relations to take that point further and report to the Chamber on it, because that is his policy responsibility. Mr. Chairman. I spoke to the unions in November. That's been shared with the Chamber before. We are currently examining whether the position of trusted officials can be strengthened by granting them, for example, a degree of right of change through internal regulation. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a few things about the culture of the department. I think I can get through that fast. A question has been asked about the appointment of the Secretary-General. There's just a profile for that. It was made public on the website of the ABD. That's clear, I think. Let me say out loud that I have a great deal of confidence in the newly appointed Secretary-General. It is someone with a long track record and great knowledge of the department's content. I have been shown during the period when he was previously working under my responsibility that he is at least someone who can handle conflict well, at least contradict me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u181	Very briefly, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u182	The Minister's making a bit of a joke about it, but I'm really worried about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u183	No, I'm serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u184	The Minister says that the Secretary-General can handle conflicting with me. That may be so, but the question is of course whether he can also deal with the contradiction of people who are employed much shorter, who are working on an inspection report that is very complicated. That's exactly what I'm worried about. We have had discussions before about the fact that Mr Schoof has really interfered in something. At that time, the ministers said that they could understand that, because he was emotionally involved. I am genuinely very concerned that you are on the one hand engaged in a whole cultural change, especially on paper, there are also real steps being taken and on the other hand there is a somewhat unfortunate hand with a number of appointments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u185	Now I have to be careful, because it is said: an unfortunate hand with a number of appointments. A number of people have recently been appointed to my ministry, or at least under my responsibility. A new Director-General for Police and Security Regions will be arriving shortly. I'm just saying I'm very excited about these appointments. I really don't want to be silly about it. I am really confident that Mr Schoof will not only be good for the functioning of the ministry, but also that he will help to further the process of change. This has not only to do with the fact that he is indeed someone who can deal with contradiction, including from people other than the minister himself. It has also simply to do with supporting the culture, which has indeed changed in recent years. I'm confident and I'm fine with talking about it later, six months from now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u186	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u187	No, this is my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u188	It's a good thing the Minister has faith in that. In a year's time, we will see if we have made progress. I am not only concerned that Mr Schoof can deal with criticism, but also that others feel invited to do so. I did not want to say anything about the appointments, some of which were referred to by the Minister. That's a little lame. I was concerned about what I just said about the Committee on Integrity, for example. Those were some appointments that I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u189	That's what the Minister's coming up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u190	I do care that the right culture is used, with the right people and with the right look. Even if they are the right people, it is also about the look.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u191	That is why I am very pleased that Mrs Buitenweg has just mentioned those appointments in the Committee on Integrity. We have involved the trade unions and the departmental works council. I can also tell you that I myself had zero point zero interference with that. I think that's how we should do it. After that, people were appointed with experience. By the way, when I checked that, I understood that the two people who first sat at the House for Whistleblowers also got out of it themselves. The report then showed that they were not to blame. I would just like to say that, because this is also about people who have a career in public life. I would therefore like to emphasise this very much. The next thing I'm going to say is to Mrs Buitenweg. I think it should be like this, with good people in the right place. Good people have experience, calluses on the soul and no doubt also a scratch on their resume. Mr. Chairman. You don't believe it, but I'm at the end. Is the culture to cover up uncomfortable pieces pretty much gone now? Have we really learned now? Mr Van Wijngaarden asked for that. I have said before that the nature of the work makes it possible for the Ministry to always work at the sharp edge of the cut. There's never any way to rule out a mistake in this job. That doesn't mean there's a lot of mistakes to be made, but there's always gonna be something like that. That's what you need to talk to each other about. You should then call me on that. I think I am quite high in the classification of oral questions. I'd like to be on that. That's what I really want to end up with. I believe that the people I am dealing with in the Ministry, what many are, are increasingly applying the culture of openness and contradiction. The same goes for the people who have been there for a long time. Let's continue with each other that way. I don't recognize the image that my officials' orbital speed is too high. I can tell you that I conducted a little survey in the civil servants' room for the niceness of it. It turned out to be very, very bad at the time. There was even someone who said: I have to pick up my pin for 25 years. Those people are there, aren't they? But I really think things are going well. By the way, the ABD conducts research into this speed of circulation in general, but the Minister of BZK will come back to you on that. Then I'm really done, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u192	The Chamber has tabled a motion for a resolution on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u193	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u194	That's good to hear. In the report that is to follow, I suppose we can also see how that is specific to the Ministry of Justice. The tone and the summit are important, a good tone at the top today of the minister! But that applies to all executives. If they are only very short, then such a new culture does not perpetuate, because a culture also needs cultural carriers. So I would like to hear to what extent the Justice Department is returning to that list. If it's not in there, I'd still like to get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u195	But I think we're talking about a BZK review right now. I can pass it on to BZK, but I assume that the Justice Department will also be included in the annex and the statistics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u196	It is nice that the Minister conducted a survey in the civil servants' chamber, but we have also seen the publication in NRC Handelsblad, which was specifically seen at the Ministry of Justice. That publication is based on serious journalism research and therefore I do not want to take it off too easily. I think it is a real point, and that is why I am calling on the Minister of Justice. I think that it is precisely senior officials who are decisive and have always been decisive for the continuation of this culture which we want, and which the Minister also has a heartfelt interest in here. I have a motion on this point, but thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u197	Thank you. This brings us to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u198	The truth is not an option. That needs to be made very clear at the Ministry of Justice and Security. It remains necessary to emphasise that. I told you, ten years of VVD policy is taking its toll anyway. The pattern in the WODC affair and this debate on the inspection reports is that reports and investigations have been modified, reports have not been investigated and whistleblowers have been addressed. Only when we publish the media will we hear what is happening and the Minister announces further investigations, which is good in itself. I continue to worry deeply about the Ministry and therefore the next motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that serious errors at the Ministry of Justice and Security, including in the WODC affair and the discussion on adapting inspection reports, raise the question of how the promised cultural change is going at the Ministry of Justice and Security;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a thorough, external investigation into the culture within the official summit of the Ministry of Justice and Security, and to send it to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the WODC affair it was found that the alarms were bugged while they should have been protected, and that the House for Whistleblowers could also be bugged;]] [[Whereas attorneys have been provided with both the police and the Judicial Institutions Department to prevent them from being eavesdropped through a number recognition system, which can serve as an example for the House of Whistleblowers;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that the House for Whistleblowers cannot be bugged, so that everyone can safely and confidentially report a wrongdoing to the House for Whistleblowers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that during the debate on the reports of the Justice and Security Inspectorate several proposals were made to ensure independence and better position the inspection, such as sending reports uncensored to the Chamber, keeping communication at home at the inspection and remote inspection, physical, organisational and financial (a separate budget);]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of how the proposals to better position the inspection and ensure independence will be implemented,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28844-205]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Nispen, Kikken and Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28844-206]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Groothuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28844-207]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u199	My penultimate remark is that I remain of the opinion that an independent investigation should also be carried out into the fear culture within the prison hospital in Scheveningen, the Justice Centre for Somatic Care. But we will come back to that in the continuation of the general consultation Prisoners, with the Minister for Legal Protection. My final comment is about the quote 'I am not trying to send the report to the Chamber, that is what I agreed with Grapperhaus'. Is the Minister quite sure Mrs Buitenweg also asked that this quote was not done, not by the Minister but also by the deputy sg or another official? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u200	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u201	Thank you, Madam President. To start with the latter, the human affairs, that is, of course, uncomfortable, I understand that too. The minister stands for his people. At the same time, I would like to express my concern. That's what I've done. I sincerely wish the Committee on Integrity a flying start. It is about to begin and I sincerely hope that this will be in support of all the people who are ringing the bell. I hope she feels supportive. Anyway, we'll learn that in the future. I received three commitments during this debate. This piece of paper you see here, Madam President, does not contain any motions. No. Firstly, like colleagues from the SP and D66, who have done a lot of good work, I want to ensure that at least the inspection takes place outside the towers. We'll be briefed on that. We are also informed of an independent quality check and of how conflict can play a role in the inspection. I thank the Minister for that. I thought one promise was pretty big. I don't understand how it suddenly came. That is the promise about the internal influence. Mind you, I have accepted this commitment that the investigation is not only about external influence but also about the internal, completely. But if I read the whole piece of paper correctly, there are two things that are pointed out: the style of leadership............................................................................................................................................................................................ I cannot escape the impression that this is what has apparently been given to the Minister and that it has become clear here in the debate that there is perhaps something in the idea that internal influence needs to be investigated. So my big question to the Minister is: how can it be that it has not been thought before that internal influence should also be investigated? This does not prevent me from thanking him very much for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u202	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I now give the floor to Mr Markuszower on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u203	Thank you, Mr President. A motion from my side, from the PVV side. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Ministry of Justice and Security has adapted research results of reports for years, thus keeping sensitive information away from the House of Representatives;]] [[noting that there are mafia practices in the Ministry of Justice and Security;]] [[Whereas this is a threat to the rule of law;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to put an end to these mafia practices and to inform the Court within one month,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28844-208]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u204	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u205	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Minister for answering the many questions that have been put to him today. Let me start with the future. It is good that the Minister wishes to comment on the proposals that have been made, including by myself and Mr Van Nispen. A number of thoughts have already been expressed by the Minister that he wants to take over. From a number of others he says in essence that he wants to find out more, but that he also sees some hooks and eyes. I want to give him the space to figure that out, and I'd like him to sketch some sort of scenario of how you could shape the greater distance. What are the possibilities there? I can also imagine the Minister saying: I have a preference for this. No problem, as a room we can find something of that again. He can therefore indicate what the possible disadvantages are. Well, then we've got that sharp, too. I think that is also true of the arguments put forward by Mr Van Dam, for example. A brief look at the past. I don't think it's all as convincing when you put together the way things were. I therefore fear that my conclusion is that the problems in the department are far from over. It is not good, I think, that after the WODC and the long-term process of change these things still occur. The proof of the pudding is a saying, but I'm afraid this pudding still doesn't taste very good. I find that disappointing. Finally, a question to the Minister. Last Monday NRC Handelsblad published a report and an internal note on problems at the IND. It does not fall within the Minister's portfolio, but he will undoubtedly have got it. So that internal note was leaked to the paper. I am very curious whether this incident has also been reported and, if not, why it has not. I can imagine that the Minister would not be ready immediately, but I would like to receive a letter explaining what happened to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u207	Thank you, Mr. Groothuizen. I now give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u208	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you in particular to the Minister and, in fact, to all Members. I thought it was an open debate, and that is exactly what is needed. I would also like to thank the Minister for at least the willingness to look very seriously at moving the inspection. It's a good thing he says he's gonna discuss that with the staff. With regard to the short term of office of some officials at higher level, to which NRC referred earlier, I had prepared a motion for a resolution. But I'm not filing it. I'm just gonna wait and see what we can find out about Justice. Otherwise, we will find the Minister again. Finally. I do not think it can be emphasised often enough that when it comes to an open culture in which mistakes are learned, that indeed requires something from us as a Chamber. It's easier said than done. If there's social fuss, it's our job to address it here. That is possible, but at the same time the officials must be sure in the implementing organisations that we are not here, as I said earlier, just looking to see if there is another snail that we can put salt on. That's what I wanted to finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u209	Thank you, Mr. Van Wijngaarden. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u210	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply. I have raised three points, first of all the two hats. I have to say that I have not been given a satisfactory answer, but you do not always get satisfactory answers in life either. Perhaps in the future there will again be a situation in which we will continue this discussion. As far as the recommendations are concerned, I have a motion that has been co-signed by Mr Grootehuizen, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Buitenweg, Mr Van Wijngaarden and Mr Van der Graaf. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Protocol for the operation of the JenV Inspection requires that the draft report be submitted to the persons responsible for the investigation and/or officials concerned without any re-examination recommendations;]] [[noting that several recent inspection reports show that draft recommendations and recommendations are indeed submitted prior to publication of the report;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that draft recommendations and recommendations are not submitted for re-examination to investigated organisations and their officials,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Dam, Grootehuizen, Van Nispen, Buitenweg, Van Wijngaarden and Van der Graaf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28844-209]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u211	Then I have another motion, which is on the third point of my speech, namely the letter from the Minister of the Interior this morning on the state-wide investigation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that all inspections function under the National Inspection Instructions, which, as part of a broad evaluation of so-called remote national organisations, will be evaluated by the end of 2021;]] [[Whereas there are concerns not only about the operation of the Justice and Security Inspectorate but also about the functioning of a large number of other inspections;]] [[Whereas the recurrent concerns about the functioning of inspections and the evident importance of ensuring the independence of these inspections are more specific than a broad evaluation of national organisations in the general sense and requires more urgency;]] [[calls on the Government to separate the evaluation of the National Inspection Instructions from the broad evaluation of national organisations and to send the Court an interim report on this evaluation by summer 2020, including a vision of the Board of Inspections on the independence of inspections,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Dam, Van der Graaf and Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28844-210]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u212	A final short sentence. I can imagine this Minister saying that this is more on the board of his colleague from BZK, but unfortunately, this issue is taking place today in this debate. I would be willing to take this motion and then hear a response from the cabinet, but I would like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u213	Yeah, let's wait for the reaction first. Thank you, Mr. Van Dam. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his answers in the first term and also for his willingness to learn from this and to look critically at how the independence of inspection can be improved, and also to work on the proposals that have been made here from the Chamber. I think that's very good. I also expressed my concerns about cultural change in the Ministry of Justice and Security in the first term. We're worried about that. We also talk about this regularly in the Chamber. That is why I have also signed the motion tabled by Mr Van Nispen. Sometimes it's weird eyes that force it. A culture change doesn't go overnight. I think there's reason to co-table the motion. I made it a broader point in the first period, because reports have been published on how influence has taken place in the Inspection Environment and Transport. I have indicated the position of State surveillance of the Mines at the gas extraction and the Ministry of EZK. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that inspections of public authorities should be able to act in a completely independent manner and that appropriate distance from the department it inspects is important;]] [[Whereas there are several possibilities for achieving this appropriate distance, such as physically separating an inspection, separating financial flows and placing the inspection outside the department it inspects;]] [[calls on the Government to examine publicly how the independence of public inspections can be better secured and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Van Dam and Mr Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28844-211]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u215	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u216	Mr. Chairman. I'll deal with the seven motions first. Then I come to three separate questions. The motion in part No. 205 by Mr Van Nispen, I recommend. I have already indicated in the first place that a lot of things have changed with the culture process. There have been some crucial changes at the summit in recent times. I had a brief debate on this with Mrs Buitenweg. I always answer politically to you about how things are going. I hope that we have debated this very well today, in terms of content and substance, at least as far as I am concerned. So this motion has been dissuaded. The motion in part No. 206 I'd like to pass on. At least I don't want to pass the motion, but I promised I'd pass on the demand for Home Affairs. That is why we are working on it. If you're going to table a motion on that with me now, I'm going to have to advise against it. So I hope you'll hold the motion. Then the Minister of the Interior can come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u217	This discussion does not fall out of the sky. We've known for a long time that this is a problem. The number recognition system, for example, that we have for lawyers, is also in the Ministry of Justice and Security. So, as far as I am concerned, there is a responsibility for this minister too. But if he says he appreciates that the Minister of the Interior is also responding to it, I am fine with that. But I think we can do that just for Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u218	Is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u219	Then I'm really going to dissuade the motion. I'm not dealing with the Secretary of State's agenda. I can assure you that the Minister for Foreign Affairs replied in writing before the end of this month. So that's in three or three and a half weeks or so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u220	Under that promise, I would like to keep the motion, but I would appreciate it if the Minister interfered, that he did not just refer it to Home Affairs, but said: we are going to look at this together. So we'll get that reaction by the end of this month.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u221	I don't know if I can say it or if that's a new word here, but then I say deal. We're about to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u222	At the request of Mr Van Nispen, I propose his motion (28844, No. 206). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u223	Hold until 1 April or the first Tuesday after 1 April. That is with the promise that I will come back to that together with the BZK colleague. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 207 by Mr Van Nispen, I give judgment to the Chamber. I think it is a good thing that I come back to all these five points. If I may explain the motion in this way, that includes a response to Mr Grothuizen's request for scenarios. That is what the first three motions for resolutions are about. The motion in part No. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The motion in part No. 209 by Mr Van Dam, on the draft recommendations, on that hearing and so on, is the Court of Justice's opinion. I'd like to ask for the motion in part No. Mr Van Dam, rapporteur. - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Van Dam on his excellent report. I say in one breath that I also do that for the motion in part No. 211 of Mrs Van der Graaf wants to ask, because it is also about national research.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u224	With what argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u225	They're both "rich-breed." That's BZK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u226	That is the same argument as Mr Van Nispen. Mr Van Dam. I also see Mrs Van der Graaf standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u227	I imagined that myself. I'd only like it if we could put some kind of deadline on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u228	Does that also apply to you, Mrs. Van der Graaf?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u229	That's exactly what I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u230	Three more questions. First of all about the quote that at the time...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u231	No. We've been asked for a deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u232	Oh, a term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u233	Or the deadlines.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u234	Can I promise it's for the meireces? That's a six-week deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u235	The motion states that something must be done before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u236	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u237	Okay. Don't say that!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u238	But I hadn't mentioned a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u239	No, but I had before...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u240	2023. Meireces 2023!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u241	Right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u242	But I had a debate with the Minister earlier today and he said that summer is coming very early this year. That's why I came to the microphone anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u243	But both motions are therefore being held.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u244	And of course, my commitments are just as changeable as the climate. Mr. Chairman. I had three more questions. The first was about the quote of the former psg. I refer to what I said in the first term. I haven't been there. A few weeks ago, in the context of another conversation I had, I thought about it for five minutes. I asked him about it and he said he doesn't recognize himself in that quote. And the suggestion that I would have said something like that is absolutely far from correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u245	Very briefly, Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u246	So the Minister says here that on request the deputy sg says he wouldn't have said anything like that. But the Minister is not saying here either that he can rule out the possibility that such a thing has been said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u247	That something like that has been said by who... Life's gonna be really big, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u248	The quote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u249	Again. Otherwise, the viewers at home won't be able to follow. One. Someone in the newspaper is saying that Mr Barendse would have said what I would have said. I did not say what was attributed to me, nor did I say anything similar to that. I asked the former psg in a conversation: gut, do you recognize in what is attributed to you what you would have said about me? The answer to that was: no, I don't recognize myself in that. The second question was about the IND's declaration. There is always a stand-alone consideration for each leak. There's nothing else I can say about individual matters. Mr. Chairman. Then there was another question from Mrs Buitenweg. Maybe sometimes I make a promise too soon. I sometimes go to an AO and I promise a letter and they don't appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u250	Yeah, I heard that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u251	The craziest things happen to a human being.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u252	But sometimes all kinds of things can be said in a debate, without a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u253	I would like to say one more thing about internal influence. It is clear that the ADR has said about the fire report: there has to be some change in the way in which management involvement was involved, so to speak. That includes influence. So that's what's been picked up. That is what we are going to take up even further as a result of the monitoring report. If your Chamber would like it, although this point has already been taken up, if I would also have those other reports look into the internal influence, I say: fine. I have just asked: the mandate of the ADR is already such that it can be covered. But I still promised a special note to record it. Then I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u254	Thank you for the answers. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament, as well as the people who have followed the debate in the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-8.u255	We are going to vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
