ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the commemoration of the disaster in Lebanon. Before we begin to regulate work, we are considering the Beirut disaster on 4 August 2020. I would like to welcome the Ambassador of Lebanon, Mr Abdel Sattar Issa. I would also like to welcome the Prime Minister. I would like to ask everyone present in the Chamber to stand up. In the public gallery, however, journalists are also welcome, but there are not the people who often follow our debates. But I know that the memorial is streamed and is also broadcast on TV. So also the people who are watching: welcome. On Tuesday night, just over a week ago, the city of Beirut was spooked by a flash of light, immediately followed by a deafening bang. A fire-induced explosion of 2,750 tons of stored ammonium nitrate destroyed, with the power of a small atomic bomb, the port and large parts of the city. With over 200 dead, 6,000 wounded and a quarter million homeless, Beirut was mercilessly hit by this disaster. Or, as an eyewitness desperately said in one of the evening news reports: "In one flash of light Beirut is broken." Speaker and more intrusive than the facts and figures were the images and experiences that went on around the world in the first hours and days after the explosion. We saw rows of houses without roofs and the remains of apartment buildings as concrete skeletons in the remaining skeleton of the city around the harbor. People in shock and sometimes under the blood on the street, barely realizing what had happened. Wounded people who got medical help on the street because a lot of hospitals had been destroyed. We saw people crying, desperately looking for a lover or a missing relative. And there were the piles of shrapnel that broke. In this unprecedented disaster, with an impact that we can hardly imagine, we are standing still today. Out of solidarity. We grieve for the dead. In particular, I would also like to mention the death of Hedwig Waltmans-Molier, who, like some of her colleagues from the Dutch embassy in Beirut, was struck by the explosion. We wish her husband, our Ambassador Jan Waltmans, and their children and relatives much strength in dealing with this tragic loss. We sympathize with a city that, after years of civil war, economic decline, the refugee crisis and the recent corona crisis, was already under so much pressure. Or, like the Lebanese journalist Jenan Moussa, who is now Al Tot TV's correspondent, it said on Twitter: "How do we deal with all this grief? Ever since I was a kid, we've been going from one disaster to another. We're exhausted." But Lebanon is not alone. We give our support to the people, who, despite everything, even now, try to build on the ruins with admirable resilience. We support it with words, but also with deeds. Financial and humanitarian aid has also started from the Netherlands. Aid organisations have joined forces. And the Red Cross on the spot also has many Dutch volunteers and employees. Together with other countries, we want to help deliver food, water, medicine and psychosocial aid, which is most needed at the moment. Grief, sorrow, but also uncertainty and anger prevail after this disaster. But as in the civil war between the ruins the comforting voice of the Lebanese singer Fairouz sounded, this also sounds now. Let me therefore finish with the first line from one of her songs, Li Beirut: men salbi qalamon li beirut. Or: from the bottom of my heart a greeting of peace to Beirut. I now give the floor to our Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Madam President. "We've lost our land." With these five short, intrusive words, a citizen of Lebanon summarized the apocalyptic images that we have not received from our retina since last week. The devastating explosion. The fireball over town. A crater more than 40 meters deep, as in a disaster movie. Glass everywhere, debris. There's destruction everywhere. Chaos and havoc everywhere. The blind panic and despair in the eyes of the people of this city. "Totally unreal" one of the Dutch rescue workers mentioned the situation on the ground. Totally unreal, yet the harsh reality of people who often had little, and now with one blow have lost everything. Our hearts go out to the victims and their families and, of course, to Hedwig Waltmans-Molier, to her husband, Ambassador Jan Waltmans, to their children and to the next family and neighbors. The life of Hedwig Waltmans, a life that served international cooperation and the public interest, suddenly came to an end. That's intensely sad and hard to comprehend. An evil dream for everyone who was dear to her. Among her colleagues at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, too, there is a great deal of report and she will be missed. Her death confronts us with the raw reality that diplomacy can be a trade in the line of fire. Madam President, the stories we hear from Beirut and Lebanon speak of lost hope. Many inhabitants of the country seem to have lost the last spark of confidence in a better future. And yet, after the blow, we saw how the Lebanese help each other and share the little there is. We have also seen how the international community, right after the disaster, has provided massive support and very practical assistance. How neighbouring countries help each other in this emergency, over lingering conflicts and contradictions. Of course, the Netherlands is also contributing and we will continue to do so in the aftermath of this disaster. As a cabinet, but also together as a country, by generously donating on giro 555 of the cooperating aid organizations. Because there must be hope after despair. In the spirit of Hedwig Waltmans, for whom other people helped and trust in the future were self-evident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you. I would now ask you to observe a moment of silence.
