ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the Digital Government Act. We have come to the answer in the first term, which has already taken place. I don't have the exact date.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was just about to say that Mr Elias would have turned on the sound. He will certainly follow the debate, I think, because it is a subject he has been closely involved in in his time as a Member of Parliament. Mr. Chairman. I would like to build up my response to Members' input in the first term, for which I thank them, on the basis of a number of blocks: first a number of general issues; then a block of eRecognization and funding; then the issue of security and privacy; then the issue of citizens and businesses; then on the functioning of the law and its implementation; and finally a number of other questions that have been asked to me. I am very pleased that we can deal with the Digital Government Act here today, because this is a legislative proposal, a framework law, which indicates how the digital government will and can develop over the coming years. We talked about this two weeks ago when we were discussing the amendment of the Passport Act, which, of course, is linked to this. And the fact that the Netherlands digitizes, that society digitizes, is clear; that is visible to everyone. More and more services are provided through online transactions. The government must also take part in this development, based on the idea that we want to lead the way, that society is also asking for this service to be provided. It also offers opportunities for the government to do better than we are doing now, and also to solve problems that are currently arising. As a cabinet, we have developed a broad and ambitious agenda for further digitisation of public administration. As far as I am concerned, this bill is the expression of this cabinet ambition. We work from the values included in the agenda NL DIGIBetter, namely: user-friendliness, privacy protection, security and reliability. In the 2012 government agreement, digital business with the government was included as part of the project. Since then, there has been a lot of work on this bill, first together with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate, because of its responsibility for the business domain, and since this cabinet took office also by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, because we have taken over that domain. So we are now responsible for the digital government, citizens and businesses. The law has a civil and a business part, which matches where possible and differences where necessary. Mr Bosma, who is not yet present but is undoubtedly following the debate, indicated that the law dates from 2017. That is not entirely correct; the law was submitted to the Lower House in mid-2018. There's been a lot of change. I am glad that we have had a constructive debate with the Chamber on this since then, and that I have also heard that widely in the Chamber in the first period of time, the importance of this law is recognised. In addition to a report, your Chamber has submitted a further report, with questions which have led me to make the law even more agile and flexible. This resulted in a letter of amendment in order to be able to recognise private funds through open admission. I will say a little more about this later, but it is a fine proof that the interaction between the Cabinet and the Chamber on this point leads to a better law. It has taken some time, I would have preferred it to go faster, but we now have a better legislative proposal with conviction. It is different from Mr Bosma's argument in the first term that this would be the first bill of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Ah, Mr. Bosma is coming in now. He's listed what didn't happen. Well, I can reassure Mr Bosma: the Ministry of BZK, Minister Ollongren and myself, has put forward a lot of legislative proposals over the last period, over 30. I mention, for example, the amendment of the Housing Act, various amendments to the Election Act, the Housing Act, the Passport Act, the BRP Act and the General Administrative Law Act, to name but a few.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u3	When I was a little late, it was about me right away. But I'm gonna get right to the point. I didn't say "the first bill." Certainly not, but it is true that very little comes from the Home Office. I note that the production of Home Affairs in the area of Home Affairs is therefore not overwhelming. That's the only point I've ever wanted to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you to Mr Bosma for this nuance. Legislation is essential to enable the cabinet ambition of safe digital business with the government. Legislation is not an end in itself, but a means of achieving an objective, and above all to create guarantees for citizens and businesses. In recent times, the legislative proposal has become increasingly exposed to citizen perspective and inclusion. A number of Members spoke about this. I want to make that move towards a secure digital government without putting businesses or citizens in the middle of it, using digital opportunities to involve more people instead of excluding people. It is precisely for this that digitalisation offers real opportunities and opportunities. Recently, in response to questions from the Chamber, more room has been created for innovation and developments in the market, by anchoring the principle of open admission. Private login providers may place them on the market for use in the public domain if they meet the required requirements and have been authorised by me. No other policy area is so strongly influenced by rapid developments such as digitalisation. As a government, we want to be agile and flexible, to be able to respond to these developments in time and to adjust where necessary, to achieve concrete results. Therefore, this is a framework law, including implementing legislation with functional, technical and operational provisions. Moreover, the law provides scope for innovation, further development in the coming years and further regulation. Developments in the market are also used wherever possible. This is done responsibly and regulatedly. Innovation and the use of new technology are not an end in itself, but they can help to enable the development and modernisation of the digital government. This bill lays the foundation of the digitally operating government. I will start by regulating what is most urgent, secure and accessible public services, and secure and reliable public and private means of logging in. More subjects will then be dealt with gradually and the role and responsibility of the public authorities will be further defined. In the last week, there was a lot to be done, quite rightly, I understand that also because of the current login for companies, eRecognization, and their compulsory use when making a tax return to the Tax Administration. In a moment, under the second heading, I will go into more detail, including the relationship this has with the Digital Government Act. Although this bill is limited to the digitally operating government, i.e. the public domain, its meaning extends to the whole of social traffic. This was also discussed in the first term of office. This can be done by subjecting private parties to strict requirements and by doing so, making them more secure in the commercial domain. The legislative proposal makes it clear that the public authorities are concerned about the importance of secure electronic services. The law binds governments to rules. This requires the necessary management of their business. This task is solid, but necessary. In practice, this is also widely recognised. We do this as a government together, in a way that is feasible and workable. Before I go on to answer the questions raised about the law, I would like to clarify the state-law position of Minister Ollongren and that of myself in the direction of Mr Bosma. On 1 November last year, a temporary provision was made for the period when Minister Ollongren was unable to carry out her duties as Minister for Foreign Affairs. This has been formalized in some royal decrees of that date, of which the Prime Minister sent a copy to your Chamber on 4 November last. These royal decisions are based on Articles 43 and 44 of the Constitution, which concern the appointment of ministers and the division of tasks between ministers. This has therefore been done entirely in accordance with the rules of the Constitution. In short, the situation is as follows: I am the Minister for Foreign Affairs and, in that capacity, I am in charge of the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. In connection with this, I have, of course, resigned as Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. For everything that the Secretary of State was responsible for, I am now responsible. I am therefore responsible and politically accountable at the moment, including Mr Bosma, as Minister for Foreign Affairs. By the way, the bill has been submitted by the Secretary of State, but that does not make the treatment more difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u5	That is what Mr Bosma has an opinion on, and he is going to make it sound like an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u6	And that Secretary of State is you, when you were Secretary of State. But isn't it true that Mrs. Ollongren is still Minister of the Interior? This has also been confirmed by the D66 Group, Mrs Ollongren's party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u7	That's correct. No, I have to rephrase. Mrs. Ollongren is still a minister. In those royal decrees, she was relieved of the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior, but she remained minister, albeit without portfolio. This construction was also used earlier, in the temporary withdrawal of Minister Plasterk as a result of illness. When Minister Ollongren is again able to carry out her duties as Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, she will be entrusted with the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs by royal decree. From that moment on, therefore, I am not, but I am still responsible for this law. Since Minister Ollongren is still a minister, she does not need to be sworn in again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u8	I hear something new now, namely that she is a minister without a wallet. I dare to doubt that. The Minister of Defence has been given the AIVD in its task package and as such is Minister of portfolio. That was also on Koninklijkhuis.nl. She has really been identified as Minister without portfolio. Am I to understand that Mrs Ollongren is currently officially Minister without portfolio? I think that is a very strange construction, because as such it is nowhere to be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u9	Yes, that's correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u10	First of all, I wish Mrs Ollongren a great deal of happiness. But I do find Mr Bosma's questions interesting. I have questions about that, too. If she's a minister without a wallet, isn't she part of the Council of Ministers? Then there's my second question. Should we, for whatever reason, dismiss this minister, Mrs Ollongren will automatically resign?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u11	She's a minister without a wallet. She is a minister and is therefore also a member of the Council of Ministers, but of course she is not present at the Council of Ministers because of her illness. It would have access to the Council of Ministers, but it is understandable that it is not present. I did not know that Mr Van Raak had the intention to send me away, and it is still a question of what the consequences are. Should Minister Ollongren resign without a portfolio? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u12	I find that interesting. This issue is indirectly linked to this debate. Could we have further information on what exactly is the position of Minister Ollongren? So she is a member of the Council of Ministers, but she is not present. Does she have a right to vote? Can she use that? If, for whatever reason, this Minister is sent away by the Chamber, not by me, but by the Chamber, why is Minister Ollongren not sent away? Then what's her position? Can it then come back as Minister of the Interior to the position it holds? That has nothing to do with this minister's person and has nothing to do with Minister Ollongren's person, whom I wish him well. But it is good to have clarity about this from a state point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u13	To the constitutional position, the first part of the question, I will come back later. With regard to the second part, it is very clear. At a time when Mrs Ollongren is once again able to take up the duties and responsibilities of the Home Affairs Minister and Kingdom Relations, she will be able to take up that position again. But that depends on her recovery and nothing but that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u14	Finalizing, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u15	Finally. Suppose we dismiss this minister, can Minister Ollongren take his position again, or does he actually resign? In fact, I would find the latter more purer from a state point of view, and at the first I have doubts, if that construction could be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mr. Chairman. Although the link to the Digital Government Act is far away, it doesn't matter. You ask a question and you are entitled to an answer. That answer, to that last question you asked, I'm going to give you in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u17	I think that is a good solution, because then we can proceed with it. Mr. Bosma again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u18	This is actually the essence of being a Member of Parliament, namely controlling the government. But the question is, who are we checking? So this is not some kind of by-thing, this is the essence of the function we have in Dutch democracy. So that's why we need to talk about it. Mr Van Raak asks a question. Are you prepared to explain this later? My proposal is this: would the Council of State be prepared to explain this, just to give us information on the construction we are now in? This is the first time I have heard, in general, that I am paying close attention to the fact that we now have a minister with no portfolio on Home Affairs. I haven't seen that anywhere yet. I think it is a strange construction that we have both a fully-fledged minister and a minister who apparently is Minister of the Interior, but without a portfolio. That raises all kinds of questions. My proposal would be: let the Council of State explain this to us, to tell us what the situation is. It is, of course, strange that in the previous debate the representative of D66, Mr Verhoeven, said here: no, Mrs Ollongren is just Minister of the Interior. My suspicion was confirmed by Mr Verhoeven. So there is a great deal of uncertainty even in the minister's party. You can't deal with state law like that, and we can't deal with the mother department like that, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u19	Thank you. I think the Minister has promised that he will return to that in the second term. Then we can go on for a very long time now, but in the second term he will give us an answer and I think that is the cold from the air. I am looking at Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u20	It is not a matter of cold air, but I would like to say a few words about it. I am now being addressed twice by Mr Bosma. I've been asked questions about it. I answered those questions last week. I was indeed under the assumption that it was true that Mrs Ollongren was a minister. As the Minister has explained, he has now taken over the role of Minister of the Interior because of a replacement. That too was just as I expected. I was not aware of the construction of the Minister without a portfolio as reported today, nor was Mr Bosma. I'm very open about that. We don't have to catch each other flies. That's right. So I didn't have the nuance right there. That she was Minister, yes, that she was without a wallet, no. I also think that the questions put by Mr Van Raak and Mr Bosma concerning the hypothetical situations that can occur are justified. I would like to say one thing about that. We are now pretending to be a very constitutional question. Mr Bosma has been working for two years against the Minister for the Interior, Mr Ollongren. He didn't leave that out. It's a bit of a mix-up now. I don't feel comfortable with that. That's what I want to say. So I'm happy with the questions about the state-of-the-art situation and the hypothetical issues, but I'm not going to participate in some kind of game to create, based on a disease-related situation, a situation where D66 is addressed and doesn't know it all. I answered the questions neatly. I support the questions about the constitutional situation, but I do not feel good about the game being played. That is what I have said and I shall leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u21	Thank you. I think we should leave it at that first. I see that members... We can go on about this for a very long and broad period of time, but we would also like to continue the debate on the specific subject. The Minister has indicated that he will reply. So I suggest we continue with the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u22	I have a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u23	A point of order? Okay, first of all, a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u24	I have a point of order, because I do not think what Mr Verhoeven is doing is right. I've just got some government questions about a construction. I have long wished Mrs Ollongren a great deal of happiness in this Chamber and outside this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u25	I've...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u26	Does Mr Verhoeven not want to talk through it? I simply have serious questions about our constitutional law, about the relations between the Chamber and the Cabinet, about what happens if we send a minister away and what exactly are the relations in the Council of Ministers. Those are questions I ask as a Member of Parliament and will ask. I will not let Mr Verhoeven talk me into playing political games. These are questions I have as a Member of Parliament and I am asking, despite Mr Verhoeven's opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u27	Clear. I'm just trying to wrap this up right now. I can imagine that all kinds of situations are now emerging in which one is going to react to the other. I would like to give Mr Bosma an opportunity to say a few words about it. Mr Verhoeven made his point. He's given us a description of his condition. I would like to suggest that we proceed with this. The Minister has already indicated that he will reply in the second term. That concludes the discussion for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u28	I really find it a disgrace what Mr Verhoeven is all about deliberating at the interrupting microphone. We in the House of Representatives control the government. That's our core business. Then it must be absolutely clear what the proportions are. Mr Verhoeven's speech of the last time showed that it is not even clear to Mrs Ollongren's party, because Mr Verhoeven simply claimed that Mrs Ollongren is a full minister, as I suspected. It doesn't seem that way, so there's a lot of uncertainty. That lack of clarity is the issue. It is at least a huge challenge for state law to clarify that. That has nothing to do with a hetze. That has just to do with being a Member of Parliament. I find it a disgrace that this type of text is being used by Mr Verhoeven. I really blame him for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u29	You've made your point. We will continue, otherwise we will have discussions between Members of Parliament. Mr Verhoeven, one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u30	Mr Van Raak knows very well that I supported him in all his questions. I didn't say anything about Mr Van Raak. I'm not taking anything away from his position as a Member of Parliament. He's making a theater of what I didn't say to him. I said something to Mr Bosma, and I will stick with that. I would like to give an example of this in a moment. Mr Van Raak is now pretending not to take his role as a Member of Parliament seriously with a lot of theatre. That hasn't been the case. I support the questions that Van Raak has asked, and he knows that well. So don't play games that I don't think we should figure this out. I have also acknowledged to Mr Bosma that I did not know exactly what was going on either. I'm very open about that. The same applies to Mr Bosma. All that's okay. Only I also say that we should not mix this with the fact that Mrs Ollongren's double passport was mentioned two years ago. There have already been many situations in which the PVV has tried to discredit Minister Ollongren. If that is mixed with constitutional matters, I find that impure and make a point of it. But I support the substantive questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u31	Can you give me an example?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u32	I have just given an example. As far as I am concerned, we shall now proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u33	You've made your point. I hope that we can continue with the debate. In any event, the Minister will come forward with a reply in the second period. Maybe a letter can also be made about it. I'll just give it to you so that it's also entrusted to the paper. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u34	Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the second block. That's about eRecognizing and funding. There has been a lot of talk and a lot to be done about this in recent weeks. That is right, because there is a great deal of uncertainty. I have already sent a letter on this subject, partly on behalf of my colleague from the Treasury. In general, the starting point is that citizens and businesses should not have to pay every time they log in to the government. Citizens and businesses may have to pay purchase costs and/or subscription costs for the login they use. For example, citizens will pay fees, as we discussed earlier in the Passport Act, for the purchase of the public vehicle that is included on the driving licence and on the identity card. I said earlier that these costs are expected to amount to a few euros. The purchase of an authorised private login for citizens may also lead to costs. How high these are is not yet known. I will monitor pricing in the demands I make on private citizens' funds. Companies can use a business resource, e.g. eRecognization. The cost of eRecognization is about €30 to €45 per year. Private means of login are also useful in the commercial domain, in addition to the use in the government. The system costs shall be borne jointly. The relevant implementing authorities shall be subject to a tax. Finally, the recognition and supervision costs for the admission of private means of logging will be passed on to the suppliers of these means. On the issue at the Tax Office, Mr Middendorp asked what I am going to do about the fact that entrepreneurs have to pay fines if they cannot make a declaration because they do not have eRecognize and whether tax payments remain free. In the letter I sent to you last week, together with my colleague Mr Vijlletter, we announced a postponement. In any case, this will prevent undue fines from being imposed for late filing. On the other hand, a safe public resource costs money. Making it but also providing it costs money. This also applies to a public vehicle as a passport or to the application for a building permit. If companies did not pay for logging in, the cost would be for the taxpayer. In the broad, pay must be made to the left or to the right. There is no free entry; so does Mr Middendorp. Apart from the group mentioned in the letter of 29 January, there are currently also costs involved in making a declaration. Although it does not go directly to the Tax Administration, costs are also incurred in drawing up annual accounts and audit reports. This month the Chamber will be informed more about this. I think that's important. This is not a problem we underestimate. The Secretary of State for Finance and myself will come back to that in the direction of the Chamber. Mr Middendorp also asked for a final solution. However, more time is needed for this. In the coming period, of course, intermediate solutions are being worked on and efforts are being made to avoid fines, but we will inform the Chamber about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u35	Surely that leads to the fundamental question that has already been discussed in the debate: do people have to pay extra to make a declaration? I hear what the Minister says in general terms. We discussed this extensively, including in the Passport Act. But in the case of eRecognization, there is no alternative. So the question is whether paying taxes remains free.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u36	I find the question of whether paying taxes is free, a bit of a special question. Most of the time, tax payments cost money. But can I interpret it in such a way that Mr Middendorp is wondering if you can make a tax return at no extra cost? The point is that you want to communicate safely with those new resources. These resources are cost-effective. It is not so much the case that Mr Middendorp made a very strong connection in the first period that eRecognization is only intended for tax returns. Businesses may only use it for tax returns, but just as with an identity card, it may be that you do not use the possibilities of such a facility and that you pay for it anyway. So the extent to which companies or citizens use those resources varies from one situation to another. If you only use that for one method, namely login to the Tax Office, and there is a subscription to it, then Mr Middendorp's reasoning would be correct in itself. But he also knows that it's not just about access to the Tax Office. It also gives access to other services. I think that's how we should approach it. Otherwise, we'll make it a caricature. I said "there's no free" because in the end those costs have to fall down somewhere. It is an illusion to think that we could take the steps we are going to take towards digitisation without any cost. There is a price tag for being able to do business with the government safely and efficiently. The question that arises is how to prevent it from getting completely out of hand and that companies are at the mercy of it. This is still separate from the specific target group referred to in the letter. There are a number of companies, at least they are covered by the label 'firms' which really depend on this, but where you could ask whether there would be no other method. That is what we are working on right now. We'll see what those alternatives are. That's what the Chamber is being informed about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u37	I think we agree on most of it, but I will come back to the case of eRecognization. We agree when it comes to entrepreneurs who want to use it to gain access to services. Fine. But if there's a group left that's just using it to log in to make a tax return, and that group is there, then the question ahead is: do you have to pay for it? How much or how little, you can talk about that, but for the VVD I said that very clearly last week.... it is quite clear that all those entrepreneurs and people pay taxes and therefore contribute to our public services, to trains, to education and so on. We think you should be able to make the declaration free of charge. I ask the Minister if he agrees with that principle, the principle that you can continue to make your declaration free of charge. That was also the case for December.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u38	Yeah, but things have changed. The Digital Government Act we are discussing today offers opportunities on the road of digitalisation, even when it comes to new services at higher levels of reliability. That is what it is all about, but that also has to do with legislation that must be complied with because of the guarantee and protection of the movement of data, in the sense that this is done in a good way. That leads to the need for new resources. This is a kind of inconsistency between the Digital Government Act, which is still before us in the House of Representatives, and the use of a means that is actually ahead of us. Mr Middendorp argues that the claim should be that tax payments should remain free, but that applies: it is just how you look at it. The resources you need to take other services from the government are not free. We had a debate on the electronic identity card. There will be provisions that will eventually be passed on in the fee. That's what the citizen pays for. It also pays for a passport which is becoming increasingly sophisticated and which will provide new facilities. I've been an entrepreneur myself. I've been dealing with reports, too. The factor cost you then have to make to make a declaration is still many times higher than that €30 to €40. And that still applies to normal companies. In this case, it is a defined group of 60,000 parties dealing with low traffic in the company. They are referred to as entrepreneurs, but they do not employ people, basic rights, pensions, etc. For that group, we're going to see if we can do it differently, but it's about proportionality. The question is whether the costs you have to incur for getting access are proportional to what you do with the government. We're gonna look into that, but I can't tell you exactly what's gonna come out of it right now. I would anticipate the facts, but we also see that you should be able to differentiate in this. That is also politically desirable. However, I cannot say that the principle remains that the tax return should remain free of charge, because even now people, even if it is not through eRecognization or otherwise, also create additional costs, via an accountant, an accountant or through registration with the Chamber of Commerce. That also has to do with the fact that you have to answer for what you've been earning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u39	Thank you. We are doing the interruptions in two, and I think Mr Middendorp has the second one now behind us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u40	Maybe it's useful that I finish this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u41	Perhaps that is a solution to Mr Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u42	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I think it is clear what I presented as a principle on behalf of the VVD. It is not the cost as such, but the cost of the person making the declaration. This is very important for the VVD, because at the moment the declaration costs at the digital government are zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u43	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u44	That is why we are putting forward this principle, regardless of what the Minister has described as other costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u45	Thank you, at least you made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u46	My answer to Mr Middendorp's question was on the business domain, which I mentioned earlier, which is very diverse in the background, from a pitters to pension law - for example, and large companies. No one is talking about the large companies that have to report and who should not be working with that tool and pay for it. I understand very well that this is about the group which, in a sense, is vulnerable and which has to make a corresponding amount of costs for the declaration. Citizens may also have to make costs, but at the moment they can log in to the government for free. The question is whether this will continue to be the case in the future. Of course, you don't know that because of the resources that are going to be used. Let's say there's an I.D. coming up that you could do something with in the future. Then you buy one of those cards from the city. That's what you pay for. Then you have access to certain services that may be attached to them. That's all future music, but then you couldn't argue that it's free anymore. So I can't promise that for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u47	Clear. I suggest the Minister finish this block now. Then maybe we'll come to a clearer story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u48	Both Mr Van der Molen and Mr Middendorp have asked about the tariff structure of the assets, including eRecognization. Mr van der Molen wants to know how high-cost companies can be protected. Without this law, can we intervene already on the prices of business and organizational resources? Mr Middendorp wonders how we can ensure that the rates for the logging resources remain market-oriented. He also wondered why the tariff structure was not involved in the recognition of business resources, as was the case with citizens' resources. Small companies that use business resources for tax returns only see the costs as high. I just indicated that. The benefits are still too little experienced. If you relate it one-on-one to the Tax Administration, the costs are high, but companies can safely log in to other governments and companies, except with the Tax Administration. Over time, more and more governments and commercial bodies will be able to log in. Then the value of such a product becomes higher and applications become more extensive. The legislative proposal does not provide for rules on the rate for business and organisational resources. To make this possible, a legislative change would be necessary. In the business domain, the starting point is that market forces regulate tariffs. However, I am talking to the suppliers of companies about the possibilities of reducing and controlling the price. For citizens' money, I can do so on the basis of Article 9 of the Digital Government Act. That article gives me the opportunity to prevent people from being asked for too high a purchase price, while at the same time ensuring quality and continuing to be able to develop and innovate. In this way, I can prevent it from becoming a price-fighter market, in which suppliers offer resources at too low prices and to do so, in terms of quality. In the end, it doesn't help anyone. As a system responsible, we are, of course, responsible for ensuring that the system continues to work. Mr van der Molen has asked me to say that eRecognization will continue. I can't agree to that, because eRecognization is an agreement system with multiple private providers. The odds of them all stopping, by the way, are very small. It is an important form of service for them. But I can't force them to offer their resources. Under the Digital Government Act, I do get the opportunity to conduct more control over private business resources. Think of the recognition of providers: a very important point. That was also discussed in the Chamber. I would also like to mention the monitoring of safety and availability requirements. In the end, that is at the heart of what this law regulates in the final implementing regulation, but also directly in articles of the law, i.e. ensuring that the system continues to operate. I can also impose on a party seeking to stop the provision of services, which could happen for market reasons, the obligation to continue the activities in the area of access to electronic services for companies and legal persons for a period to be determined by me. All this is intended to ensure continuity and reliable access to such electronic services. Because that's what it's all about in the end. At the moment that parties participate, they also know that this is the consequence. So it's not like you just decide when you get out. Mr Van der Molen asked about the availability and need of the use of eRecognization. He wonders whether simple e.g. pension or basic law - for example, can't just report with the two factor authentication of DigiD and whether the old portal of the Tax Administration can't be kept in the air. He also wondered whether there was an understanding of the length of the waiting lists with e-recognition suppliers. It is important to distinguish between civil resources and business and organisational resources. DigiD is a person bound only for natural persons. It shows who someone is. In a one-man case, it is by definition clear that the natural person is also entitled to act on behalf of that one-man case. Therefore DigiD can be used for this purpose. Business means demonstrate to whom a person is and whether someone is authorised to act on behalf of a legal person, such as an e.g. A legal person may have several representatives. Therefore, simple bvs cannot report DigiD. On the question of whether the old portal of the Tax Administration can still be used, I cannot make any commitments as Minister of State. My colleague from the Finance Committee indicates that the old portal for the taxation of wages and corporate tax returns is no longer open and can no longer be opened up. Declaration is only possible for companies with up to 10 people staff through the new portal. In addition, there is the possibility to use a tax service provider or commercial software to enter via that route. This is already happening in a lot of companies, but that is not usually the tribal law bv's. Due to the nature of the data shared, the portal is only accessible with a means of login with the security level "material'. That's important. We would almost forget that, but that is also the reason: the safety levels are not static and continue to develop. It is important to be able to guarantee that. The old login tool of the Tax Administration, of user names combined with a password, no longer meets the requirements of the GDPR and can therefore no longer be used. That's counter-empty. It's just against the law and it can't be anymore. As regards the waiting times for eRecognization suppliers, which Mr Van der Molen asked for, I informed your Chamber in my letter from last week that the suppliers have used additional capacity. They have done so to bring the waiting times back to a few days. Mr Van Raak and Mr Verhoeven discussed the agreements made by the Tax Administration and the UWV on the use of eRecognization. I believe that Mr Verhoeven was talking about something of a covenant that would have been concluded. In 2017, when there was no legislation on this subject, the Tax Administration, UWV, Chamber of Commerce, RDW, RVO and the Municipality of The Hague signed an eRecognisation Memorandum of Understanding, with the aim of putting together policies to ask the market to develop authentication tools. This is therefore independent of the legal basis that is regulated under the Wdo for the use of eRecognization, and is also independent of the change to eRecognization by UWV and the Tax Administration. The Tax Administration and the UWV have decided that it is necessary for certain services to log in with a safer means at a higher level of reliability. That is because of the GDPR, as I have just indicated. The UWV has even received a penalty payment from the Dutch Data Protection Authority, because it was possible to log in to the UWV's employers' portal with old credentials at a low level, where companies report illness and recovery. It is therefore very important and urgent that Tax and UWV can use eRecognization to ensure that safe way of logging in. In response to Mr Van der Molen, who asked for a possible reservation for business and organizational resources, I would like to stress here that the introduction of the Digital Government Act will involve a connection scheme based on Article 29 (3) of the law, which he himself referred to. As a result, the acceptance obligation for the authorised funds will only start once the implementing organisations are ready and the funds are available with a sufficient level of coverage. That makes sense, because otherwise it wouldn't work. A provision has therefore been made for this in the law. Mr. Chairman. I'm almost at the end of this block. I would like to emphasise, following Mr Verhoeven's observation, that mandatory log-in with eRecognization is separate from this law. The Wdo does not force companies to do digital business and does not force them to log in with eRecognization. The law regulates the requirements to be met by public and private means of logging, and states that public organisations determine the level of reliability required for their services and the means of logging them in. That "defining" is not entirely free, because of course one has to deal with legislation that one has to comply with; I mentioned the GDPR. This is without prejudice to the fact that we are trying to solve separately with the Tax Administration the problems that we have just discussed with Mr Middendorp and Mr Van der Molen, and which have actually been introduced by all Members in the first term. There's a connection in that sense that it's both about eRecognization, but there's no direct connection to this law. Then I come to the issue of security and privacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u49	But for the time being, I can see that there is an interruption by Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u50	I would like to touch on the issue of the Tax Administration, which also played a major role in the first period last week. With many business organisations, the telephone is still burning, because 60,000 organisations, including many entrepreneurs, have been ruined by this one-sided move by the Tax Administration. I hear the Minister say that the old system can no longer be brought back and that all paths are actually closed. In any case, with the CDA, that makes the amazement about the Tax Administration's step extra great. It's a classic saying you shouldn't throw away your old shoes before you get new ones. So the IRS didn't do that here. There are 60,000 organisations which are apparently unaware in advance of the fact that they are suddenly closed down from the service. So I come with the question I asked last week. The letter sent by the Minister together with the Secretary of State states that solutions will be devised in a number of steps on the way to the summer. I'll tell the minister it can't take that long. It should be clear how we deal with these 60,000 organisations within a week or four. I would very much like a response from the Minister. We can adopt this law, but the problems for those entrepreneurs are still unresolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u51	That's right. The problem of these organisations, which I also described in the letter, must be resolved in a proper way. In the run-up to a final solution, temporary solutions may need to be developed. I have already indicated that no fines will be imposed. I reported that on behalf of the Secretary of State for Finance. We are working together to see how we can do this properly, with a view to those who have to make tax returns. This is above all the responsibility of finance. It is mainly about the small organisations mentioned in the letter, and there are quite a few of them. I agree with Mr Van der Molen that I count on it and assume that it will not last until the summer before a solution is reached. There will rather be a view on a solution. That could mean that I am going to think aloud now and that is always dangerous intermediate solutions or temporary solutions must be devised in the run-up to final solutions. I agree with Mr Van der Molen that this should not have to wait until the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u52	I agree with the Minister. There are 60,000 small organisations involved. In my contribution I indicated that it goes from the Royal House through the Lower House to many international companies. I think I'll get back to that in my second term. As a Chamber, we must tackle this problem and not just build up a good new law. As a follow-up to this, I will come back to the following. Some of our colleagues are on the Finance Committee. They have asked a lot of questions about how it actually went. What is the base and are there pieces to see in it? To date, the cabinet has not made these documents available to the Chamber. I would like to ask the Minister whether he can confirm that our colleagues have clarity about this before we vote on this law. They will have to make that solution. The Minister said that we will soon have a list of organisations that need to be linked to eRecognization. I'm just gonna say it at home. If we haven't solved the problems of eRecognization now, why take that step at all, even if those organisations are ready? Does the Minister agree with the CDA that other organisations should only join the Tax Administration and the UWV when all problems related to eRecognization have been resolved?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u53	The point is, there's some kind of legal clamp. UWV and Tax Administration can no longer allow login in the old way. That is simply against the laws and regulations and they have to abide by them. At the same time, there is a way to do this, but there is a problem with that because it will cost the organisations you have just spoken about. That's one. Two. Mr Van der Molen is now making a connection between voting on this law and the issue at the Tax Office. I've indicated before that the only connection between them is eRecognization. For the rest, this problem is separate from this framework law. I can pass on Mr Van der Molen's request to Mr Van der Molen, because the questions have been put to him. I would be careful not to link that to the Digital Government Framework Act. This should have been transposed into final legislation much earlier. We now have difficulties in meeting all these deadlines, and that is important for how we proceed now. We must avoid creating new problems. I would not want this process to end because of the problems at the Tax Office. I have already indicated that it seems reasonable to me that we should not wait until the summer to inform the Chamber about this. The Chamber will be informed more quickly, including by the Secretary of State for Finance, about temporary measures in the run-up to final measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u54	Thank you. I see that there are no more interruptions at this point. Then I think the Minister can continue with the block of funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u55	First, security and privacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u56	Yeah, security. You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u57	Questions have been asked about that security and privacy protection, and rightly so. Security and privacy are sometimes two opposites on one axis, but they are sometimes parallel concepts that are equally important. This brings together elements such as legal protection of citizens, of businesses, a reliable government. I would almost say that this is a sine qua non for this law, and that is one of the pillars on which this law is based. This bill regulates that electronic services by municipalities, implementing agencies such as UWV, SVB and the Tax Administration, but also care, can and must use secure and reliable logging resources. This is very important when it comes, for example, to access to patient data, or to apply for a permit, benefit or supplement. So it will also be the case that this framework law will make it possible for us to do things that are not possible at the moment. That is also the purpose of this law. Progress is being further developed step by step, bearing in mind Mr Elias, to mention him once more. I'm gonna say something about privacy first. After that, I'm gonna come up with information security. In order to protect privacy, the processing of personal data is strictly regulated by public and private parties. The processing of data is only permitted insofar as it is strictly necessary to log in safely and to recover any problem that may arise if that occurs. Any other use of personal data is explicitly prohibited. This is in order to avoid scenarios laid down by a number of spokesmen in the first term, whereby commercial parties could use those data for commercial purposes and assign some kind of added value to them, making that data a source of a earning model. That's absolutely forbidden. In this system, private parties also have no access to the login behaviour of citizens. Thus, companies cannot earn from trading the data obtained. They will have to base their earning model on the income from logging in themselves. There's no such thing as free. I mean, in the end, there's got to be a earning model to do this. If the government does it, it also costs money. I cannot stress enough: identity is not a commodity. This is also covered by the law. Requirements shall be laid down for the actual technical device, which shall no longer allow the interconnection of data by lots. A number of members have asked questions about the protection of privacy and security. Ms Özütok asked why privacy rules are regulated in the AMvB, and not in the law itself, given its importance. In the law itself, I regulate the basis for processing personal data and lay down the framework that is further defined by the detailed rules. I understand Mrs Özütok's question, but I do so because this is a framework law and because I want to be able to respond flexibly to the technological developments that are about to take place. All this on the basis of those important principles that I have just mentioned, of security and privacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u58	Is the Minister almost at the end of this block, because there are some members who want to interrupt? I actually want to try to do the interruptions at the end of the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u59	I'm not at the end of the block yet, Mr. Chairman. This was a big topic and a lot of questions have been asked about it. I want to answer all of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u60	Will Mr Verhoeven and Mrs Özütok intervene now, or can we continue with the reply?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u61	I understand that with the cubes and the interruptions at the end, but I didn't ask any questions at the Tax Office block, for example. And now, at the end of this block, should I just ask two more questions, while my center of gravity is on this block? Then may I ask several questions at the end of this block? I'm just looking for a good shape.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u62	I'll give you that we're stuck in a certain time frame. We just make that possible; no problem at all. Can we do it for Mrs Özütok?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u63	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u64	Thank you. Then the Minister will continue with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u65	Privacy protection is, as far as I am concerned, an ongoing focus and should not be regulated by the law once in a while. I understand Mrs Özütok's question. Also in the written movement between the Chamber and the Cabinet, this has been explicitly changed, so I knew this in advance. The underlying idea of Mrs Özütok's question was how this can be guaranteed. Those AMvBs are therefore being hung from the Chamber. The AMvBs in which this is arranged are presented. So the Chamber can look at that completely. This could change over time in the implementation process. The principles remain universal and infinitely sustainable, only the execution and the conditions that you attach to them can be changed by the evolving technique. Ms Özütok also asked whether the bill provided sufficient guarantees for the protection of personal data and/or commercial use of personal data. Mr Van Raak asked if it is not unsafe when communicating sensitive information from Dutch citizens via foreign companies such as Google and Facebook and whether data will not be used for commercial interests. Mr Van der Molen joined in and wondered what possibilities as a minister could I have to refuse new providers in the interests of national security or other risks related to privacy or cybersecurity or to deprive them of the accreditation they have previously received. As I said in my introduction, personal data is not a commodity. The bill and the underlying regulations contain more than sufficient safeguards for this privacy protection, because commercial use is simply prohibited. The legislative proposal itself contains foundations for the processing of personal data, including the civil service number by governments and private parties. Processing should only take place if necessary for the implementation and provision of secure access to electronic services by the public authorities. It's called target binding. Parties must comply with this and therefore should not use personal data for other purposes. In addition, operational measures, such as separate storage of data, should be taken to prevent the misuse of data by companies. If the parties do not comply, they can be removed from the system on the basis of Article 9. In addition, I have powers to intervene immediately and to take action on the basis of Article 18 of the Wdo, which would mean that people would simply be shut down from service or logging. The requirements I have just discussed also apply in full to foreign suppliers. Of course, eIDAS and GDPR also make demands on these resources. Those are not minor requirements, and they also represent a significant threshold. In addition, I also have the opportunity to have companies that want to offer funds carry out a so-called Bibob test to see if companies are not related to crime and undermining. Moreover, for serious reasons, I can deprive parties of accreditation. They will no longer be able to offer funds. I can do this, for example, in the case of threats to cyber security or national security. Mr Van der Molen asked for the AMvBs under Article 9, which lays down requirements for credentials for citizens, to align as much as possible with existing European rules and principles, on the basis of the aforementioned eIDAS and GDPR, and to be cautious with too many additional technical requirements. He asked what demands are really inevitable. The eIDAS requirements are about privacy and security, and they need to be applied. There is no negotiation and no discussion. The starting point is not to impose additional requirements. If I do, then it is explain, then there must be a good reason for that. The starting point is therefore: no additional requirements. For example, citizens should be able to count on their means to work between different organisations. That is important, because if everyone is going to make different demands, including internationally, then you will unintentionally create thresholds that will not achieve the goal of better and more efficient services. In addition, there are privacy regulations, such as the separate storage of certain data. It is necessary to provide additional safeguards and prevent data from being used for other purposes. This is what members Özütok and Van Raak asked for. For example, a ban on the commercial use or sale of data is regulated. This is complementary to the eIDAS and is intended to ensure that private parties cannot abuse data. This is in line with the legitimate points made by the Court on this matter earlier. Further details are needed in order to make requirements, so that co-operation can be carried out in the event of incidents. This is also important for citizens to be able to protect them and help them where necessary. Mrs Özütok also asks why there can be no decentralised storage of personal data. That's a misconception. Solutions where data is stored on a decentralised basis are not excluded under the law. So that doesn't forbid the law in advance. Mrs Özütok also asks how it is arranged that citizens have control over their own data. That is an important point that we have also discussed before. I indicated my view on the direction of data in the letter of 11 July last. In doing so, I have identified three tracks through which the citizen himself can direct data. First of all, this can be done through the possibility of correction and inspection, with the emphasis placed on basic data, including through MyGovernment. Secondly, on the basis of one-off data provision, the mandatory use of basic registration can continue to do so. So you don't have to repeat your data every time. Thirdly, this can be done by sharing digitally between organisations, which makes it possible for citizens to share some of the information available to the government digitally with private service providers, such as housing corporations. Then safety, Mr. Chairman. That is an important subject. A secure digital government must be resilient and resilient to the threats that are coming to us. This starts with good information security and the proper organisation of escalating possibilities in case of an attack, a leak or otherwise. We have, of course, seen a number of examples of this in the past period. The Wdo therefore also imposes requirements on the access of parties to the digital government, and that is also monitored. No matter how much you close that up and how much you strive for 100% water density, you can never guarantee that nothing ever happens, that nothing ever gets in. This is also evident from what has happened over the past few years. It is important to recognise this quickly and then to take the necessary measures: to isolate the problem, to isolate the intruder or the disturbance, to protect yourself and thereby to limit the damage. Therefore, the Wdo provides a toolbox to identify abuse and to take corrective and emergency measures against it. This contributes to the resilience of the digital government. This recovery capacity is essential to protect and help citizens who are in difficulty. In addition, in order to ensure that public authorities can exchange information and meet the same safety requirements, I intend to oblige co-governments and implementing organisations to apply standards. Several political groups have asked questions about this. Mr Verhoeven asked how the reporting obligation would work if something went wrong. He pointed out that this took 42 days at Citrix. Just separate from the Wdo, data leaks and/or incidents are subject to the rules of the GDPR and the Security Network and Information Systems Act, for example. That is a law that falls under the responsibility of the Minister of Justice and Security. These rules apply to all administrative bodies and companies. In the case of Citrix, the government, like many companies, as a customer depends on the way in which the supplier communicates about problems and the time in which a solution is made available. In this case, the government itself has inventoried where and whether Citrix is used and subsequently, within the government domain, both in the broad and narrow sense, taken measures to exclude the risks arising, for example by deciding, after consulting the NCSC, to stop Citrix, to suspend its use and to stop logging in via Citrix. Mr Verhoeven has also asked how the blocking is done, for example in the case of abuse or in the case of a stolen device. What exactly is needed depends, of course, on what is going on. Blocking can be done at both system and organizational level, for example when an organisation has been hacked. The organisation will then no longer have access to digital government systems. If a login is stolen, the validity of the product may be revoked. The moment they try to log in with that stolen drug, that won't work anymore. It prevents people whose drugs have been stolen from suffering further damage. Measures are taken as targeted as possible, so that people are not unduly affected. Several political groups have spoken about open source, but above all Mr Verhoeven, who spoke very often about open source. That's a nice English word. Mr Elias would have intervened now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u66	That's a challenge. At that time it was also quite normal that we spoke behind the microphone in Dutch and did not use English terms. There is no doubt a Dutch term for this. I can already hear it: open standards. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u67	Mr Verhoeven asks whether I agree that all software should be open source in order to allow security control. He also states that the pass-to-leg-out principle, comply or explain, seems to leave ample opportunity to circumvent open standards. He asks what working with standards will look like: will it be mandatory or will there be a broad exception policy? Are the safety standards really mandatory for every organisation? Mr Middendorp asked specifically about the field of Education and Mr Bosma asked what my perseverance is on this point. Ms Özütok asked whether the municipalities have control over the application of standards. Let me begin by stressing that the functioning of processes must be transparent, so that you can also control what is happening. Transparency can also be achieved with closed software; both have advantages and disadvantages. Open source software is protected by openness and closed source software by protection. It is particularly important to make good agreements on availability and continuity. With regard to open source, I note that a letter is being prepared by me, identifying the possibilities of open source. I expect to be able to offer this letter to your Chamber in March. For standards, the government policy is that each government organisation applies in principle the open standards of the so-called "pass-to-lay' list of the Forum Standardisation. However, you meet or not. You're gonna have to motivate it. There is room not to apply these standards. This bill, the Wdo, gives more control over that government-wide application of open standards. Article 3 gives me the possibility of requiring the application of open standards. So it really goes on. This is done at AMvB. This only happens when mandatory application of a standard is necessary and proportionate. The result of such an AMvB is that government organisations should no longer deviate from that standard. That consideration will be made by default. This is done in conjunction with other departments, all implementation organisations and co-governments, including the education sector and the municipalities. For example, the concept of the AMvB on secure connections for websites and applications has recently been consulted. Anyone could have responded to that. The reactions were positive. Following the entry into force of the Wdo, the information security standard HTTPS, that lock on the website, will soon be required by public authorities. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say this in the direction of Mr Verhoeven, who is now running away from us, it is true that applying the possibilities of open source has a relationship with the Market and Government Act. That is, of course, a law that takes place in another domain. There must be enough room for manoeuvre here to make all this possible. Mr Verhoeven wants two things, and I can see that there is some tension between them. So I am also counting on Mr Verhoeven to look into all this, but I believe that the President also plays a role in this, in a different capacity. Mr. Chairman. That was the end of the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u68	Thank you. I think Mr Van Raak was the first to ask for an interruption. Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u69	Suppose Google is going to offer such a means of identification, the Minister says: "The data of Dutch citizens are safe, because the minister has set all kinds of rules." How is the minister going to check that Google doesn't? Google is a commercial company that has as its primary earning model to make money with data.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u70	There are different degrees in the resources I have to do something about that. It starts, of course, with the introduction of rules on accreditation. The company must therefore not only say, but also demonstrate that all this takes place within the framework of the law. In this case, the question is whether this can be done. In the end, the company wants to be accredited. The government's gonna have to find something like that. So it's not like you just fill in a few ticks and then get in on it. I'm not going to mention a company in particular, but it's certainly in general that you have to be very careful what you're going to do when you know that companies have the trading of data as a earning model. After all, the integrity of the model, of the system, of the system is the most important thing. In addition, I have all kinds of means to intervene acutely in the event of a proven violation of the rules in force. I just explained that. That means you don't have one lock, but different locks on the door. Of course, this starts with accreditation. It's very important. In accreditation, the government should really take a very serious look at questions like "what kind of party is this?', "What is the core business of that party?" "What have they done in the past?" and 'does that relate to the objective of this system?'
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u71	Google uses this kind of information to build profiles. It's going and it's going and it's going and it's How's the secretary gonna check that out? Is he going to see if Google has all the appointments properly on paper? That is undoubtedly the case. The company is based in America. It complies with American law. How is the Minister going to check that Google complies with all the rules the Dutch minister makes? How's that going in practice? Is a gentleman or a teacher going to look into those records? How's that gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u72	Two comments. One. There's a company that I don't go into specifically. Let me approach this as a system manager, regardless of which company it is. Two. So this is the subject of further elaboration. We'll pass the framework law here. By the way, all this is still being put forward by AMvB. So you have to describe very precisely how you're going to do that. Mr Van Raak now cites an example in which everyone has certain experiences and ideas. The question is whether that is very obvious. I wouldn't know that, but the most important thing is that parties who want to accredit it really have to prove that they comply with the law. This must be done both at the front and during the process. That must be monitored and there must also be means of intervention. I feel responsible for that, too. That is basically what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u73	I am quite inclined to rely to a large extent on a good framework through this law and to assume that private parties will offer this login in a controlled way. But I think there have also been examples of a number of large parties that are doing everything they can to collect more and more data about people in all kinds of different ways, where this could be one of them. I also think that it has been very clearly demonstrated that the government has not always fought against this in a good way. I therefore have a strong feeling that we should give the Chamber and the Minister a stronger role in this area in the event of the possibility of this happening. Does the Minister understand that there is a need in the Chamber to get some grip on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u74	Sure. We're gonna have to be very sharp about this. The current Digital Government Act contains a system in which we want to make agreements on this and in which we want to define the conditions that companies have to meet. That's what the law says, and it's worked out in AMvBs. The things where it has gone wrong in the past have often been in a different context, but exactly those examples make that you do not need one lock here, but several locks on the door. You absolutely have to have the opportunity to intervene and say: this cannot be done; this does not fit in with the objective of the law. To this end, the law offers more than sufficient opportunities. What I also like about this debate is that subjects such as privacy, security and legal protection create additional obligations, especially in the case of such a system for which the government is responsible. The government is not the only party to act in it, but it is responsible for that system. The examples that Mr Verhoeven may have in mind are often also to some extent to be found in the fact that this may not have been done entirely enough in the traffic between government and companies and sometimes in different proportions. In this sense, the accreditation, as well as the involvement of the Chamber in this legislative process and the possibility of doing so, provides a sufficient legal basis in the law to look into it. This is also the case with the Chamber and to follow it carefully and to intervene if necessary. The legal basis for this is quite sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u75	I agree. I also see that a great deal has been done in this bill. I have also said that my group is positive about this law and that we understand that a number of things will be further clarified later. I understand. They are also rules that are not just dealt with by one law. But we are also dealing with a large group of people, who do not have the confidence that the government can do well in the area of data control and ICT systems. Secondly, we also have a very strong feeling that a number of large companies are becoming increasingly powerful over us people, because they are increasingly able to collect data. Yesterday there was another beautiful television programme that went over that for an hour, with the writer Harari who explained the risks. We have to recognize them. That is why my group has put forward a number of proposals, which I think the Minister will come up with later, in order to tighten up the control of the Chamber in this area. I really hope the Minister understands that it's not because we think it's a bad law, but that I want to build in more control. The point is that we also respond a little bit to that feeling in society, by acting as a chamber controlling, next to the law that lies there. I really think that's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u76	I think we should distinguish between the controlling role of the Chamber in this, and the law on the other hand, and my powers within this law. What is important is that the Chamber should not only be involved in the drafting of this bill, so that it is dealt with as we do now, but should also be involved in the further elaboration. I fully agree with Mr Verhoeven on that. Because it is a very fundamental point. That is also the answer to Mrs Özütok's question, why it is not in the law. No, that's in the AMvB's, so as far as I'm concerned, those AMvB's just have to go past the Chamber. In doing so, this controlling task has been secured, including from the role of the Chamber. In substance, the law provides for a number of ways of monitoring and managing the system, you might say. It's actually a bit of guarding and securing the system, so you might think, of the Digital Government Act. There are therefore sufficient opportunities for me as an administrative body to intervene in this. This, together with the report, means that the movement between the Chamber and the Cabinet is pure. This important subject is being put forward, and there are sufficient safeguards for me to intervene. And with that accreditation, I'm just going to say it anyway, because these examples keep popping up, you have to ask yourself, when parties who have the earning model of trading personal data, whether they would be the most appropriate parties to do so. We're not naive, Mr Verhoeven. We're not gonna take any chances. This is also evident from parties that are now active: there is indeed a earning model to make of the service, without using that data. Because the latter is forbidden. That is quite clear; I have just said that a number of times. If that were to happen, it would actually be the axe at the root of trust. I understand Mr Verhoeven's point: you must also be able to trust that the system is safe. I can never rule out an attack on a system; neither has Mr Verhoeven asked for it. But if it would be corrupt from the inside, so I shall put it, because companies have double intentions with that, then you have to check that very clearly on the front. I think there really are enough locks in this law to make that possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u77	I have given Mr Verhoeven an opportunity to ask additional questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u78	Thank you. I'm asking one last question about this. It is not a question of the Minister and his ministry not having the intention and awareness to act properly with this law. It is about the fact that for decades the companies in question have managed to come up with new ways of getting that data back together again and again. And so they're not going to say: we have a proposal here to offer a login, and frankly we also have an interest in using that data. They're not gonna say that. They're going to do it in a way where they say "we've developed a wonderful drug," where two years later it turns out that they've somehow figured out how to pull in a very large part of that data cake. I sound a bit like a suspicious MP now, but in this area I am also suspicious. In this case, therefore, I really want an above-average grip, both from Parliament and from the Minister, on the step we are going to take here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u79	I am not going to try to remove the mistrust that Mr Verhoeven has, because I would almost say that it is healthy in this matter to have that. That's what I'm in, because we've got something to lose. But that mistrust can then also be assessed in the law by reference to a number of articles, both with regard to the implementation again, there will still be legislation that you will have to comply with exactly, as well as with regard to what you have to keep when you are admitted and what the principles are. I note that Mr Verhoeven now casts his impatience, unrestrained feelings and mistrust into a very special mould in relation to the relationship between the Chamber and the Cabinet. After all, the cabinet is the one who does this. As an administrative body, I also have opportunities in the law to do things. Mr Verhoeven is the one who can control that from a state point of view. In addition, we have said: because this is such an important principle, it is put forward via an AMvB. The Court therefore still has all its say on this particular issue. But we must be careful not to confuse those roles, which are governed by state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u80	It is good that the Minister really says clearly that it is forbidden to use personal data from citizens collected through those logging systems for commercial purposes. Citizen data is not intended for commercial purposes. I couldn't agree more. There are, of course, a number of things in the law that ensure that these prohibitions can be properly controlled and enforced. On the other hand, I think it is also necessary to inform the field and also the public about this phenomenon. I am so keen on this because there are also a lot of unknownness and concerns in the field about how this law is going to work in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u81	Yes, I totally agree with Mrs Özütok. Mr Van der Molen also had a question about this. I think you both asked that question in the first term: how are we going to do that? What we are going to do is to ensure that information campaigns also provide information on this subject in a good way, very targeted. For I agree with Mr Verhoeven that the confidence he mentioned is simply very fragile, also because it is often difficult to understand exactly how these systems work. That's a bit of the same discussion as we're having about algorithms, their application, what transparency is and how to explain how these systems are put together. The same goes for this, of course. So that's what campaigns are about. They are therefore aimed at citizens and businesses, but they are also being set up in conjunction with the public authorities using these resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u82	Thank you. I think that's gonna put us on the verge of entry into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u83	We're getting to the block of citizens and businesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u84	Oh, yeah. Close enough. Let's do that block first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u85	Yes. Digital business with the government is a right for citizens and businesses. This right is also enshrined in the General Administrative Law Act, which is currently in your Chamber with that change. However, the choice of the paper route and the telephone route remains in place. I often say leave no man behind. Mrs Özütok always reminds me that there are groups that are unable to make use of this. So it is a right, but not a duty. The core of the Wdo is that if the right to digital business is exercised, this must be done safely, reliably and user-friendly. To this end, there is the possibility to opt for public means of log-in, DigiD at the levels "essential' and "high' or "private', i.e. available through the market. The right to secure log-in is opposed to the obligation for public authorities to accept authorised log-ins when providing electronic services to citizens and businesses. For this purpose, the means of logging in must comply with strict admission requirements based on eIDAS and GDPR legislation. Several political groups have asked questions about the use of the digital road and of the means of logging, the admission and accreditation requirements to be imposed on the private parties and the extent to which the requirements for civil and business resources are the same. Both Mr Van Raak and Mrs Özütok asked whether I can guarantee that governments are not only communicating via digital means. Mr Van Raak wondered whether citizens wanted the freedom of choice of a means of logging in communication with the government. Many people find it easy to arrange their business digitally and have the choice between the various means of logging in. We do not want to enter into it either. So the Digital Government Act doesn't require you to do business along the digital road. The law ensures that when things are handled digitally, this can be reliable and safe. For people who don't want or can't digitally, there are other ways to settle matters with the government; for example, think of the desks or contact by telephone or letter. I note, however, that special legislation can therefore be decided! In certain cases, the obligation to do digital business. A number of laws have this possibility, such as the Environmental Law, the Plant Protection Act, the Services Act and a number of tax laws. Mr Van Raak and Mr Middendorp asked whether DigiD could also be used outside the government. As I indicated in my introduction, that is not possible at the moment. The Digital Government Act also prohibits this on the basis of Article 8. I am going to investigate whether it is possible in the future to use that public resource DigiD outside the government, based on the principle that the citizen determines which means he or she is using, but it must meet certain conditions, also in order to guarantee safety. So I think it's important to do this carefully, and I want to investigate this as well. In my view, this also fits perfectly into the development of resources that are applicable on several fronts, and prevents us from having the discussion at the beginning of this debate, namely that you have a means that you can only use for one thing in practice, because then it will of course become a problem. Mr Van der Molen asked me how I look at a public resource that both citizens and businesses can use. He also wonders why the law distinguishes between civil resources on the one hand and business and organisational resources on the other, and how I look at the integration of these resources for citizens and businesses on the other. As I mentioned earlier, the Wdo only has a public resource for the civilian domain. The business domain does not provide a public resource, but provides the market with the need for resources. The current limited use of public funds stems from the socio-political desire that the role of public authorities should be limited and that the market should also have the space. Well, Mr Verhoeven is gone, but that's the Market and Government Act, so there's also a political debate about that basic choice: what do you think, who should play what role in that? And as I mentioned earlier, we are working gradually, and I will see what role the government can play in the future. That is not static, this is a framework law, the thinking does not stop, and that can also change in the future. I am investigating how the role of the government can best be fulfilled and whether a public resource for companies is appropriate, and whether the wider use of the logged-in resources I have recognised can be facilitated. Of course, it will also show how all this is going to happen in the coming period. In the opinion on that role of the government, a shift seems to be noticeable, in this Chamber, that you notice... but also beyond, as the Cyber Security Council has pointed out for example. Safe logging in is increasingly seen as a useful function, and the government is expected to play a greater role in the whole of social traffic. This immediately affects the point made by Mr Verhoeven about trust: who should you address if such a system, such a system, no longer works? I also see this as a support for the steps I intend to take. Furthermore, it is true that the law now makes a distinction between civil resources and business resources. This is due to the current practice, in which civil resources and business resources were already present. I want to integrate the requirements for resources as much as possible. But this cannot be done directly, because of the differences in the use of the resources available now. For example, companies cannot log in themselves, which requires checking whether the person logging in is allowed to act on behalf of the company. Part of this requires different rules than a citizen's tool. I will link the requirements of the funds for citizens and businesses in the implementation scheme as much as possible and, if possible, in the second tranche of the Digital Government Act, I will make sure that distinction is made because I also understand that you would prefer not to allow this to be included in the law between the domains. Mr Van der Molen has also asked what period I think I can start the process of accreditation. The background to his question is, I think, that in other European countries, which have been allowing private providers and working with accreditation for some time, parties are already active in this market. He wants to know how I guarantee that national providers will enjoy equal preparation time for accreditation, so as not to lag behind potential foreign parties. And he wants to know whether it is true that providers who offer identification means in other Member States automatically get access in the Netherlands. Well, first of all, I can report that the publication of the requirements and the admission process will start at the same time for all parties; so a level playing field. I am now preparing for that process, so that accreditation can begin as soon as possible after the entry into force of the law. Yes, everything is waiting for everything, of course, and expected to be, I hope, especially if there is an early treatment in the Second and First Chambers in the fourth quarter of this year. Suppliers of logging devices may already prepare themselves for the requirements prior to this. These requirements are given in concept in internet consultation this spring. I am going to set as many equal admission requirements as possible for public and private funds that are based in the GDPR and in the eIDAS Regulation. In order to be allowed in the Netherlands, all providers must comply with this requirement. Foreign resources do not automatically gain access. An identifier used in other EU Member States cannot simply be used in the Netherlands. Only funds from other Member States at the levels substantial and high, which have been notified according to the eIDAS Regulation system, should be accepted in the Netherlands. So there's a substantive review on it. Ms Özütok and Mr Van der Molen both asked about the so-called IRMA app, which is increasingly used by government, municipality and semi-government care. They have asked whether I can indicate that such an app will not be hindered by the introduction of the accreditation system introduced by this law. As I indicated last month in the answer to questions about the use of IRMA in healthcare, IRMA can be authorised as other means. The Wdo doesn't stand in the way of that. However, as indicated above, the Wdo establishes rules for logging in that are in line with European rules and GDPR. Of course, these requirements must be met. As a result, citizens know that adequate security is provided in digital access to their data. So IRMA, like other means, will also have to meet these requirements in order to be admitted as a Dutch medium. Public organisations that now allow the use of IRMA should therefore take this into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u86	I see Mr Van der Molen first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u87	Thank you to the Minister for the answers. I welcome the answers he has given so far to very specific questions about this law. That is good to get an idea of how the law will work in practice. Let me come back to the answer given by the Minister to the link between private and public resources. That is where the Minister had a very neat text, and I would like to try out whether the Minister shares with a number of parties in this Chamber that we should really go on the route to make a public resource available to companies and organisations. I hear that between the lines, but I do want it to be very explicit, because we see in the case of eRecognization at the Tax Administration that we are not quite right on the side of the government, that we are just leaning on a private provider, but that the entrepreneur is concerned that he has no choice and that we are only on one route. So I would like to ask the Minister very clearly: does he also see a final picture of the fact that this distinction between citizen and business organisation will be dropped and that we can also offer a public means to entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u88	Yes. I have noted a number of issues which may lead to a number of differences between citizens and businesses. On the basis of the principle of ease of use, which is a little diametrically opposed to what Mr Van Raak has introduced, I would say: leave the choice to citizens and businesses of which means is used, if only those conditions are met. Because the idea that a single remedy should be one size fits all.... would be the best, is also vulnerable. The competition also ensures that if one system fails or if one means no longer works, there are other means. So driven from the citizen's perspective, the human-central perspective, or the entrepreneur-central perspective, that is the route we are going on, without me being able to say exactly at what point that convergence is taking place and whether it will eventually be so in all respects. But you do indeed want a means that is applicable as much as possible on the basis of the principles I mentioned earlier. So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u89	The previous answer is also a bit of a response to a possible free alternative to eRecognization, but I share with the Minister that there is still some work to be done in the context of innovation. Linked to that observation, the Minister also talks about the possibility of using public funds and private resources interchangeably and that the final picture is not stable. There is also a lot of innovation underneath that. For the VVD it has always been very important to give space to this legal process. So we are also glad, as I said in my first contribution, that we are moving from a public-plus model to a multi-fund market and that this law is shaping that. On the question of recognition, why is there the possibility, as a government, of intervening in these tariffs, and not in the case of business resources, when it comes to the recognition of citizens' resources?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u90	I mentioned earlier that it is generally true that the path we are taking is a path that stimulates innovation and reduces costs. This, in my view, also ultimately leads to better and safe services, and that is what we all want. The question about it...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u91	... intervene in the tariffs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u92	I just said something about that. In the case of citizens' money, I can indeed send them on rates and I cannot do so directly in the case of company funds. This simply has to do with the system of responsibility, with the implementing organisations and with the role of the public authorities in relation to these citizens' resources. In addition, and especially when it comes to what we are doing now, there is a direct link. In the end, it is my expectation, especially from a commercial point of view, that if you are to be attractive as a service provider in this system, you will have to find a good balance between rates and your earning ability. So at the moment that's maximized, you're praising yourself out of the market. That's an economic law. Nor do I think that Mr Middendorp's approach is that he believes that the government should intervene more firmly in general terms, at least...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u93	Well, he'll make that clear himself now, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u94	Of course, I agree with that, but I can see the difference. However, it is possible to intervene in the case of rates in the case of civil funds and not in the case of company funds. I shall therefore also come forward with proposals for this in the second term. But it's about that level playing field. I also hear a little bit here that we have that beautiful public resource that we now have... We in the Chamber have decided to work on this, to build it, for example, to give people the opportunity to make free tax returns. Is it the Minister's intention to use such a public resource in the private sector as well? Because I do see some problems, for example when it comes to those private providers but also in terms of liability, if DigiD can be used anywhere and in all kinds of transactions in the private market, i.e. in non-public log-in services. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u95	That is not something we are actually expecting at the moment. That's not the bill. But I can't rule that out either. Because organisations can decide for themselves that they recognise it and because it has to meet the same requirements, it can ultimately be applicable. If you're gonna rent a car somewhere right now, you're gonna use a passport to identify who you are. In this sense, there is already this way of interaction. By reasoning from the perspective of the citizen and the entrepreneur, you leave the choice for which means is used in part by the citizen and the entrepreneur. So it is not forbidden to rent a car... In fact, you often need a passport or an ID. This is requested from private parties, because it is an integrity system. One can really assume that someone is who he says he is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u96	We did it in half. If it's very short, I'll give you a very short space, Mr. Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u97	It is very short, because I fully agree with the example of the car, which I think I used in the first period. But I do want to be very specific, and I will come back to it in the second term: where are we going to compete with a public resource with private resources in the private market?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u98	Clear. I don't think that asked for an answer right away. Mr Verhoeven?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u99	Following on from this, I do understand the concerns of the VVD about the competitive conditions between the different providers. My approach is more that I think that people should also have the opportunity to do private transactions with a means that is not forced upon them from a private party. So they must also have an alternative. As far as I am concerned, that may also be IRMA in a private transaction. So my question is: are we going to go to the situation that both private and public or non-profit login systems are actually able to use all three forms in both public and private transactions? Does this law offer the opportunity to do so? I have understood the law something else, namely that private can be in public, but public or non-profit not yet in private.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u100	That's right. I can't do that right now. But you can also look far ahead, which Mr Van der Molen just tried to do, to which I also replied. The beauty of this law is that it's a framework law. There are a number of AMvB's coming underneath that make it very concretely clear what can and cannot be done at the moment. There will be several instalments under this law. This is also a new phenomenon in itself. Thinking doesn't stop. Of course, there are always interactions with the Market and Government Act, so what you can do is not unlimited. It is not a concrete scenario at the moment, but I cannot rule it out either. Whether you can finally appreciate this scenario or not depends a little on where your politics stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u101	I have tabled an amendment on the demands we make to private parties for the political domain. I have said enough about this and the Minister has responded to it, so I will keep my mouth shut about it. I have the following question to the Minister. Does he want to investigate the possibility of public or non-private or non-profit logging-in systems in private transactions between citizens and companies? Will he take a look at that? Because now we are moving in the direction that it is mainly private providers who can actually cover all domains while the other way around is not yet the case. I find that worrying, because then people cannot opt for a non-private means of authenticating or identifying themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u102	If I can understand Mr Verhoeven's question in such a way that he, apart from this legal procedure, is not provided for in the legislative proposal, and if I am prepared to investigate this for the future, for subsequent instalments, then my answer is 'yes'. I just think we shouldn't stop thinking here, we should see what we can and what we can't do. That is not in the proposal now before us, so if Mr Verhoeven wants to suspend the debate or so... But I can't hear him say that. I see it as an extra request in response to the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u103	I had a motion prepared. Is the Minister prepared to write a letter stating how he's going to do it? Then I do not have to submit that motion, but I do have some kind of commitment that we will look at the non-profit and public credentials in private transactions. I think that is an important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u104	In any case, we are going to communicate with the Chamber on a regular basis, in the form of a suspension procedure, of course, but also through a look at the next tranche. I therefore think it is most logical to include this point by Mr Verhoeven in the preparation for the next tranche. It is not something we have figured out within two weeks, but Mr Verhoeven understands that. But I'm gonna check that out, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u105	Citizens' access to government is a basic right, but it must not become dependent on private parties. That does not say Ronald van Raak, says the Council of State and a lot of civil society organisations. I think the majority of the Chamber agrees. It's a framework law. We've been working on it for a while. Is the Minister prepared to make possible what the Council of State says and what I believe a majority of this Chamber wants, namely a public means of a public task, publicly funded?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u106	What's in store now is the law. I have just indicated in an interruption debate with Van der Molen, Verhoeven and Middendorp that this is a framework law, in which all kinds of developments are possible, more broadly. I see Mr Van Raak's remark as a bit of a restriction, because it is about setting the substantive conditions under which you can do business with the government. You do that in the public domain with public resources. But that doesn't rule out working in other areas by other means. Mr Van Raak's input in the first term was a little bit that you should not give citizens a choice at all, that you just have to make one means that you can apply for everything. I have to nest on this question. Maybe I can come back to it in second term. I think that's the best thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u107	I'll see if Mr Van Raak will settle for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u108	It is not a question of choosing a free market. It is a basic right which the government must offer. I cannot, of course, agree with a law in which this basic right is not secured. But I do understand the Minister's dilemma, because I believe that there was once a bill on the Ministry's tower, in which it was settled, but there was then a lobby from the Chamber, from the coalition parties. That's when market players had to come. There had to be a lot of market players. And then there had to be a lot more market players. The same minister is standing here and now he is hearing from all kinds of parties: yes, but it is bad, these market parties; can we not arrange it publicly? I understand the Minister's going crazy, but let's get back to the base. It's a basic right. Is this basic right laid down in this law? If not, how can the Minister ask me to agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u109	The right to do business with the government with these new resources is guaranteed by this law. We have a number of qualitative conditions attached to this. Then we are talking about security and privacy protection; we have just talked about this. That right is guaranteed. That is the essence of this law. That's different from duty, but we've talked about that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u110	Then I think we'll get to the next block. I'm not gonna call it right now. The minister's probably gonna tell me which block that is, because I'm running the chance of calling the wrong block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u111	No, I think I'm okay now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u112	I can't do this anymore!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u113	Operation and implementation, the fifth of the six cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u114	Yeah, I had it here, too, so it would've worked out. The odds are fifty-fifty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u115	The bill has a broad scope. The law lays down obligations for semi-public authorities, public authorities and providers of public and private funds used in the public domain. The same external supervisor will be designated for the supervision of the proper functioning of public and private funds. That is a bit along the lines of the debate I just had with Mr Verhoeven. The supervision between administrations is organised inter-administratively. Many parties were involved in the preparation of the Digital Government Act, such as public authorities, the healthcare sector, other departments, market players and the Personal Data Authority. The operation and feasibility were and continue to be a matter of constant concern. I am therefore pleased that I have listened to this in the first term too, which means that the legislative proposal can count on a lot of support and that it is looking forward to its rapid implementation. The importance of safe logging in is widely recognised as well as the responsibility of the government in this regard. The system shall be introduced in stages as from the entry into force of the Wedo-Tunisia Agreement, which is scheduled to enter into force on 1 July. Mr Middendorp explicitly asked for this. As mentioned above, public service providers shall be given a reasonable period of time to establish the required level of reliability for their services on the basis of Article 6 and to join the scheme on the basis of Article 29 (3). This period depends on the availability of resources and their level of coverage. Account will also be taken of ongoing ICT pathways and investment moments among public service providers. That is the case. That doesn't mean there's one big big scare where everybody goes all of a sudden. Following the opinion of the Personal Data Authority, the legislative proposal included the possibility of temporarily allowing a lower level of reliability. So that's temporary. In the coming period, the logging resources at the higher levels of reliability will gradually become more widely available. The aim is to have DigiD Substance and High available in the course of 2020. Private logging funds are expected to be able to apply for recognition under the law by the end of 2020. Mr Van der Molen asked about the way in which citizens and businesses would be informed. I just said something about that. With regard to implementation, some comments have been made on compliance and its monitoring. Mr Bosma put it this way: who is going to put the fist on the table? At least I don't do that with one fist, but with the other I still can. The parties to the system obviously have their own responsibility to keep their systems safe. Think of the temporary updates of systems and carrying out checks on the full operation. I am ultimately responsible for the system, for digital access to public services. I also control the security of access and intervene if that security is at stake. To this end, I have the following powers: to withdraw approvals for means of identification, see Articles 9 and 14, and to suspend access to the system. The latter can be done on the basis of Article 18. Inter-administrative supervision shall be carried out on affiliated semi-public parties and public authorities. This is the subject of supervision, as is now regulated by the Municipal and Provincial Laws. The responsibility for compliance therefore lies primarily with the local authorities themselves. The Agency shall monitor the private providers of means of login. For the sake of completeness, I note that the Dutch Data Protection Authority supervises the processing of personal data by public and private parties. Then the last block and then an assessment of the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u116	Let me first look at Mr Middendorp, because I think he still has an interruption in relation to the penultimate block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u117	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answer to the question of how this is going to come into effect in a very concrete way. In the first place, I mentioned the example of the Citrix attacks. A number of trade ministers then look at what is happening. Could that have an effect on the implementation? Will BZK then look at standards under this law? How does that system work? I like to get a little more coloring on how that works, because there are a lot of different degrees that BZK can and can't interfere with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u118	That's a good question. In essence, the responsibility of Justice and Security and the NCSC for the security of the entire system from the cyber security side remains intact. The system responsibility for the Digital Government Act lies with BZK, as much as it is with everything related to state services, the government in the narrow sense, and the provision of information to other local authorities. That's how it's handled with the Citrix case. In fact, the system does not need to be changed in order to carry out these functions, because the principles remain the same. We are talking about government logging in, but there are a lot of government organisations, including government agencies, that work with systems that are potentially vulnerable, because nothing is infallible, for attacks from outside. The system on the basis of which the Citrix issue has been dealt with will continue to exist and this will be incorporated into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u119	About the same point, the implementation. I'm experiencing a certain rush at the Minister's office to take steps. I share that very strongly. I agree with the Minister's comment on the picture in other ministries, namely that what is happening here in this framework law may be relevant to a ministry. Of course, that goes very often. So I wouldn't want to stop this law because there are other things going on. Then the question of implementation and haste. What's the Minister's image? When are the first AMvBs going out? When are we going to work on the recognition of new resources?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u120	As we speak. We're already prepping. We are eager to come up with AMvBs and give concrete details to the Wdo. That is a framework, but the entry into force is ultimately the really relevant point. That will not happen for all organisations at the same time. I have just explained this, but full force ahead when this law is passed not only here but also across the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u121	Thank you. Then there's the rest. The other side is the First Chamber. That is a bit disrespectful, but they also call the House of Representatives the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u122	Next is Mrs Özütok's question on internal and external ICT expertise. This is parallel to this subject, but this is an important issue in all issues of digitalisation. How do we, as a government, ensure that we have sufficient qualified staff to manage the fairly large operations, regardless of whether they are in the system or in the implementation organisations? That is also one of the recommendations of the Elias Committee. She said: make sure you are sufficiently equipped in that respect. That's kind of tricky in a market that's tight. At the same time, you don't want to become dependent on market players. There have been very bad examples of this in the past, where market players had a kind of business model to continue that dependency. That is very bad, because you get and do not deliver the good products and it costs a lot of money. So the government is in the process of sharing the knowledge and skills that exist within the government in a good way. You can see that a lot of implementing organisations have the same challenges to share that knowledge horizontally. Logius, BZK's department responsible for the implementation of funds, is also adopting more and more ICT experts on a permanent basis. Is it all enough and am I very happy with how it's all arranged? No. There are more wishes, but you will always have to work with the market in a certain way. The open source story we've been talking about before is also important to prevent you from getting stuck in systems you can't get out of and for which you have to pay. Mr Bosma asked what had been done with the opinions of the Advisory Committee on Regulatory Pressure Review, the Council of State and the ICT Examination Office. The Council of State called for a greater grip for the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the eID system. In response, more powers have been introduced for the Minister, including in Article 5 (5) which provides a broad basis for regulation for the digital government. The Advisory Committee on Regulatory Pressure Review, ATR, requested a simplification of the levels of reliability and greater standardisation of eRecognisation. There was a simplification in the implementation, i.e. in the design and design of private business resources. The BIT requested simplification of the eID programme. The strategy has been revised accordingly. In particular, the focus was on procurement of private funds. We have just had that debate. As is well known, the tender has now been replaced by the system of open admission, because, unlike recent history, a large number of suitable and well-functioning resources are now available on the European market. Mr Middendorp asked if I could add the issue of inclusion to the planned legislative review. I would like to do that, because inclusion is a subject that is widely shared. I have already mentioned this with Mrs Özütok and I therefore support the proposal to include it in the evaluation. Mr President, I will conclude. This law is an important step on a road that is still a long way from being finished. But it is important to make this roll-out of the digital government really possible. In the following tranches of the law, subjects other than those we have discussed today will be given a prominent role, for example the further design of information security, but also subjects such as the direction of data, with a balance to be struck between the citizen's control of the use of his own data and the provision of protection and safeguards. There's a lot of tension in that. Infinite control of data requires quite a bit of the different systems. But the development of the digital government is much wider than that. Its use is a shared responsibility and task, and citizens will need to be able to use the resources. Governments will then have to organise their services accordingly. It doesn't go by itself and it won't go without bumps. I am convinced that this is a continuous process, in which what you laid down in the law yesterday will again be the subject of discussion tomorrow for a further legislative amendment. Mentally, you have to be in it like that. This has everything to do with the state of the art and the possibilities and, of course, with the rhythms of investment in certain systems. In doing so, it remains of fundamental importance that we pay attention to the fact that the digital government is not perceived by everyone as a matter of course or as a convenience. We have had this debate before. We have to take account of the fact that there are still groups who find it all scary and who find it difficult. We must help them to do that. The approach is therefore aimed at making the move towards a secure digital government, without putting businesses or citizens in a bad position. Think of the case eRecognization Tax Office. This is about using the digital possibilities to involve more people instead of excluding them. In any case, I welcome the contribution of the Chamber until now, and I hope that the further examination in the First Chamber will take place in the same way, so that, as Mr Middendorp said, we can start as soon as possible. Then there are a number of amendments. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 17, according to my information, from Mr Middendorp. That amendment sees the possibility of extending the suspension procedures to AMVBs. I think that is a very good development. The Wdo already contains a suspension procedure for several AMvBs; this is therefore a procedure whereby the Court is involved in its elaboration at an early stage in order to adopt the implementing rules. I also understand, given the nature of the discussion we had, that the Chamber wants to extend the veil, in particular to rules on the establishment, provision, maintenance, operation and security of the generic digital infrastructure. Paragraph 5, on which the amendment is based, provides the basis for this. I have to say, I really think of this as a valuable addition. It also keeps the involvement of the Chamber, from its own responsibility, fully up to date. In this way, it reflects the broad wish that exists in the Chamber, I think, on this point. I can therefore leave the opinion on this amendment to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u123	The amendment in part No. 17 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u124	Then there are three amendments tabled by Mr Verhoeven, all of which are concerned with the introduction of the veil. Let me start with the amendment to item No. 23. This concerns an amendment to Article 9 of the Wdo: the introduction of a veil for any recognition of private funds. The granting of recognition of a private means is a decision based on Article 1:3 of the General Administrative Law Act. That is a written decision of an administrative body in an individual case. The Secretary of State is the competent authority here. That's me. The administrative body which takes the decision is, therefore, also the administrative body within the meaning of the AWB. Through this amendment, Mr Verhoeven proposes that the House of Representatives be given a role in this. The Lower House is not an administrative body. To submit any recognition to your Chamber so that you can discuss it with me does not fit in with the conditions laid down in the Constitution. In fact, it is customary for your Chamber to set the framework for implementation in the form of legal regulations. The competent authority, in this case the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, applies the rules in an individual case. The implementation frameworks are in line with Mr Middendorp's amendment in the Wdo and in the AMvB, which is also being put forward once again. There is therefore every opportunity to discuss with your Chamber the conditions for granting recognition. I can assure Mr Verhoeven that I would like to inform the Chamber on this, but that is different from what is proposed here in the amendment. I must advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u125	The amendment in part No. 23 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u126	In view of the fact that the Minister says that he is prepared to inform the Chamber and that he is prepared to inform the House of the amendment to item No. I shall withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u127	The Verhoeven amendment (Doc. 23) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u128	I do not think that it is a problem to inform about the recognition granted. I would now like to turn to the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. 22 and 24, including Mr Verhoeven. Those provide for an amendment to Article 25 of the Digital Government Act: extension of the veil of the AMvBs under Article 9 (2) and 16, with the provision that if at least 30 MPs so wish, the subject should be regulated by law. What Mr Verhoeven is proposing here by amendment is very unusual, I can say. I think it's unnecessary, too. It disrupts the law and will lead to great delay. Let me explain. These AMvBs contain the elaboration of frameworks from the law; that is the result of the fact that this is a framework law. The details of the devil's effect are in the detail here. They're in the AMvB's. The subjects in the AMvBs do not, by their nature, lend themselves to formal legislation, as I have just mentioned in the debate with Mrs Özütok. This is legislation that needs to be amended regularly in order to respond to the new developments. Those two amendments, 22 and 24, can lead to something that is regulated in an AMvB being lifted to the level of a law. That is the intention of these amendments, but this would lead to delays. I cannot imagine that Mr Verhoeven really wants that. We now want a law that, I would almost say, is agile, but that is not a good Dutch word. I mean a law that's maneuverable. However, I share Mr Verhoeven's concern about how the Chamber is involved. I'll go with that. However, I wonder whether these amendments provide for this. A veil without a stick behind the door in the form of a rule of law, as Mr Middendorp set out in his amendment, fully meets the wishes of a substantive debate. For this reason, I must advise against both amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u129	Amendments Nos 22 and 24 are not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u130	These two amendments I am maintaining, as I say right away. I've given it a lot of thought. The Minister is afraid of delay because the possibility exists that 30 members of the Chamber decide to raise what is in the AMvB to law. It doesn't have to be. We're creating the opportunity to do that. On the basis of the content of the amendments, the Court may also decide not to do so. In this case, I would like to have the somewhat heavier instrument that you do not need a majority because of the concerns I have expressed. I've made the following assessment. If the Chamber sees that the AMvBs that create the frameworks for this huge step are good, then we are not doing it. But if part of the Chamber is concerned about that, I think it should be possible. In this case, I think that is justified. I am therefore maintaining these two amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u131	Clear. Nevertheless, Amendments Nos 22 and 24 are not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u132	I'd like to excercise it anyway. I'd almost say it looks like a surgeon using the wrong tools. Mr Verhoeven wants to help the patient, but uses the wrong tool. We want a quick law; a law that is quickly adaptable. The AMvBs are being hung. Materially, all this is shared with the Chamber. The concern about what exactly is in it is therefore met. We choose an AMvB for practical reasons and that does not affect its legal force. You can adjust it faster that way. If I were to say that these AMvBs are not being put forward, Mr Verhoeven would have a point, but that is not the case. Mr Middendorp's amendment also makes this possible. Those AMvBs are coming. Mr Verhoeven is tabling these amendments precisely in order to escalate with 30 members and lift the AMvB to the level of law. I think that's risky because of my responsibility. I want this law to come into force as soon as possible. I must also have the opportunity to amend the law once it has entered into force. Again, that happens through the House of Representatives. This proposal is therefore extremely undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u133	The appreciation is clear, Mr Verhoeven. We can move on now, but we can do so in the second term. Two more appreciations have to be given, namely Amendments Nos 21 and 25.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u134	21 and 25?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u135	And 20.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u136	Yeah, and 20. My paperwork isn't quite in order yet. The amendment in part No. 20 by Mr Middendorp and Mr Verhoeven. An online identity facility shall be added to Article 5 of the Wdo allowing natural persons to have access to data relating to themselves. A number of other issues are also dealt with, such as their provision and their compulsory use. Here's what I can say. On the basis of the amendment and its explanatory statement, I can give my opinion to the Chamber. However, I would like to make a few comments about the statements made by Mr Middendorp and Mr Verhoeven in the first place. So I just want to make sure that the text of the amendment and its explanatory statement is what I am being asked to judge. Then I can leave the motion judgment room. I see Mr. Middendorp nodding, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u137	I also see Mr Middendorp nodding. That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u138	That makes the most sense, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u139	It's clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u140	For Mr Middendorp spoke about the flow of data within the government via the citizen. I do not read that in the amendment or in the explanatory statement. As I indicated in the cabinet response to the Middendorp/Verhoeven initiative paper, which is the basis for this, this is unworkable, even in the future. The citizen cannot refuse, as an example, that the Tax Office requests data from UVW or municipality. Mr Verhoeven, supported by Mr Middendorp, indicated that the amendment also offers handles in order to enable public funds to be used in future in the private domain. I do not read that in any way in the amendment before us. So if we can stick to the text of the amendment and the explanatory statement, then the judgment is Chamber. If the spoken text is then an amendment to the amendment, then I have to reconsider my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u141	Mr Middendorp, this will initially be judged Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u142	We keep it that way, because as the Minister described it, so can we read it. He has to say something about Mr Verhoeven's last comment. I have just said something about this myself in the first term of the cabinet. We disagree on that in any case. That is absolutely not to be read in this amendment. On the first point: all the exceptions for detection that exist now all remain. In my view, there is no difference of opinion on the explanatory statement to the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u143	Thank you. I think that's clear. So 20 was Judgment Room. Let's move to 21.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u144	In the amendment to item No. Mr Middendorp and Mr Van der Molen asked for the evaluation to be carried out earlier. These five years are in themselves a kind of standard clause that is often applied when it comes to evaluation. I have indicated earlier that inclusion should also be given a place in it. I think that's a very good addition. The only drawback of an earlier evaluation might be that you don't have a full-bodied Wdo yet. But the question is when do you have it, because it is legislation that is being phased in. With regard to the fact that not all the implementing arrangements may have entered into force, I have no objection to any reduction of that deadline to three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u145	21: Judgement Room. Let's go to 25.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u146	And then there is the amendment to item No. 25. This is about supervision and is also about Mr Middendorp and Mr Van der Molen. It calls for equal supervision of public and private resources and for different tasks not to be assigned to a public organisation. The first concerns compliance with Articles 9, 11 and 13 of the Wdo. I intend to appoint an external supervisor, which will be one and the same supervisor. I am talking to the Telecom Agency about this. To this end, Article 17 already offers a hook. So I actually see this amendment as supporting the line I am putting forward so that I can leave it to the House to judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u147	25: Judgement Room. And with that I suspend the sitting for a few moments, after which we can continue with the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u148	We'll proceed to the second term. Mr Van Raak is the first on the roll. Mr. Van Raak, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u149	I repeat: access for citizens to government is a basic right which must not, however, become dependent on private parties. That doesn't say Ronald van Raak of the SP, but says the Council of State, the minister's main advisor. I was wondering if this is true. Is it true that there was originally, when the bill was being drafted, a proposal that met this requirement? The communication between citizens and the government, a public task, would also be provided with a public means. Is it true that there was then a lobby in the Ministry from a political point of view to include private funds? The ministry then said: If the Chamber wants to do so, then we also do private money. Is it true that the minister is here now and hears from a majority of the House of Representatives that it should be a public means? Is this analysis correct? It would at least explain why there is such a bad bill. I'm afraid I'm not going to agree to this. There's gonna be private providers soon. We don't know who they are, we don't know what the rules are, and we don't know what supervision is. I'm just saying: Google, Facebook or Citrix can of course make such a tool. Then the Minister says: yes, but then we are going to lay down all kinds of rules and supervise all kinds of things. But we don't know how that works, because all that still has to be arranged. Suppose it's settled, how can the minister check that Google, Facebook or Citrix are going to comply? These are companies based in America. Their earning model is making money with the profiles they make of the information they get from citizens. That's our citizens' money. How's the secretary gonna check that out? He doesn't know that at all, does he? Now the Minister says: Mr Van Raak can be reassured, because we are all going to settle that in other rules, in general measures of governance. I have just heard an interesting debate between Mr Middendorp and the Minister. Then the Minister said: with these general measures of governance we are already a long way off; we are already a whole end with that. He even suggested they're pretty much done already. I was wondering if it was not possible for us, as the House of Representatives, to have an insight into these general measures of governance and to have an insight into the effects of this law, so that we know what we are saying yes to? I think that request is widely accepted here in the Chamber. Can the Minister give these draft AMvBs to the Chamber or send them to the Chamber, preferably before the vote, so that the Chamber knows what she says yes to? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u150	Thank you. Mr Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u151	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the time I've been given. I look forward to speaking this out. We had a good debate. For those people and those entrepreneurs who pay taxes to fund our public services, I would like to make one more comment. The Minister said in the first term that he could not say that citizens should also be able to make free digital returns in the future. That's important to the VVD. With regard to the citizens who report it, I would like to ask the Minister to come back to that or at least to indicate what he meant by it. The VVD has made it very clear that we believe that entrepreneurs who pay taxes should not be charged extra. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the use of logging devices, such as eRecognization, should be used for the digital presentation of tax returns;]] [[considers that it is, in principle, incorrect to pay for making tax returns;]] [[believes that making tax returns is and should remain free of charge for everyone, citizens and entrepreneurs, as is the case at present;]] [[calls on the Government to present a proposal as soon as possible so that entrepreneurs can return their digital tax returns free of charge;]] [[Calls on the Government also to examine how to deal with costs already incurred by entrepreneurs during the period when there was no free digital alternative;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber before 1 April,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Middendorp, Mr Van der Graaf and Mr Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34972-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u152	Mr. Chairman. The following is attached to this. We have had a debate on how all these corporate and civic resources are going to relate to each other and how it is monitored. That was a good debate, but on the question of the tariffing of providers of logging devices, I shall still table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas business identification tools such as eRecognizing are used by economic operators to gain access to public electronic services;]] [[Whereas the use of e-recognition currently costs entrepreneurs tens of euros per year and the Minister has no powers to intervene in tariffs, as will soon be the case with private citizens identification means;]] [[calls on the Government to provide an insight into the costs and changes in the rates of company logging resources, to monitor to what extent they are priced on the market and to include their pricing in the recognition, and to report periodically to the Court,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Middendorp and Mr Van der Molen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34972-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u153	Mr. Chairman. We have had a wide-ranging debate on the use of public resources in the private sphere. In view of the time available, I shall table the next motion for a resolution immediately. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas DigiD, eNIK and eRijboek are intended as public means of identification for citizens to come into digital contact with government organisations or other organisations having the right to use the BSN;]] [[Whereas contacts between citizens, public institutions and other organisations are becoming less and less physical and increasingly digital;]] [[Whereas in the physical world a passport is also used in specific situations in the private sector, for example when opening a bank account;]] [[Whereas increasing the level of security of log-in in the MSN domain involves EUR 1 billion;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether and, if so, how public identification resources could be used in additional, specific situations outside government and now designated sectors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Middendorp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34972-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u154	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u155	Thank you. Mrs Özütok has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering my questions and for explaining the safeguards in this law when it comes to protecting citizens' privacy. My group believes that this is very important. Nevertheless, we still have concerns about central storage and the risks of abuse. We therefore look forward to the AMvBs and the detailed rules on this. Mr. Chairman. Then two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Digital Government Act provides scope for private parties to provide authentication services;]] [[Whereas this proposal allows for a central system of registration and processing of personal data, allowing private parties to use all personal data and transactions;]] [[Whereas the role of the public authorities is to protect citizens' digital rights, including the right to privacy and control over their own data;]] [[Whereas there is also a well-established decentralised alternative that respects and protects these digital rights of citizens, and with which several municipalities have shared positive experience;]] [[Whereas the framework through which private parties are admitted is further developed;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with these municipalities in the development of this framework with a view to taking into account their experiences and insights into decentralised authentication services within municipalities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Digital Government Act provides scope for private parties to provide authentication services;]] [[Whereas the starting point is that public and private identification software should be safe;]] [[Whereas it is important to establish objectively that identification software is safe and therefore open source software is desirable;]] [[Whereas open source software also has economic advantages, as parties can use each other's work;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure in the relevant AMvB that application software in which personal data are used are as open source as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34972-30]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34972-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u157	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u158	Thank you. I call Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u159	Thank you, Mr President. I agree with the Minister and other colleagues that we are making a law here that should make it easier to communicate digitally with the government, but that a very large group in the Netherlands is not digitally skilled. We need to be careful with each other that this group doesn't fall out of it. In my first term, I have already congratulated the Minister for taking an important step towards improving that support. I think we should go through with that. Mr. Chairman. I will return with a motion to the problems with the Tax Office and the UWV regarding eRecognization. I also agree with an amendment to the Minister's reply that a legal amendment must be made to allow the Minister to look at and intervene on the pricing of civil and organisational resources, if necessary. This is now regulated in the law for civic resources, but not yet for business and organisational resources. The Minister indicated that there was a need for a legislative change. I'd like to help him with that. In the first term, I also asked the Minister if he could promise that, after the problems with the Tax Administration and the UWV, we would not commit other organisations to join eRecognization until these problems have been resolved. I would like to receive a clear answer from the Minister in the second term. Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Digital Government Act makes a difference between means of identification for citizens on the one hand and for businesses and organisations on the other;]] [[Whereas the user's perspective should guide the establishment of the system of identifiers;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how a public means can be provided as a means of business and organisation, or how elD development can be used to create an integrated civil and business and organisational means, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before 1 December 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the implementation of the Digital Government Act requires general administrative measures;]] [[Whereas the draft law should enter into force soon;]] [[calls on the Government to launch relevant pilots as soon as possible with a view to introducing recognition of private means of identification,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government has not submitted to the Chamber that eRecognization is mandatory for making tax returns;]] [[noting that far-reaching preparations have been made to this end;]] [[noting that there are very many problems with the introduction of eRecognization, such as waiting times, such as 60,000 legal persons unable to apply and more;]] [[Calls on the Government to present a plan to the Chamber within four weeks to resolve the bottlenecks for all groups that are not able to use eRecognize and in which small simple e.g., such as pension-e.g. and basic law-e.g., can simply continue to report via My Tax Service;]] [[calls on the Government to indicate within four weeks whether the old declaration system with the old way of logging in can be maintained in the coming year;]] [[also calls on the Government not to impose a fine on taxable persons who, due to the transition to a new method of identification, cannot meet their obligations in good time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Molen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34972-32]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Molen and Mr Middendorp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34972-33]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Molen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34972-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u160	Yes, but I see Mr Middendorp now appearing at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u161	Yeah, we will, but at least we're trying to stay in time. Is it a justified interruption? Is that about the motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u162	I had too little time to make the following comment, but I can also simply refer it to Mr Van der Molen. As a chamber, we share the view that this law must be implemented soon. Mr Van der Molen also made a few comments on this. Mr Van der Molen mentioned the situation at the Tax Office as something that could influence the vote under this law. He made a number of comments on this. Is that how he sees it? I am not in favour of linking this law to another file at the Treasury.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u163	Very briefly, Mr. Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u164	I do not intend to waive the vote. I do not, of course, rule out the possibility of asking for the vote to take place not tomorrow, but Tuesday. I don't know, but I don't have that intention right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u165	You can always do that later. Thank you. Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u166	Mr. Chairman. What a mess. Okay, so Mrs. Ollongren is sick. I'm glad she's getting better. That's very nice. Then we get a press release and this Secretary of State is sworn in as Minister. He's being honorably discharged. So he's no longer Secretary of State. Then we read that Mrs Ollongren has been relieved of the leadership of the department. So she's clearly not resigning. Last week, in part 1 of this debate, my conclusion was that we now have two Ministers for the Interior. That is not possible, because the Constitution is clear: a ministry is headed by a minister. And what's "a"? "One" means "one." It's a quaint situation we're in right now. It's a violation of state law. Today there is a new development in this soap opera, because the Minister suddenly tells us that Mrs Ollongren is a minister without a portfolio. Huh? How can that be? There are ministers without portfolios. This is stated in Article 44 (2) of the Constitution. However, the Minister just referred to the Prime Minister's letter of 1 November. I've got it right here. It does not say at all that Mrs Ollongren would have become Minister without a portfolio. There's gonna be someone else's secretary without a wallet. That's the current Secretary of Defense, Mrs. Bijleveld. She will be Minister without portfolio for the AIVD. But it doesn't say anywhere that Mrs. Ollongren is still a minister, that she's a minister without a wallet. Also on Koninklijkhuis.nl there is nothing at all. In short, the Minister has just provided incorrect information to the House of Representatives. It doesn't make any sense what he's saying. I think it's quite a mockery what's happening right now. Home Affairs is the mother department. It's the oldest ministry. It is the guardian of the Constitution, of the democratic rule of law and of parliamentary democracy, and we still do not know who is now politically responsible. In my opinion, that makes two. I think that's weird. I think that's very unpleasant, too. I think that's a mockery. Mrs Ollongren does not even succeed in getting her replacement as well. The D66 summit, the group, organizes a strange chair dance. And I find that D66 drives for the umpteenth time a crooked skate. We already saw this with the abolition of the referendum: that was suddenly declared un referendable. We have already seen Mrs Ollongren's remarks about not recognising the election results when the PVV wins and declaring a republic of Amsterdam. We already saw it with the D66 Group, which found that too many white people work in the ministries, which is contrary to Article 1 of the Constitution. And we see it in Mrs Ollongren's comments on all kinds of individual MPs; that is contrary to the constitutional principle "the closer to the Crown, the less party man." It is all the more amazing, because D66 was founded because of a state-law ambition. Mr. Chairman. I note that it is precisely the PVV, the Freedom Party, who here upholds and fights for that transparency and that D66 falls into cheap populism and apparently sees state law as a kind of disposable article that you can only use and throw away a little if you no longer need it. What also hits my chest is the twisting of the D66 Group. Last week Mr Verhoeven agreed with me when I said that there are two ministers, because Mrs Ollongren is still a minister. Today he agrees with Minister Knops who says: Ollongren is a minister without portfolio. And later on, I think, we are going to establish that I am just right, namely that we have two ministers. I very much resent Mr Verhoeven for accusing me of a hetze, whereas all I do here is that I practice state-law purity. I do so by asking the most essential question that a representative of the people must ask: who is politically responsible? I then rely on Articles 50 to 72 of the Constitution, or Chapter 3 of the Constitution. I represent state-law purity and I am simply defending Hans van Mierlo's ideas here. Mr. Chairman. I am glad, however, that Mr Verhoeven says: we have to find out. That is why, to meet him, I have composed this motion for a resolution, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u167	I also propose that Mr Verhoeven should speak first, because he wants to intervene. Surely there was some form of entrapment, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u168	Well, I'd like to say a few things. First of all, Mr Bosma is being pretended to be right in terms of state law, but that is, of course, nonsense. He's just playing a political game here, and I'm giving him that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u169	Then why am I wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u170	I call Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u171	If he wants to keep his mouth shut after his monologue, I'd like to say something back. Secondly, I did say in the first term that there were two ministers. I did just say that I did not have the term "Minister without portfolio" in place last week. I just admitted that, so that's not a turn. I also find the information the Minister has promised useful on that point, so I await it. I have named Mr Bosma's words, and I will stick with that. I can give several examples of this; that is not necessary now. On Mr Bosma's motion, I say: I do not think I am going to support it, but I will, of course, listen to it first, because that is so purely state law, and that is what Mr Bosma likes. I am satisfied with the explanation given by the cabinet that Mr Knops, or someone on behalf of the cabinet, explains exactly how the replacement rule is regulated, so that it is clear to everyone. I supported those Members of Parliament who doubted this, and not all the other comments made by Mr Bosma. He knows that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u172	I propose that Mr Bosma table his motion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u173	Well, Mr Verhoeven says I'm wrong, but he doesn't support that. My story is simply foolproof: we now have two ministers. One of them is said today: that is a minister without a portfolio. But when I look at the Prime Minister's letter, the term "minister without portfolio" is nowhere in relation to Mrs. Ollongren. Even when I look at the announcements of the Koning cabinet at Koninklijkhuis.nl, this is very important, because the resignation of the Prime Minister is announced on that. So Mrs Ollongren is still 100% minister to this day. If Mr Verhoeven says I'm wrong, he has to back that up, but he doesn't, and I think he is very...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u174	The Minister has indicated that he will come back to this in detail in the second term, so we will wait and see. I suggest that the motion be read out in the remaining time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u175	I think it is very foolish of Mr Verhoeven to tear down my motion without having heard it, because I will give you a note that he will give a standing ovation for it when he hears my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u176	We'll see what happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u177	Yeah, all the cameras are gonna zoom in on him. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Article 44 of the Constitution explicitly states the following about the ministries: "They are headed by a minister';]] [[Whereas there are now two Ministers of the Interior and Kingdom Relations;]] [[Predominantly that this may be a serious breach of state law;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to ask the Council of State for information on this possible violation of the Constitution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Martin Bosma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34972-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u178	Mr Verhoeven's party is a member of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u179	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u180	How much happier can I make him?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u181	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Mr Verhoeven, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u182	This is exactly what the PVV always does and this is why I am disappointed in Mr Bosma. He's gonna wiggle with all kinds of state law. I'll give him that. Then he says, "The Council of State has to figure it out." And then he can't help saying, just before he runs away, "There's a fellow party member of Mr Verhoeven." That is totally irrelevant to state law, and you say it anyway; I say this to Mr Bosma, President. So Mr Bosma shows that he is playing a political game, because he still calls the Vice-President of the Council of State "a member of the party."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u183	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u184	No, Mr. Chairman. That's what the PVV is about: sucking, playing games, playing political tricks, under the guise of state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u185	But I'm right, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u186	Mr Bosma's last sentence shows that he is not concerned with state law. He's just about politics. I'll give him that, but let's not call it "state law."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u187	Thank you. Let us try to conclude this deadline now. Mr Bosma, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u188	Mr Verhoeven again says that I am wrong, but he cannot support that. There's just a fellow party member of Mr Verhoeven as leader called "Vice-President of the Council of State." It was dropped there by Mrs. Ollongren, who is also from D66. I think these are Zimbabwean scenes, but that's obviously how it should go in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u189	That is the end of the discussion. We are going to the last speaker, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u190	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to the latter speaker, I await the Minister's response. Mr Bosma referred again to 'two Ministers for the Interior', which is stated in his motion, when I think I have understood correctly that this is not the case. This has created new confusion. I would therefore like to know clearly first of all from the Minister of the Interior. Then I can better understand what Mr Bosma's motion means. Furthermore, as far as I am concerned, we have exchanged enough about it. In fact, I think it is not at all wrong that the Minister should clarify where it was not for some.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u191	Very briefly, Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u192	This situation was created by the top of the D66 group, which organized the chair dance. We had a certain number of ministers and wanted to maintain them. That's why all the cards started. Mr Verhoeven represents the D66 Group here. Let me keep it simple for him, because he says he doesn't understand my motion. Does he insist that at the moment Mrs Ollongren is Minister without portfolio? Is that the position of the D66 Group, which organized all this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u193	This question implies that the D66 group is about the replacement in the cabinet. This, too, is completely incorrect under state law. I do not think that Mr Bosma's question is useful either, because it only leads to more confusion. I've indicated that I would also like to know what's going on. The Minister for the Interior is going to say something about this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u194	I'm finding that we're over and over again...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u195	Mr President, very briefly. We're not in the House of Representatives to hide behind the minister. We're in the House of Representatives to have an opinion of our own. Mr Verhoeven is from the same party as the Minister for the Interior. I just have a very simple question...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u196	No, that's not correct. I'm not from the same party as the Home Secretary, because I'm from D66 and the Home Secretary is from the CDA. So that too is not the right thing to do under state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u197	Thank you. Finally, Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u198	A very simple question: does the D66 Group maintain that Mrs Ollengren is currently Minister without portfolio? Is that the opinion of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u199	This is not about the opinion of the D66 Group. The point is that there is a situation that is right and that can be dealt with properly by state law. If there is such a situation, which the Minister will explain in the second term on the basis of the letter sent, then the D66 Group will simply relate and agree to that situation. But it is not the case that the group of D66 has to mention to the PVV a position on something that the PVV itself says it does not know what is going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u200	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u201	It's really trying to cast smoke curtains; there's no question of that at all. There's just got to be a situation. Mr President, I will respond briefly to Mr Bosma, on the main lines, because we can all be browsing about state law, but that is not the point. The point is that we have a country that is governed. It's run by the government. The House of Representatives has been elected to control the government. If the government does things that are bad for the Dutch, then the House of Representatives must act and appeal to the government. And if necessary, she'll send someone out of the government. This situation, which is the basis of our parliamentary democracy, is entirely possible as it is now organized. That's the point. Then we'll find out exactly what's going on with each other. I was very equestrian in that: I didn't know exactly what was going on either. That's not turning, Mr. Bosma, that's being honest about the knowledge you had or didn't have. You didn't have that knowledge yourself, but you pretend to know a lot about state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u202	Through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u203	Mr President, that is all I am saying: let us check that out, so that everyone knows what is going on. That's the point I made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u204	Thank you very much. I suggest you continue with your input. Or is the time already...?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u205	No, absolutely not. I must disappoint Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u206	This was an answer to an interruption. Mr Verhoeven, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u207	I will continue to disappoint Mr Bosma for the next 3 minutes and 16 seconds, because I will talk about this law. That is not why Mr Bosma has come. I do. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the Interior, who, in my opinion, has shown digital involvement in this issue. He's done that before. I really think he's been serious about all sorts of things that the Chamber has brought up. I would therefore like to thank him for the way in which this debate has been conducted. I think that is also an important part, because everything that has been said here is also part of the legal process, as all the state lawyers know. Mr. Chairman. Paying taxes is something the VVD brought in. That is separate from this law, but I share the principle of the VVD that has just been expressed in a motion by Mr Middendorp, namely that it is indeed odd that companies should pay for making their declaration. That seems important to me. I understand that the spokesperson's finances here will discuss the covenant that is outside this law at another time. I think it's okay if they do. I also think it is important that we simply deal with this law, which does not interfere with it. Then the private parties. I had an exchange with the Secretary of State on that. I believe that, on the basis of the past decade, we have the right to assume that the big companies in general and the big tech in particular are making every effort to collect as many citizens' data as possible. I believe that the digital means of login, which will also be available to the public domain, could be a way forward. I think we should pay attention above average. That is why there are two amendments with a heavy front. I'll keep them standing. I really hope that the Chamber will think seriously about this and that we will not just say: ooh, maybe we will delay the law. The last person who wants to delay the law is me. I'd like to get a grip on this development, which I'm actually just excited about. We are going to place ICT applications in the hands of large companies on a crucial part for citizens, namely authentication. Let's take a really good look at that. I feel a little empty, because I don't have any motions. I have received two promises from the Minister, and I welcome them. The first commitment is that he will investigate whether non-profit digital passports become possible in private transactions. This means that you can also use an audience or a non-profit digital passport, for example for buying a bottle of whisky online, or renting a car. So I'm happy about that. And also for the fact that he is going to inform the Chamber of which private parties are allowed to offer that login, I am grateful to him. I'd like that to be written down in a letter. I also have to get used to the fact that I am not now making a motion in which that is stated, but the Minister has simply promised this. I'm glad we can do that this way too. D66 will vote in favour of the law as it now stands, because on the one hand we consider absolutely the point of the two amendments I have tabled to be important. But there is also an amendment that provides for a veil. I think that a heavy veil is justified here, but I also think that this law provides sufficient leads to be in favour of it. The AMVBs and the way in which the Minister has dealt with the debate also make me feel that we can do this. Nevertheless, I ask the Chamber to think seriously about the step we are going to take here. Big bigtech providers, with a lot of data greed, are now just gonna come up in the public domain with a means of logging in. This is important for citizens and their data. A heavy front is not an unnecessary luxury here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u208	Thank you. Mr Middendorp, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u209	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I know Mr Verhoeven as an optimistic technician. And I recognize them, Mr. Chairman, because I myself am of an optimistic and enterprising tech party. But does Mr Verhoeven not agree with me that his empty feeling, without motions, is actually unjustified? Because what is happening today is that Mr Verhoeven has tabled an amendment together with the VVD. In my view, this is actually a technological leap in legislation for the first time, to my knowledge. Does Mr Verhoeven agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u210	Yes, I certainly agree with Mr Middendorp, but as a Chamber we should try to go back to where we once were, and that is that we are having a debate with a ruler and that, if that governor makes a commitment, we will not table a motion. Now we have all tabled some ten motions, and I actually think we should stop doing that. I find myself, now that I've stopped myself first and haven't lit that cigarette, maybe I'm also a little bit of a motion addict.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u211	Thank you very much. That's what we're gonna do. I'm suspending until 1:05 p.m. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. He doesn't need that, I know. Then I'll suspend until 1:07 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u212	The Minister took advantage of the suspension to prepare the appreciation of the motions submitted. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I get there, a number of questions have been asked, which I would like to answer. To begin with, Mr Van Raak wondered about the basic duty. That basic right is there. There is a very clear relationship between the General Administrative Law Act and this Digital Government Act. The AWB regulates that alternative channels are always available to citizens, such as mail. I've reported that before. The opinion of the Council of State has also been followed by the inclusion of more powers in the Wdo, such as Article 5 (5) which provides a broader basis for regulation of digital government. I think that is sufficient guarantee at the moment. The Wdo is a framework law, so I can intervene where necessary. I've said that before. That is in response to Mr Van Raak. Mr Van Raak has also, a little reflective, looked at how the law has evolved over time, so first public funds, and then private resources in them. Indeed, this has happened after new insights. You call that lobbying. I'm just calling that the exchange of arguments on how to do better. In addition, we have looked at how things are abroad and what the experiences are there. Mr Van Raak said: "Now back again, under pressure from the Chamber, to the public." Well, I wouldn't call it that. This focus on private alternatives resulted from the possibilities offered. I also think it is very good that such legal arguments are gradually being exchanged, including in traffic with the Court, and that this can also lead to adjustments. We're not going back to public right now. The starting point is that there are alternatives for citizens, both public and private, and for the time being there are only private funds for companies. So it's not some kind of total twist in this law. I really think of it as an improvement in the bill. Then both Mr Middendorp and Mr Van Raak asked about these AMvBs. Mr Van Raak also asked whether these AMvBs would be submitted to the Chamber before voting on them. No, that's not the right order. The order is that a law comes into force first and that there are a number of AMvBs under that law. They are then hung to the Chamber. If I were to comply with Mr Van Raak's request, we would now come to a standstill. Mr Middendorp asked when these first AMvBs would come and what content to expect. I assume that the first AMvBs will be coming your way in the first quarter of this year, first the Digital Government Decision. That's about the processing of personal data. Then there is also the AMvB on operating equipment, which describes this whole equipment testing. In the end, they will be followed by other AMvBs in the course of this year. Mr Van Raak asked how the monitoring of that commercial use of data by private parties is going into practice. I have already made a very detailed comment on this in the debate. In essence, of course, pre-control is taking place. This means that accreditation looks very strongly at the content of how a party intends to work and whether that organisation is also organised according to and meets the requirements set out, for example, in the eIDAS or GDPR. Then the system is allowed to run in a test environment and then it is also examined how it works and how the guarantees we ask for have been reduced in practice. It will also check whether the system used is resilient and safe. Subsequently accreditation is granted and monitoring may be carried out during operation. This takes place, inter alia, through regular periodic tests by the regulator Agency Telecom. If it appears that there is a breach of the integrity of the system, as indicated earlier, I have all kinds of possibilities to intervene immediately. Then there are some questions asked by Mr Bosma about the positions. I don't have them right now, but a number of letters have been sent. I was thinking on 1 November of a letter from the Prime Minister, in which it was very clearly stated how the division was achieved after Minister Ollongren was relieved of her responsibility as Minister of the Interior, but remained a minister and de facto Minister without portfolio. Those responsibilities were assigned to three rulers, which was also explicitly stated in that letter of 1 November. That letter stipulates that at the time Mrs Ollongren is restored, she will return to the post of Minister. That is an existing and well-known figure. As far as I am concerned, there is no need for any information about it either. It's just completely clear how it's organized and it's also clearly communicated to the Chamber. I note that in the alleged ambiguity in the letter of 1 November, the Chamber saw no reason to ask questions to the government. The answer to the hypothetical question of what would happen if there were a question of trust in the Chamber vis-à-vis Minister Ollongren and what that would mean for the position of the Minister of the Interior, which I am, is that there is no legal link between it. As far as the question of trust is concerned, it is about trust in a person who holds the office of minister. That would be true if there were a Secretary of State at stake because the rule for that is that at the time when confidence in a minister would be cancelled, the Secretary of State also resigns.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u214	I actually have two factual questions. Does Minister Ollongren still have the right to vote in the Council of Ministers? That is the first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u215	All that has happened is that Minister Ollongren, who was Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, has been relieved of her responsibility for the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and is de facto without portfolio but is still Minister. It does not use it in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u216	It therefore has the right to vote in the Council of Ministers. That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u217	Nor has it been on the Council of Ministers since 1 November when that decision was taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u218	It's not about her person, it's about how it's governed by state law. Then there is my second point. I cannot imagine that if there was a motion of censure against the Minister of the Interior, in this case Mr Knops, Mrs Ollongren would take over his position. That is ultimately up to the Chamber, I realize, but that seems a very strange figure to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u219	No, because two things are mixed up here. At the moment when the Chamber would withdraw its confidence in me and I would resign, there is no automation that Mrs Ollongren would take over, because her return is not linked to my resignation but to her recovery and the extent to which she recovers and can resume her duties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u220	And I wish her a great deal of happiness.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u221	Thank you. Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u222	The soap is getting worse and worse. The Prime Minister's letter, which the Minister cannot find, states that Minister Ollongren has been relieved of the leadership of the Ministry. Now the Minister says something else, namely that she has been relieved of her responsibilities. That's something else. The minister says: she is therefore de facto minister without portfolio. I'm sorry, but we don't know that. You can't be de facto pregnant and or not pregnant. You're either Minister without a wallet or you're not. There's a minister with no wallet. That is Article 44 (2) of the Constitution. De facto minister without portfolio simply does not exist. Also in that letter from the Prime Minister, it is not said that you are de facto Minister without portfolio, because it simply does not exist under state law. And then the Minister says: that is an existing and well-known figure. No, it's not an existing and familiar figure, it just doesn't exist. Either you're Minister without a wallet, or you're not, or you're pregnant, or you're not. We now have a state-law novel. Something new is being presented today. We're making history. A constitutional precedent is being created, case law, because there is now someone de facto minister without a portfolio. There's no such thing, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u223	The texts contained in the Prime Minister's letter are the correct ones. There's nothing mysterious about that and nothing mysterious. De facto, Minister Ollongren is no longer in charge of the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, so de facto she has no political portfolio for which she is responsible. I have already indicated that this situation has arisen earlier on the issue of replacing Minister Plasterk. The only difference was that he was replaced by a minister who was already a minister. In this case, several directors are involved. I have seen Mr Bosma's motion. He asked the government to provide information, but so could Mr Bosma himself. I have no need of that, because for me it is quite clear what is going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u224	Does the Minister agree with me that there is no such thing as a de facto minister without a portfolio?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u225	I am trying to explain what de facto means, namely a minister who is not responsible for a portfolio or a ministry. We have ministers responsible for and responsible for the leadership of a department. Those are the ministers of. We also have ministers in favour. They are responsible for a substantive portfolio and work from a ministry where another minister is responsible for the department's management. At present, Minister Ollongren is not in charge of the tasks she first had and therefore has no substantive portfolio until she returns in good health and good health. Then she will resume her duties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u226	Thank you. Once the questions have been answered, we will now come to the appreciation of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u227	There is just another amendment by Mr Van der Molen to item No. 36. I haven't given them an appreciation yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u228	That's right. Can you give an opinion on that yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u229	I can. As far as I'm concerned, Judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u230	Judgment of the Court of Justice as regards Amendment No. 36 of Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u231	In the motion-Middendorp c.s. in piece No. 27 the government is invited to examine how to deal with costs already incurred by entrepreneurs during the period when there was no free digital alternative and to inform the Chamber before 1 April. I can assure you that in any case, but since it has already been stated that there will be an investigation into this particular group, I would ask Mr Middendorp to hold this motion until then. I expect to have more clarity about this in a month's time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u232	Does Mr Middendorp intend to hold this motion? Otherwise, if Mr Middendorp does not wish to do so, I would like to hear the Minister's appreciation of this motion. I'll have enough if you tell me whether you're holding the motion or not. Go ahead, Mr. Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u233	No, Mr. Chairman, I can't do that in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u234	You're not going to hold the motion. Then I'll ask the Minister what the verdict is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u235	Then I must discourage the motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u236	The judgment on the motion in part No. 27 then is: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u237	In the motion for a resolution by Mr Middendorp/Van der Molen on part No. 28 The Government is invited to provide an insight into the costs and changes in the rates of company logging resources and to regulate monitoring. We've talked about that before. I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u238	The motion in part No. 28: Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u239	The same applies to the Middendorp motion in part No. 29, in which the government is invited to examine how public means of identification could be used in additional, specific situations outside government and designated sectors. We talked about that, too. None of this is currently covered by this law, but it is a follow-up to what we are now regulating.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u240	The motion in part No. 29: Judgement Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u241	Judgment Room. Then I come to the Özütok motion on part No. 30. It is about a framework that goes back to a framework that is not in the motion, but well: the framework. in the motion, the government is invited to consult with these municipalities in the development of this framework with a view to taking into account their experiences and insights about decentralised authentication services within municipalities. I mentioned earlier that the starting point of the Wdo is that personal data should be adequately protected. Whether it is central or decentralised is not really relevant. If a private party can prove to secure the data well, it will be monitored by the Telecom Agency and the AP. There are no grounds for restricting central or decentralised storage methods. Several municipalities now have experience with this decentralised storage and I am willing to consult with them. So I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u242	The motion in part No. 30: Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u243	In Mrs Özütok's motion and in my view Mr Verhoeven, if I can read it correctly, in part No. 31, the government is requested to ensure in the relevant AMvB that application software in which personal data are used are as open source as possible. We have also talked about this before. I come in March with a letter on this. I am taking this into account in the second tranche, so I would actually ask the authors to hold the motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u244	Then I'd like to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u245	At the request of Mrs Özütok, I propose her motion (34972, No. 31). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u246	In the Van der Molen motion in part No. 32 the Government is invited to examine how a public means can be provided as a means of business and organisation and to inform the Court of Justice before 1 December 2020. That investigation seems fine to me, so I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u247	The motion in part No. 32 Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u248	In the Van der Molen/Middendorp motion on piece No. 33 the government is invited to launch relevant pilots as soon as possible with a view to introducing recognition of private means of identification. I can leave that judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u249	The motion in part No. 33 Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u250	In the Van der Molen motion in part No. 34 the government is invited to indicate within four weeks whether the old declaration system could be maintained with the old method of logging in and to ask the government not to impose a fine and inform the Chamber of taxable persons who, due to the transition to a new method of identification, cannot meet their obligations in good time. I can also leave the judgment to the Chamber. I have already indicated that it is probably an illusion to have definitive solutions within four weeks, but I assume that this problem will also be taken seriously by my colleague in the Treasury and the Tax Administration. Together, we will look at how we can resolve this problem properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u251	The motion in part No. 34 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u252	On the motion in part No. 35, actually, I'd already given the judgment. I'm gonna have to dissuade him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u253	The motion in part No. 35 is not recommended. We have thus had the appreciation of the motions, but I see that Mr Middendorp wishes to make another comment on this. On a motion of your own? No. On another motion? No. Mr Middendorp, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u254	There was one more question I put to the Minister in the second term. I heard in the first term of the cabinet that it might well be that in the future not only entrepreneurs will have to pay for tax, so they will have to pay when they log in. Nor could the Minister say whether citizens could continue to make free digital declarations in the future. The VVD absolutely doesn't want that. It seems to me a strange figure to make citizens pay as well. I'd like to ask the Minister what he thinks of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u255	One: I can't rule out anything that happens in the future. So I have to answer every question that is aimed at that: I cannot rule that out. Two: with regard to the electronic identity card and the means available to it, which we spoke about earlier, the citizen is already paying for it, namely in the form of a fee. I have spoken with Mr Middendorp earlier about the story 'we want it to be free'. "Free" doesn't exist. It is a commonly used term, even with the VVD, and I support it wholeheartedly, but also in this case there are always costs. Those charges are encrypted to the left or right. I am not saying at the moment that tariffs would be charged to citizens. I do not see that happening in the short term. In this case, this is also partly the responsibility of the Tax Administration, when it comes to logging in; when it comes to resources, you have come to the right place with me. In any case, I can say that nothing is foreseen in the short term, but that the principle that you pay for certain funds is already in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u256	Thank you. The answer was clear and clear, I suppose. That brings me to the end of the second term. No, Mr. Middendorp, we're not moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u257	I propose that we vote on Tuesday on the amendments tabled, on the legislative proposal and on the motions for resolutions. Can Members agree to that? That's the case. In conclusion, Mr Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u258	I fully understand that we are not going to repeat the debate we have just had, but I had another point. That's what I'm gonna do. In fact, two weeks ago, when the Passport Act was being treated, there was a link with this law. I have already made it clear, in my view, that the Minister actually agreed that we should not postpone the vote on the Digital Government Act for all kinds of reasons. In any case, that is the commitment of the VVD. I would like to add that if there are other Members who see a clear link between the Passport Act and the Digital Government Act, I would like to agree, at least as far as the VVD is concerned, that if the votes on this law are postponed, we should not also postpone the votes on the Passport Act. I don't think that would be right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-3.u259	Clear. As far as the votes are concerned, I have proposed that all this should take place on Tuesday. Members agreed to this. I note that we have come to the end of the second term and the answer. I'm suspending until 2:00 p.m.
