ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the report on general consultations on construction. Welcome to the Minister for the Environment and Living, to the Members, to the audience in the Chamber and to those watching at a distance. Mr Ronnes has the floor first on the side of the Chamber. He speaks for the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr President. There is a lot of talk in these times about the construction assignment and everything that has to do with living. Not for nothing, because the housing market is actually on fire. We have had a very good debate in general consultation. As a CDA, we have also put forward a number of ideas. One of these ideas, about Valkenburg, is expressed in a motion that Mr Koerhuis will present shortly. I myself have a motion on the Rhineenburg area. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a border correction in 2001 added the Rijnenburg and Reijerscop area to the city of Utrecht for housing;]] [[whereas there is a significant shortage of housing in the city of Utrecht and the surrounding region and that an initial exploration of the province of Utrecht and the U10 municipalities shows that at least 22,000 homes can be built in Rijnenburg and Reijerscop;]] [[Whereas giving substance to housing in the Rijnenburg area can make an additional contribution to removing the pressure on the housing market in the triangle The Hague, Amsterdam and Utrecht, and should therefore not only be seen from the housing statement for Utrecht;]] [[Whereas consultations between the Empire and the city administration of Utrecht have not (yet) resulted in preference being given to fast housing;]] [[Notes that significant national interests with a view to good land-use planning require that preference be given to substantial housing;]] [[calls on the government to consult with the city of Utrecht in the short term in order to remove the thresholds for housing at Rijnenburg site in order to speed up the creation of the new district;]] [[also invites the government, if necessary, to give the city of Utrecht a proactive indication as referred to in Article 4.4 of the Regional Planning Act in order to achieve the early realisation of sustainable housing at the Rijnenburg site,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-588]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u3	I find it quite remarkable again. The CDA, the party that always claims to represent municipalities and local autonomy, is now not getting its way in Utrecht, because the municipality of Utrecht opts for inner city building and not for a completely unopposed polder where I do not think you will be building a house for the next ten years, even if you would start preparing now. And then the government is just gonna have to overrule this? I would like to know from Mr Ronnes how he rhymes this with the principles of his party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u4	In principle, these principles remain valid. We believe that municipalities are the first to play that role. We are also informed as a Chamber about its progress. We got the ABF report. The version of October 2019 is actually clear. It says: "However, not all regions with tense housing markets have sufficient planning capacity to reduce the housing shortage to a significant extent. This is also the case in view of the extent of the current housing shortage, especially in the functional housing market areas of Utrecht..." Given the importance of the Utrecht triangle, The Hague, Amsterdam, we think that we should deal with these areas very strategically. This is also our party's opinion on the spatial implementation of the Netherlands. We must be careful with our areas, but where some real housing is possible in the current context of numbers, deficits and challenges ahead, we will have to take responsibility for ensuring that sufficient housing is built in the future. Moreover, as far as Rijnenburg is concerned, we are not saying that these houses will be there next year. In particular, it is a matter of initiating the process in order to make housing possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u5	I really think of this as one big distraction. The cabinet hardly does anything to counter the housing crisis, and then it's two areas in the country. I don't know if you've seen it before, but in Amsterdam and Utrecht today, it was in the newspaper "Most of the houses have been built, despite the left-wing city authorities you're always on. Suppose Rijnenburg continues, which I think is the worst possible location, at what time does Mr Ronnes think that the first houses are there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u6	At least faster than Utrecht proposes. They don't have the idea of doing that until after 2040. So as far as we're concerned, we're bringing it up. You will make another comment about the number of houses built, for example in Amsterdam. All this has to do with the preparations that were made years ago, where the permit issue in 2018 was such that those homes can be built. We see a real decline in the number of new building permits issued in 2019, which I estimate is about 20%. And so we simply need to take action, even if we look at the projections we get from the Minister when it comes to the housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u7	Thank you for your contribution. I call Mr Koerhuis on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u8	The housing shortage is high in the Netherlands. Valkenburg near Katwijk is a large housing site where more than 5,000 houses can be built and which has been discussed for fifteen years. Lots of words, little action. It's enough once. I want the Minister to intervene and for this the VVD, together with D66 and the CDA, is now tabling a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the housing shortage in the Netherlands is high;]] [[noting that former Valkenburg Air Force Camp may be a large housing site;]] [[noting that the talks between Katwijk, Wassenaar and the Rijksvoestgoedbedrijf about Valkenburg have been going on for about fifteen years;]] [[noting that Katwijk wants to realize up to 5,000 homes;]] [[Whereas no zoning plan appears to be adopted in the short term;]] [[calls on the Government to intervene in the housing crisis by instructing the Province of South Holland to come forward with a Valkenburg integration plan in conjunction with a coordination scheme whereby:]] [[the financial gap is closed as far as possible by creating more than 5,000 dwellings;]] [[the remaining administrative arrangements between Katwijk, Wassenaar and the Rijksvaastgoedbedrijf are maintained as far as possible;]] [[the Court is informed of the incorporation plan for its adoption,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koerhuis, Mr Van Eijs and Mr Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-589]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a housing crisis in the Netherlands right now. We really need to do everything we can as a government to ensure that there are enough affordable homes for everyone. Then it is also important to build. There's a lot more to build. I'll say a little more about that in a moment. But what I do have a bit of a problem with is that a number of parties in this Chamber just call out "build, build, build" and pretend to build more homes to solve all the problems in the housing market, but that's just not the case. It is at least as important to regulate free sector prices so that it remains affordable. It is at least as important to make sure that this landlord's tax, just a tax on social housing, is abolished so that corporations can start building affordable housing again. And yes, you also have to make sure that there can be built. I have two questions for the Minister. Does the Minister have instruments or is she prepared to ensure that those additional homes that are hopefully going to be built are also available to students and start-ups? Because at the moment we see that often young people without their own resources and often with a high student debt simply cannot get in the way at the moment. So is the Minister prepared to make arrangements for these target groups in particular so that they too, as in the past, can simply buy a house? The second point I would like to put to the Minister concerns the Ladder for sustainable urbanisation. You notice that there are a number of other parties in the Chamber calling out: those municipalities and provinces, all too difficult, who do not want to build in the green. I think it is very important that we attach ourselves to local democracy and autonomy. Does the Minister share that view of GroenLinks? Is she going to use the Ladder for sustainable urbanization really hard, so before we go into the polder? I'm very curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u10	Thank you for your contribution. Mr Nijboer has the floor on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Too many words, too little action," the VVD just said. The spokesperson pointed to a project of 5,000 homes. I would actually like to put that on the whole cabinet policy on housing: a lot of words, a lot of talk, a lot of research, a lot of consultation and far too little action. People are out of homes. Renting becomes priceless. Then you can use a diversion to point out one municipality and blame it, but it is the fault of this cabinet, which simply does far too little to address the housing shortage that prevails in the Netherlands. I remind the Minister for the Environment and Living of the Constitution. That's supposed to be a concern of the government. This cabinet is failing to do so. I have a motion to at least take another step in the right direction. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a shortage of housing;]] [[Whereas speculators for profit sometimes leave land set aside;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to investigate legal measures to force private parties that deliberately do not build to do so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-590]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We will be standing here to discuss the problems that the people in the Netherlands currently have because of the housing shortage, and to try to get the cabinet moving in this last, almost outgoing year. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u13	Thank you for your speech. Finally, Mrs Van Eijs has the floor from the side of the Chamber on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This morning we had an informative round table discussion about affordability. Then about the entire housing market, or housing or whatever you want to call it, came along. Today I'm gonna focus on the construction assignment. Fortunately, this morning we saw some nice figures about the construction production in the Netherlands. It's never been this high since 2009. Of course, it's far from enough, but we're heading in the right direction. That doesn't change the fact that we can see in a number of places that it could be faster. That's what the next motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has a large housing rating;]] [[noting that in Utrecht at the Rijnenburg site there is an opportunity to create, among other things, a significant number of houses, but that it is not foreseen until 2040;]] [[Whereas responsibility for housing is decentralised, under the coordination of the Empire;]] [[noting that the local democratic process of achieving an optimum balance between different interests is still ongoing;]] [[calls on the government to enter into a short-term dialogue with Utrecht to remove the thresholds for housing at the Rijnenburg site in order to speed up the earlier realisation of the new district,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Eijs and Koerhuis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-591]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u15	For those of you who think I have a telepathic connection with Mr Ronnes, we have had a discussion in advance about Rijnenburg, and that is why the texts may be similar.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u16	This is also very special: two motions from the coalition and you clearly disagree. However, I am also shocked by this motion from D66, because I believe that D66 has also been the party to date who says: no, we must also comply with our efforts in the field of renewable energy in Utrecht. Rijnenburg is extremely suitable for this. Does D66 now say: Utrecht, forget about renewable energy, that's not gonna happen anymore? I'd find that really weird. But I think that is the consequence of your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u17	I don't think that's the consequence of the motion. The motion says that if you want to realize housing in the future, there are still a number of obstacles to mobility and so on. They are known to Mr Smeulders, I think. I would like the Minister to discuss whether some of these thresholds can be removed and whether we cannot combine the energy statement that exists with the housing statement. I believe that our local group has also asked many times: we see a lack of housing and we also see a huge challenge when it comes to the energy transition, so to what extent can we not combine and optimise that? As stated in the motion, the discussion is still taking place locally. I would only like to help that by looking at the barriers that are still in the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u18	I have a genuine question for Mrs Van Eijs: what time does she think that homes will be built in Rijnenburg? Because I think you can regulate renewable energy very quickly and it takes an incredible amount of time to build homes, because it really is the worst imaginable location of the whole environment. So at what time do you think that there will arise with the help of your motion residences?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u19	Now people are only talking about "from 2040." To be honest, that's a long way away. Then we're really talking about 20 years. Let me put it this way: if there are windmills for fifteen years, then it is still true that if you build houses next to them or below them or near them, you are still faster than what is in the planning. We are therefore saying: if it can be done more quickly, I believe that part of it can be done. See what thresholds you can remove to make that possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u20	I am very pleased with the direction D66 is actually putting on the table here. It is actually a very good move to use the building capacity that exists. I do have a question. Suppose these talks show that Rijnenburg is actually the most real option to deal substantially with the pressure on the housing market, but there is resentment on the line because municipalities, provinces and the Empire do not agree on this development. How far does D66 want to go if it really turns out that it is necessary to use Rijnenburg for housing anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u21	We have also seen that there is a lot of other planning capacity in Utrecht at the moment. There it can be achieved much faster, because there are indeed challenges in Rijnenburg in terms of water level and mobility. So I think to myself: we can start thinking very much about "what if we don't come out later?', But there are still very real thresholds at the moment. If we've gone over that, you should see how fast you can go, but we shouldn't lose sight of all those other locations. They also need to be realized.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u22	Maybe another follow-up question. At his weekly press conference on Friday, the Prime Minister said that the cabinet is prepared to move forward, if that proves necessary. That is also the essence of the last operative part of my motion. Does D66 share the view that if it is really necessary, the cabinet should be able to move forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u23	I think that is really necessary if the municipality or the province does not feel the urgency, or if they say that there are no more obstacles, but we simply don't want to do anything else now. Then we'll have a whole different conversation, I guess. But at the moment, there are very real things to say: we cannot put the shovel in the ground tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u24	As an opposition member in these days, you have almost half a day's work to see the differences between the coalition over and over again. But I would like to ask Mrs Van Eijs: what exactly is the difference between the motion of the CDA and the motion of D66? Because if you ask the PvdA, I'd rather have a place than a windmill. Is that the message from D66? Is that different from what the CDA put forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u25	In the motion I try to explain the following. Locally, the discussion is still about the question: what can we do within certain deadlines? We also need to develop other places in Utrecht, so Rijnenburg may not be the first place you want to put all your planning capacity into. The difference is that my motion says that there is still a democratic process going on locally. And I'm not thinking right now about, for example, a clue, but I see more in solving thresholds. In my view, the discussion is not local at all or should ever be housing, but the discussion is more: when can these homes be built, what time is convenient and is it not useful, if we are not yet able to build houses, to install solar panels or windmills in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u26	Okay, because I'm gonna have to advise my group later, and those motions are patchy texts. I have to advise my group, but actually say CDA and VVD: take action, Minister. And D66 says...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u27	You can just say "for." Say we're in favour of D66's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u28	Yes, I understand that's your wish. I get that a lot, and sometimes you get disappointed here. D66 says that we want this direction too, but it goes less far than what they do. Is that it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u29	Yes, and more the focus on the real obstacles that there are instead of pretending that province and municipality are only unwilling. I do not think that this is always the case, but that there are really real restrictions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u30	Fine. You were also at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u31	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u32	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'll suspend the sitting for five minutes, and then we'll get the verdict on the four motions filed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u33	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the report on the general consultation of the European Parliament on construction. The Minister for the Environment and Living has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna take two motions together, the motion in part no. 591 and those in part No. 594. They're about the designation of Rijnenburg. The common thread in both motions is actually: give a clue to Rijnenburg. I understand very well what the background of the members is to ask for action in Utrecht. We want sufficient housing plans, not only in the next few years, but also in the longer term. Rijnenburg was once added as a housing site. So I understand very well why Members say: there is a great potential there; that needs to be looked at carefully. On the other hand, as a state, I think that you should, in principle, talk to provinces and municipalities in particular about achieving sufficient volume, namely 130% planning capacity, in a reasonable time, not only after 2040, but also at the time when the houses are needed. And the need is high right now. I would ask both Members to hold on to their motions because, as they are now formulated, they go one step too far for me in relation to where we stand in the administrative process. I am happy to discuss this with Utrecht, and I say this about whether they have sufficient housing capacity in the plans, not only after 2040, but also before that, and what is the position of the Rijnenburg site in that respect. I will explicitly discuss the Rijnenburg site with them, without prejudging that I believe that it should be built prematurely or earlier. Because we steer at the amount and pace, but initially the province is about the location. Now it says, "After 2040." But we must be sure that there will also be sufficient capacity in the near future. I am therefore happy to discuss this with Utrecht in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u35	I hear the Minister talking about two motions, but in her terms, as I interpret them, she actually fully supports my motion, and she says about Mr Ronnes's motion: perhaps you should hold it. Because she says she wants to talk to Utrecht, et cetera, et cetera. Mobility seems to me to be one of the most important points of discussion. It is not entirely clear to me why our motions are given exactly the same judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u36	Because also in the motion in part No. 594 concluded that the government should enter into a short-term dialogue with Utrecht in order to remove the thresholds for housing at Rijnenburg site. I say I want to steer at tempo and volume. Rijnenburg won't be in the books until after 2040. I think this is a reason to ask Utrecht for an explanation: is that real, are there enough other locations for that time to keep growth, pace and volume until then? But I believe that both motions anticipate that the thresholds for earlier construction should be removed. And that is precisely the subject of my conversation with Utrecht. I shall, of course, be happy to report to you on this. If you hold the motions, you can always decide whether you still want to put the motions to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u37	Does that lead to a conclusion on holding the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u38	I'm gonna think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u39	I am curious in this discussion to see how much force the cabinet is using when it turns out that more perseverance must be possible. That's the point. I'm gonna disconnect it from Rijnenburg. The Prime Minister has made a very strong statement: we are not shy of moving forward if we feel that this is necessary. I am actually looking for a response from the Minister that she is in the same position. I expect it to, because I think the cabinet speaks with one voice, but I want to hear it here. I understand the signal. I have heard that the Minister has been or is still going to talk in Valkenburg. I'm very curious to see what progress has been made there. For me, the way in which the cabinet operates is decisive for what I do with the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u40	Let me make it quite clear in the same words as the Prime Minister here in the Chamber: we will not hesitate to use other instruments if necessary. No doubt about that. At Valkenburg, I will be joining Mr Koerhuis' motion in a moment. I just came, literally, from a conversation with the municipality of Valkenburg, the province and the National Real Estate Company. The urgency of the task is always outlined in detail here in the Chamber. That urgency is there. We have just shared the urgency. We have also shared that the delay has taken far too long and that the construction of those 5,000 homes in Katwijk really needs to be started. We also agreed to do that. That happened from the Chamber under pressure, among other things. This pressure may also have played a role in the fact that otherwise one is also willing to use the instruments that you as a Empire have at your disposal if necessary. Again, that's very fresh from the press. The appointments are still on paper with each other. I hope to be able to send a letter to the Chamber within two weeks, but the willingness to use these other instruments is there if necessary. Of course, as drivers, you always try to get out of it, but it's about the delay that doesn't last any longer and we start building those homes, which are so necessary in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u41	Mr. Ronnes, does that lead you to a conclusion about holding the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u42	There is a rather intensive preparation attached to the motion, so I really want to sleep on it. But I did hear what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u43	I would ask the Minister to give a ruling because the authors of the motion are not yet prepared to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u44	I have said why I think at the moment that I have other steps to take first with regard to Utrecht. That is why I should advise against the motion in its present form, but I would like to share with the Chamber that I believe that there should be enough pace and volume everywhere and that I will also discuss it. In this I will specifically discuss the position of Rijnenburg, both in terms of pace and volume. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the motion on part No. 589 over Valkenburg. I would say: until this morning, until the conversation I have just come from and which I have not been able to report to the Chamber, I really thought that the use of the instrument will prove necessary. I think that's what you thought, too. I'm happy with the administrative conversation we've had. Again, I would be happy to provide some more information on this. It can then be involved in the motion in part No. 589 by Mr Koerhuis, Mrs Van Eijs and Mr Ronnes. When we come out of it administratively, of course, it's always the best thing for everyone. I would be happy to report the details to the Chamber. Then you can then assess what you want to do with this motion, which I certainly understand very well in view of this morning's discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u45	Which means you're asking again to hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u46	Yes, I would actually ask the authors to hold the motion, but I can also imagine that before they give a judgment, Members would like to take note of some more information about the conversation I just came from. It's really hard to do that right now, but we've really had a good administrative conversation with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u47	Then the judgment is dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u48	The request is to hold the motion. I'm not getting much further at the moment, but maybe we'll get there already. Then Mr Koerhuis can always say that he... Let me say the following. I've come with a letter about the arrangements as they are made. I can also give an opinion on the motion to the Chamber, then I do not have to do so now and then Mr Koerhuis can take note of the letter before he decides whether or not to hold his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u49	And is that gonna work for Tuesday, February 4th?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u50	I'm gonna do my best to do that, but I can't promise that right now. But a vote can, of course, be scheduled at any time. So I do my best to make those appointments as soon as possible... At least within two weeks we know it and that, I believe, is important to all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u51	It would indeed have been one of my questions if it could have been before the vote on Tuesday. Another question, because two things are asked in the motion: an integration plan in conjunction with a coordination scheme. There is also a great deal of time to be gained from the coordination scheme. Would the Minister take with him in her letter whether and how, should Katwijk himself come up with a zoning plan, we can do so in conjunction with a coordination arrangement, so that in a year's time we can just get that kick on the ground?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u52	I would be happy to include in the letter any agreements we can make on speeding up housing. Mr Koerhuis mentions the coordination arrangements. I would be happy to say something about that in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u53	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u54	That was the motion in part No. 589. Then I come to the motion on part No. 590. It calls on the Cabinet to investigate legal measures to enforce coercion. Municipalities already have extensive private law opportunities. It is also up to the municipalities, so I advise against this motion in its present form. Mr Nijboer made a number of comments about the lack of construction. Indeed, construction production has not been high since 2009. The fact that we are now lagging behind is also because there has been far too little construction in recent years. I am very pleased that the cabinet, not the previous 2 billion, has allocated this cabinet to boost housing. I hope we can catch up as soon as possible. I'm happy with today's numbers. We all know that it can get a little exciting next year and the year after that. We have to do everything we can with each other because there are so many people waiting for a place to live. Mr Nijboer and I agree on that. We're really gonna have to do everything we can with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u55	I'm thinking, I'm gonna file a little lame motion, and I might have a chance that it'll make it. The cabinet loves to investigate. I would like to point out the areas that are set aside. Municipalities ask for a building obligation or expropriation if it really takes too long, but they cannot use those instruments. It is not the case that municipalities can actually do this, as the Minister says, and that the motion is therefore superfluous. I do not follow that reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u56	If Mr Nijboer asks the government to investigate the possibilities of exploiting set-aside sites, this is what is said other than that private parties deliberately do not build and that they should be forced to do so. This encounters other private law barriers, such as property law and so on. It may be expressed differently in the explanatory statement than in the text of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u57	I would like to amend the motion in that direction, because that is of course the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u58	If the motion is modified, I'm always willing to re-evaluate her. I can't judge that right now. I'm gonna wait for the modified motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u59	For the time being, the motion before us contains the verdict "dissuade."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u60	Then GroenLinks had another question about the ladder for sustainable urbanisation. The ladder is a motivational tool and should be used in this way. It doesn't mean you can't build externally. That doesn't prohibit the ladder for urban compaction either. If there is insufficient space then there can also be built externally. The ladder for sustainable urbanisation is an important tool. GroenLinks asked about new homes for starters and students. That's what we're sending in broad. There are performance agreements with corporations. I also mention the housing impulse. I think there's also an agreement on student accommodation. For starters as well as for students it is important that there are more houses in width. Mr Koerhuis has asked several times to see if we can make things up to make it extra easy for starters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u61	Let us not have a debate on this now, because we will do so in the AO's at 3 p.m. I would very much like to know what the verdict on motion No. 589 is. All I know is that the Minister has requested that the motion be held. But if we're going to vote on Tuesday, I think it's good use to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u62	I'm going to make an order proposal about that. I take the liberty of saying that the Minister has indicated that she will give a written opinion on this motion. It has just indicated that it will give an opinion on the amended motion that Mr Nijboer will table. You can do that in one letter. If we fail to do so by Tuesday, we shall vote the following week on the motions that have been tabled. This procedure is often followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u63	Mr President, I do not think that is your concern. The proposers shall decide whether to put the motion to the vote on Tuesday or the following week. It's okay with me, but I don't think it's the way it's supposed to be. The Minister just doesn't want to say she's deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u64	I told you about what I just said. I come directly from a meeting where the Members of Parliament have not yet been able to take note of the details. I think it is right that I should first give a little more information to the Chamber so that the Chamber can form an opinion on this issue in conjunction with the motion for a resolution. Then I can give an opinion on that motion and it is also clear where that judgment comes from. Since I really come directly from that consultation, I think this is the right way to enable the Chamber to make a balanced assessment of what should be done here. If an amended motion is tabled, I am, of course, willing to let the Chamber know how I feel about it. This will provide you with the best basis for your decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u65	When it comes to the rules of the game, we can only vote when there is a judgment. If the Minister states in the debate 'I have no judgment yet, but I am going to do so in writing', we will wait until that judgment is reached. Then it is up to the proposers to decide whether to put the motion to the vote. That's right, but for now, it's important that we get a judgment first. We hope to have received that by letter by Tuesday. If that does not work, we hope to hear it so that we can schedule it for the following week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u66	If I give details about the deal with Katwijk, I think it's important to be able to coordinate it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u67	You explained that. Thank you. This brings us to the end of the treatment of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-6.u68	I thank the Minister and suspend the sitting for a moment.
