ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u1	The next item is the continuation of the first term of office of the Chamber of General Political Reviews. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Peace and the return of justice, which were experienced here at the Binnenhof 75 years ago. The First Chamber, as you recalled, met for the first time on 18 October 1945. And anyone who reads the opening words of then President Baron De Vos van Steenwijk tastes the gratitude for the regained freedom and the fire to seek the good for the Netherlands. 75 years later, there's a lot to worry about, but it's good to think about how special it is to meet in peace and in complete freedom for many years. Mr. Chairman. We are living in completely different times now, unfortunately not without a threat. It's another threat. The threat of an invisible but violent virus rages through the Netherlands and causes a global pandemic. This makes the discussion of the Millions' Note a special issue, especially without the Minister of Finance, but we will probably see it appear. But it is already clear that all the forecasts for the coming year, but also for the next year, will certainly be different. The corona crisis has severe consequences and mercilessly puts the finger on things we didn't have in order. The differences are getting bigger. When the first corona wave came, Dutch society rose up, with solidarity and the will to help each other. The fraction of the Christian Union is impressed by this resilience and is proud of it. A broad sense of solidarity and a deep appreciation for all the hard workers in the hospitals, nursing homes and other places of care are very appropriate. But also for education, which invented itself digitally in no-time, and the police, where they continued to promote security despite everything. And society realizes: these are the people who are committed to all of us, to the public interest. But we are also faced with our vulnerability and with the point that there is solid homework, whether it is the availability of medical devices, self-sufficiency in essential goods or the major issues such as the establishment of the labour market, the position of low-paid workers with flexible jobs or the appreciation of the public good. The differences that the Netherlands already had are getting bigger. And the lowest paid, those who live in the socially weakest neighbourhoods, experience the most trouble and the greatest burden. According to the Christian Union, combating these growing distances is one of the government's biggest and most important tasks for the coming years. I would like to ask the Prime Minister how the cabinet reflects on these issues. Now that the crisis is continuing, we can see even more clearly how the socio-economic and social problems are being strengthened. There is increasing unemployment, young people cannot start on the labour market, there is loneliness among 37% of the 75+ population, which is more than one in three and there is a accumulation of problems in socially weaker neighbourhoods. That puts us at the mercy of the facts and, as far as I am concerned, also on the task of cabinet and chamber. How do we ultimately want to get out of this crisis? Same as before, or are we taking the opportunity to resource? What characterizes our society and what role does the government have? Can we think through this crisis so that we can preserve the good and start the necessary changes right away? These are big questions, but I'd like to hear how the cabinet organises to make all the sharpest choices about this. The government has clearly said goodbye to the role of market master and has the direction back in care and in mitigating the fall in an economic crisis. It goes without saying that first of all attention should be paid to the most visible problems, the immediate problems: full hospitals and ic's, the current companies and sometimes whole sectors that are experiencing economic fragility. But in addition to the first crisis management, how does the cabinet get to the long lines needed for the follow-up? What principles does she have for this policy? How does the government plan to develop? I have seen with approval that the already existing trend to stop the neoliberal vision of the government, to promote recovery of public interest, is widely supported in the House of Representatives, from liberal-oriented to third-way socialists. But now it is important to give that a good follow-up. For the Christian Union group, this is not a pendulum that then goes to a large government. No, we are moving forward, towards a government that gives space to society, directs and has solid knowledge in all areas where the public case is at stake. In this respect, the WRR has made good recommendations in its reflections on the long-term consequences of this corona crisis: invest in knowledge and capacity, organise counterpower and accountability and ensure that private parties take responsibility. Is there a reaction from the cabinet to this, including the specific recommendations? Can the Prime Minister outline how he intends to achieve a broad shared approach to address the long-term consequences of this crisis? The first wave brought presents to the Hague Haga Hospital. The second wave requires the use of additional security guards to control aggressive family members of patients, as De Volkskrant wrote this weekend. Unfortunately, the polarization and hardening that our society knew well before the corona crisis is back. It's not just numbers that matter. Account must also be taken of the social and emotional consequences for people, the elderly who rarely meet people, the young student behind the laptop alone or the people in a contact profession in permanent uncertainty. They must have perspective and experience that society is next to them, that we have hope for another future and that in the meantime they are not alone. This can be done by continuing to identify what kind of society we want to be, what we live for, and also how we want to get out of this crisis, with regard to the groups that have it the hardest. In a long-term crisis, the mentality is essential. What do we live for? In the coming months too, how does the cabinet ensure that a sense of purpose and a strengthening of a mentality to maintain it are promoted? Is this topic of discussion with the mayors, with the churches and religious organizations, with numerous volunteer initiatives that we see? Are local initiatives encouraged? Is it not time to discuss this issue with society and to show and encourage good initiatives? Restoring the economy will have to be accompanied by active labour market policies. The distorted labour market with a proliferation of flex constructions and low-paidzzp jobs shows that there is a need for rapid change during this crisis. I call on the cabinet to follow the advice of the Borstlap Committee with haste, in order to come up with a package that will adapt labour law, in addition to abolishing the tax advantages, but also to come up with active labour market policies in the sense of retraining or retraining workers who will not find work in the coming years or will hardly find work. All the necessary money has been released, but now it is really important to come up with targeted retraining from work to work and to remove divisions where necessary. What arrangements are being developed and at what speed? Both the Borstlap Committee and the WRR note that we are still the fence shutters internationally. How and with what speed is the cabinet going to change that and keep this Chamber informed? The National Growth Fund, for which Mrs Jorritsma mentioned many beautiful names in the morning, can make a good contribution to the recovery of the economy. But I urge the government not to return here to the time when only economic growth was the measure, to include the issues that I will mention, because as the Remkes Committee rightly said: not everything can be done. It will be and will continue to be attractive to want to grow back quickly and to promote activities that provide short-term employment but simply cannot be appropriate in the long term. On the contrary, the National Growth Fund can help to make the Dutch economy a sustainable economy. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister that this is and will continue to be a requirement for companies that are going to use this fund, and that they receive not only from the collective provisions, but also from the other side. The support measures, which we have taken in the various emergency packages and which have been announced again today, and the Growth Fund are making a financial claim to the future. At the moment, and also in the coming years, it would be very unwise to earn them back, already cutting back. Looking back at the credit crisis, we have to note that at the time the account was largely transferred to the employee, the tax-paying citizen. The Christian Union Group wants a fair deal with the cost of this crisis. Does the cabinet share this point of view and will it endeavour to do so? Mr. Chairman. Much of my contribution is about the effects of this corona crisis. But let's not forget the big issues before the crisis broke loose. I am thinking of the climate, of the great concerns about the consequences of global warming, of the energy transition, of the continuing deep misery in the refugee camps on the Greek islands and of unstable regions and geopolitical revolutions, which Mr Knapen has already mentioned. If there is a time when development aid will matter, then there will be in the coming years. I ask the cabinet to stand firm in this respect. Last year, we discussed the rule of law and how it is seriously under pressure from the advancing undermining and the drug mafia, which is far-fetched. The cabinet's commitment is good, but unfortunately much more remains to be done. This is underlined by the Noordanus report, which underlines every day the news reports on rolled-up plantations and laboratories. What about the delta plan against undermining this cabinet? When will we see a real campaign against the normalization of drugs? After all, whoever uses it sponsors the serious crime. And does the cabinet think that more needs to be taken out of the closet in order to win this battle? It will be clear that the group of the Christian Union believes that more is urgently needed in order to win this battle, in expertise, in manpower, in finance and from different ministries. We strongly encourage the Cabinet to take these steps. Mr. Chairman. Despite all the misery, it is important to note that the Netherlands was in good shape in many areas before the crisis and that the government and the medical world are currently doing an enormous amount of work, and are taking such good care of many Dutch people. Let's be grateful for that. I would also like to thank the Cabinet for all the efforts that have been made on this point. That applies not only to those who are sitting here, but you must convey that gratitude. Because about the commitment of the government, the medical world and all those who serve the public interest in this way, I say: it is a basis, through which we can get through those uncertain times and face them with some confidence. At the same time, we do not know how long this period will last and how deep we have to go. That will require a lot from all Dutch. I hope and believe that we can all, including in this Chamber, take the lead in this matter in a good way. Because what kind of society we want to be, we can already show here, in what we set out, what questions we ask and what debate we have. It is a privilege to live in a country where peace and justice prevail. Let us use it in the best possible way, to arrive at a good course in uncertain times. The Group of the Christian Union, and I myself, wish the Cabinet and Chamber wisdom and God's blessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I would like to give the floor to Mr Kox, who will speak on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. May I begin by thanking you for the fine words of just now? It is 75 years after the return of this free parliament, after five years of occupation and freedom. I particularly thank Laurens Dragstra for his impressive book on this largely unknown history of this Parliament. I would like to thank all those who contributed to the release of this country after five years of occupation and all those who, to this day, contribute to its freedom and freedom. Whatever is wrong with this country, I am delighted to be able to function as a free parliamentarians in this free country. Today we are discussing the budget for next year with the Prime Minister, who is in the Tower this year for ten years: congratulations. We are also discussing the budget with the Finance Minister, who is supposedly willing to take over that place in the Tower, against any reasonable offer. But for the time being, they're defending this budget together, shoulder to shoulder. Careful, of course, keep your distance. Mr. Chairman. That budget is special. She has an unprecedented shortage and unprecedented public debt. That's a big break with the past. Three Rutte Cabinets, precisely in order to put the budget and debt in order after the financial crisis, kept wages low, marketed care, locked social workshops, blamed students with a loan system and stripped of social housing with a landlord's levy. The rich budget was in order and the public debt was low, but ordinary people were much short and, in my opinion, society was much short. Now our country has unexpectedly fallen into a new crisis due to a real pandemic. Again, we're in heavy weather. Fortunately, however, the Minister of Finance is now saying that he has deep pockets and will do whatever is necessary to combat the crisis. And the Prime Minister, who for ten years was in line with the neoliberal vision of "more market and less government," wants a strong government now. It seems that no one now seems a good idea for ordinary people and society to pay again for the cost of this new crisis. The differences are getting smaller, according to colleagues Knapen and Rosenmöller. I can see that, too. This change in political thinking warmly welcomes my group. Mr. Chairman. We are pleased that our national planning agencies also say that this corona crisis calls for great political choices. Putting out the corona fire isn't enough. In their view, the billions that are now being released must also be used, above all, to close the many gaps that characterise our society. These are the gaps between the low- and high-skilled, between flexicurities and permanent workers, between young people and the elderly, between people with and without a migration background and between the 1% richest, who already own a third of our total wealth, and the 99% other Dutch, who have to share a smaller part with each other. The closing of these gaps must be a priority, our planning agencies say. We think that is a very good plan. We have been saying this for years: do it more socially rather than even more liberally. Mr. Chairman. My group welcomes this budget's commitment to billions of dollars to do what is necessary. For example, companies that fall silent due to corona can still pay wages and keep people in service. For example, self-employed entrepreneurs do not have to collapse immediately when their work is failing massively. But what isn't can come soon. According to many, the crisis is far from over. That is why it seems wise not to break down previously invented protection structures again. As the pandemic expands, we can scale up better than scale down. What does the Prime Minister think? Mr. Chairman. While we have to close gaps, according to the Central Planning Bureau, the corona crisis increases the already existing socio-economic inequality in many areas. That's harsh. The health gap is widening. Lower educated people and lower paid people have been living shorter for six years and are now even more at risk of corona contamination. I am talking about Fatima and Ingrid, Henk and Mohammed and all those others who often do vital work for little money and have to work and live in bad conditions. They're gonna take the hardest hits again if we don't do something about it. The disadvantage of temporary agency workers, call workers andzzp'ers will also increase in corona time. They are the first to lose their jobs and lose their jobs when it comes to public aid. According to the CPB, their lack of negotiating power is reflected in their disadvantage. As the CPB said earlier, the flexibilisation of the labour market has been encouraged for many years in crisis times, the negative effects of the labour market are being distributed more unevenly. Now that we are not dealing with an ordinary downturn but with an sometimes total silence, those unequal effects are even greater. It is precisely the groups that have suffered the worst that are now even more likely to face financial problems and all the related misery. Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis also reinforces the effects of labour discrimination. People with a migration background often fly out first when things get tough and find the last job when things get better. The surcharge scandal at the Tax Administration has shown how you can be thrown into misery by the government on the basis of your last name and nationality. May I ask the Prime Minister what compensation can all these people expect this year? They've been waiting in our opinion for far too long. Does the Prime Minister agree? Mr. Chairman. The inequality in education is also increasing in corona time. The school lock-up has left children from families with little money and little living space extra disadvantaged, while they could suffer the least. What are we going to do about that, so I ask the Prime Minister, who is in front of the class every week and who knows what this is about. Mr. Chairman. Worldwide, the situation is much worse. While we are all affected by a global pandemic, international cooperation is lacking on all fronts, 75 years after the war, 75 years after the creation of the United Nations. The World Health Organisation, for example, is being financed in a crooked manner and thus severely hampered in the effective management of the pandemic. According to the World Bank, 100 million more people will end up in extreme poverty because of corona this year. Those who do not die of corona in those circumstances are still starving, in a world in which the 26 richest drown in their money and now possess as much as the poorest half of the world's population. Mr. Chairman. The OECD says that low income groups, for example women, young people, the self-employed and flexicurities, are disproportionately affected by the pandemic. That is why OECD leader Angel Gurría is now advocating higher taxes on private assets. When I asked him recently in a video meeting of the Council of Europe how to propose such interventions, he said that in the circumstances it is realistic to come up with radical proposals. According to the OECD, growing inequality has a negative impact on economic progress. Then I thought, "I have to pass that on to our Prime Minister and our Minister of Finance." Here's to it. In connection with this, I refer to the encouragement of Gurría to the government: be realist, trade radical. I'd better mention something. Dismiss an unmotivated gift of 2 billion a year to the business community and rather remove the landlord's tax. That's how you create jobs and build homes. You can help with a temporary rental stop tenants who are overly hard hit by the crisis. This room has been asking for it three times. It's time to listen, Mr. Prime Minister. I would like to mention some radical and realistic proposals. Increase the tax on profits and assets and make room to raise the minimum wage towards €14, as the trade union movement and more and more parties find. In addition to applause, give the heroes in the care a real structural reward for all their great work. Half the debts of those who cannot come out of misery without debt restructuring and therefore remain a burden to themselves and others. The Nibud is something like that. If the government makes this possible, the announced approach to poverty and debt issues can really take shape. Then we can also implement the firm commitment given to this Chamber this spring by the government to halve child poverty by 2030. Mr. Chairman. A radical but also realistic step, according to our group, could be that, given the circumstances, the government no longer behaves like a coalition government of four parties that still thinks it is in charge. The situation calls for the involvement of many more parties. However, anyone who wants to rule on behalf of many in crisis time must also open up to ideas from others. We want to support this government in doing what is necessary now, provided that the government gives us and others the opportunity to think and make proposals. What does the Prime Minister think? Mr. Chairman. Because we need more than less democracy in times of crisis, we need to make some improvements to our parliamentary system quickly. To make a correct referendum possible, all the excellent initiative Van Raak proposal is with us. In order to enable a right to return, our group now hopes to get a proposal from the government quickly, so that it can be dealt with here at first reading before the election of a new House of Representatives. If you can do that, I'll ask the Prime Minister. Finally, Mr President. At the end of February the very first corona patient was recorded in Tilburg. Now we've lost more than 10,000 countrymen. Their families are grieving. A lot of people got sick and many seem to stay sick. The social damage is colossal. More than 1 million people worldwide have succumbed to a virus we had never heard of a year ago. The pandemic has turned 2020 into a real disaster year. But at the end of my speech I would also like to remind you of the heart-warming solidarity that we have seen blossom throughout this year and the great commitment that all kinds of people make without failing, sometimes at risk for their own well-being and health, just because it is necessary. It is becoming increasingly clear: organised solidarity is the best response to this crisis. The Netherlands is far from a deep-socialist country, I say to the Prime Minister. He knows that himself. But our country could certainly use a major movement in that direction. Much more social rather than even more liberal, my group believes that the new direction should be taken. And you can. We now know from our own experience that if we really have to, we can put together a lot of resources and do a lot together. This gives new hope, especially in the fight against the other threatening catastrophes, the ever-increasing housing crisis and the man-made global warming. With only a part of what is now being released in corona time, we can really work on large-scale social housing and we can still achieve the climate goals set. And if we use the money we are spending now, especially sustainably, we will tackle multiple crises effectively at the same time. Every crisis, however serious, always creates opportunities. Let's have the guts to grab it. Be realist, trade radical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u5	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I call Mr Koffeman on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin with a compliment to the cabinet: it remains optimistic about the future in these times of great uncertainty. I know that the Prime Minister is always wary of compliments from the opposition. That is wise, because compliments on helmsmanship of course do not necessarily mean that you agree with the course and we are indeed not. But that doesn't change the compliments. Mr. Chairman. In the optimism that the Prime Minister exudes, something comes back from his Pamphlet of an optimist, which he published in 2008, when he advocated a route to a modern economy. In such a modern economy, he did not see room for stacking pigs together in megasthals and he advocated other energy solutions, other than fossil thinking. In short, in 2008, during the previous crisis, the leader of the VVD group set a very different course. I'm afraid it didn't come to that. We all know why not: The Netherlands is a coalition country where conflicting views and interests must become a unity of policy. Modern and independent was the aim and it became fossil and dependent on foreign raw materials and markets. But "never washed a good crisis" said Winston Churchill. In this sense, the corona crisis offers new opportunities as well as great uncertainties. But in the billions note, these new opportunities are not or hardly exploited. All recovery measures seem to focus on business as usual, on maintaining or returning to the old normal, which was actually not so normal at all. Is it normal for a small country like the Netherlands to export 70% of its agricultural production to be the butcher and milkman of the world? Former Minister Veerman said about this after his ministry: "The system has stalled. We import large quantities of animal feed, we export large quantities of pigs, chickens and cows, and the mess, 80 billion kilos of manure, we keep here." That was in 2007 and nothing has happened since then that has changed the situation. In fact, when it came to buying out pig farmers, the Rabobank was the leader of government policy, not to muck out the Augias stable, but to clean up the street. Professor Erisman put it this way: "Boers don't have a earning model. They are a earning model: from the Rabobank, from the suppliers of animal feed, from the leasing companies of their increasingly expensive agricultural tools." In short, farmers are stuck in the pit like mink in a very small cage. They can't go anywhere, they're hearing about new measures in the fields of phosphate, nitrogen, particulate matter, odour and noise pollution, zoonoses, greenhouse gas emissions and protection of natural areas, not because they're not good and not because the farmers are bad, but because they're playing ball of financial interests they didn't think of or wanted and now they're hanging around their necks like a millstone. Every day seven farmers, mostly agricultural family farms, stop. The only perspective the Rabobank offers is: swallowing or suffocating. Either you grow bigger, or you close the tent. That is precisely now, in times of corona crisis, no longer to be sustained. The crisis warns us, not to quickly go back to business as usual, to the old abnormal, but to escape from it. What we know is that plants have never caused a pandemic and that 75% of the virus threats of our time have to do with the way humanity deals with the animal kingdom. We humans make up only 0.01% of life on earth and we act like a deadly virus for that other 99.9% of life. We try to fold it all into our own short-term interests and put ourselves and future generations at great risk. The corona virus should be a wake-up call. Where we destroy nature and leave unnaturally large numbers of animals living side by side or on top of each other, there is a life-size pandemic threat. Q fever killed more than 100 people in the Netherlands and made thousands of people chronically ill. A quarter of Sanquin's blood donors appear to have been infected with the hepatitis E pig virus. Anyone who is hospitalized must sign a statement that they have not recently been in contact with intensive livestock farming, because we are afraid of multi-resistant MRSA bacteria. We literally deal with animals in a sickening way, where making money is the only justification. Corona has a mortality rate that can lead to a dramatic outcome in individual cases, but that we could survive as a society. But avian flu, H5N1, could cost 60% of all people infected if they were infected, calculated Professor Fouchier of the Erasmus Medical Centre. Such a warning should be taken very seriously in a country where 600 million chickens live and die every year, but there is nothing to indicate a different policy in that respect. That is difficult in the coalition: let's hope that corona blows over and that we can continue with business as usual. If we want to make use of this crisis for a fully sustainable future, not only for us, but also for future generations, then we will have to take this crisis seriously, now that the second wave of corona has emerged and a third wave is already being discussed in other countries. It is impossible for us to continue to support a fossil company like KLM with a multiple of the company's stock market value. How can you reserve more than 3 billion for KLM if the stock market value of all Air France-KLM has now evaporated to less than half of that amount? Can the Minister indicate how much the KLM shares are worth, which he bought last year for 744 million in violation of the rules? I'm very curious about that and it's easy to check. I'd like a response. The company is technically bankrupt and the size of aviation is currently shrinking to a quarter of normal. Then you can't pretend the old one could be reachable again. Or to speak to Floortje: Fly to the end of the world. That is less sensible in these times. While the cabinet is still mainly talking about money, the ice caps melt at a staggering pace. Certainly, this year's speech was not only about the entrepreneurial climate, but also about global warming. However, the political climate prevents the cabinet from taking action. We are talking today about a celebration budget in crisis time. Now borrowing is making money. We invest ourselves out of the crisis, similar to the stories of Baron of Munchhausen, who pulled himself out of the swamp by his own hair. It is incomprehensible that the cabinet lends itself to such a form of political marketing. It is not only the most expensive election campaign in history, but also the biggest election campaign ever with fully borrowed money. We are all getting a little bit more, but in the budget of the Royal House things are going very well. The fact that Princess Amalia will receive 1.6 million pocket money a year is a whole bag of money even in crisis time, not because of what she performs, but because of who she is, is indigestible. The salary increase for the King by more than 5% is not a reasonable salary development for someone who states that he is involved, but not infallible. That is why I would like to ask the Cabinet whether it is prepared to investigate the acceptance of incomes that differ from the Top Income Standards Act (WNT), incomes that are excluded, and also the indexation thereof. I'd like a response, and I'm considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. Our economy has taken the form of a house of cards. A pyramid game that can't go without a new inlay. In this sense, the billion-dance with borrowed money in this budget meets all the conditions to enter history as the largest ponzi scheme ever. No one knows the consequences, but money that's stupid makes right what's crooked is the unfounded expectation. The neo-liberal thinking of a small government and a large free market with virtually unlimited freedom and globalisation is now, on a large scale, calling for state aid, even by multinationals that have paid virtually no tax in our country, but are benefiting from our infrastructure. That's the world upside down. Mr. Chairman. In the thirteen years that the Party for Animals has been represented in this house, I have often seen the following reflex, both in other parties and in the cabinet: it is okay to talk about animals, but not right now. Since our foundation, we have warned against the pandemic threats arising from the way we deal with animals, nature and the environment. The steady reaction was that it wouldn't go that fast. Meanwhile, we are in the grip of a new virus from the animal world. Never before have animals had such an impact on our lives, on our economy, on our minds, our fears and on the measures to reduce that fear. Let's start worrying again about everything that really makes life worthwhile, about everything that doesn't threaten our future, but secures it. On a world in which the interests of the weakest are protected from the law of the strongest, where money is no more than a tool in our actions and not the essence of our policies. Let us learn from this crisis and start a transition towards a more plant-based and therefore animal-friendly society that offers the prospect of a happy life for future generations, without unmanageable pandemic threats. In that context, Mr President, I also believe that the bio-industry must be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u7	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u8	Mr. Chairman. Ten years of Cabinet Rutte. The last budget of this cabinet and perhaps also the last budget that this Prime Minister has submitted. Corona has turned everything upside down, including the budgetary policy of Rutte I, II and III. In the last year, the savings have been turned around, saving for nine years. Nine years of economy and then in one year the pot is empty again. I'd like to compliment the Prime Minister. Thanks to so much economy in the past, the first blows to the economy were taken and many households were saved a financial death toll. But, to some extent, the cuts have laid the foundations for the problems now. Think about the staff shortages and the capacity problems in hospitals. Corona couldn't be foreseen, but the current problems with additional pressure on care are. How does the Prime Minister look at that now? We know his image that vision is an elephant that takes away sight. I'm afraid this was one of his most clear statements. The Prime Minister is a guide without a tomtom, a tambour-maître without a staff. He's not in front of the band, he's in between. Where we come out, we'll see. Such an orchestra loses its way and so does the melody. The enthusiasm on the street then turns into booing, the happy march in a flute concert. I think Prime Minister Rutte is the most pragmatic Prime Minister we've ever had, although Lubbers could do something about it. D66 chose the pragmatism as a course when he was founded. For D66 Rutte has become the perfect role model: without principles, in everything reasonable and no idea where we come from. Can the Prime Minister explain to us why he didn't become a list leader of D66? He will say: yes, but Mrs Kaag already has them. Well, maybe they'll need it at the CDA later. A guide without course: that also turned out to be Corona. This debate is not about that, of course it is about yesterday. There is much to say about what has happened in policy terms. The point I want to make is that we did not get a policy where the various interests were visibly weighed against each other, medical, economic, social, educational and psychological, to name but a few. In fact, after reversing the treasury, fortunately, Minister Hoekstra, for the benefit of the economy, was mainly directed from the experience of hospitals. Even nursing care hardly came into the picture. Previously, we had the same climate scenario. In The Hague, a number of stakeholders sat at important tables. There was no room for those who disagree and those who are entitled to pay it all: the citizens. So the shortest deadlines and the most ambitious plans came on the menu. What about the Prime Minister? He looked away. All those who hoped for some more nuance, on a little more empathy with the household wallet looked in vain at the Prime Minister. He looked enthusiastically at so many plans, but a wrinkle of care for the living room was not there. Sometimes the Prime Minister seems like a bus driver who sits in the back of the bus himself. Then we're not getting anywhere. What's the ten-year harvest of Rutte? The image of society is not beautiful. The tone is louder, there is more cynicism and anger. The word "rage" appears in the newspaper ten times a day. Violence is increasing, both in organised crime and among young people. Whole neighborhoods aren't safe anymore. This is particularly terrible for older people, but also for young people, of course. Prime Minister Rutte, where were your initiatives? We still allow many refugees, but we do not have enough homes for them or for our own citizens. Scarce drives up the price. There are hundreds of thousands of houses too few. Housing shortage was a word from the sixties, but is now in use again. What happened, Prime Minister? We do build windmills, but there is not enough space for houses and there are more and more ecological constraints. Of course ecology is also important, but all these things do not go together. Now refugees are in shelters for years and young Dutch people are not sheltered anywhere. Where was the Prime Minister? The Netherlands is one of the most active narcostates in the world. Mr Knapen spoke about it in detail this morning. In rural areas there are invisible production sites of party drugs. We import and export billions of dollars worth of drugs. Meanwhile, we continue to romanticize its use with coffeeshops and nitrous balloons. It looked like the Leidseplein in Amsterdam sometimes fairground with all those colored balloons and the authority that looked at them smiling. Prime Minister, what the hell are we doing? Then international. We had enough money, but the NATO 2% standard for defence is still too much to ask for. There is a great deal of division in Europe. Instead of the Netherlands becoming a reconciler, we polarize. What's in it for us? Why, Prime Minister, do we not assume the responsibility that suits us internationally? That means paying for what you agreed on in defense and bringing together parties as constructive strength instead of crowing the resistance. Do you have a view on this, Prime Minister? Mr. Chairman. Then the pensions, I'm afraid I can't avoid it. Minister Koolmees has made an agreement, but no one knows what the results are. For the years to come, the dark clouds of discounts are hanging over the heads of 3 million pensioners, which is absurd, unnecessary and unjust. Look at the vision I was allowed to put on the table on behalf of 50PLUS for years. For workers, fortunately, the necessary steps have been taken in recent years to strengthen purchasing power. Not only did tax relief, but most collective agreements also improved considerably, although the crisis has reduced it again. Almost all older people have been seeing their purchasing power decline for years, even because the elderly discount is barely increased. Worse still, they are offered no hope and no perspective. The thunderstorms of reductions in pensions are getting darker and lingering longer and longer. My group does not think these reductions are acceptable and calls for indexation to begin. I'm considering a second-term motion on this. The delay in indexing must also finally be paid out. This is good for the economy and for tax revenue and it does not cost the State and the Minister of Finance a penny. On the contrary. I urge the Prime Minister to take the initiative now and to show that he wants to be the patron of all those people. There are now 3 million people who have made an effort and who now have to wait and see how society treats them. Please at least have a vision for those people 50PLUS is so concerned about. It was known that the introduction of the new system would take a long time. This does not happen until 2027, five years after the introduction of the new Pension Act. That law will not be filed until mid 2021 and will have to be in the Official Journal by the end of 2021. There is still a big open end and nothing has been agreed on the transitional period until 2027. Transitional rights are always very difficult, but in this case completely. Indeed, until 2027, the existing financial supervisory framework will continue to apply, with an accounting rate of 0%. Social partners now demand that there be a separate transitional allowance for pension funds. Minister Koolmees is prepared to do so, but only for funds that intend to move to the new system. The refusers come in the penalty class of 15% discount and large premium increase. I call that pure blackmail. Mr. Chairman. The 50PLUS Lower House Group has a better alternative to all funds. It is rapidly submitting an initiative legislative proposal for an accounting rate of at least 2% in order to avoid discounts and allow indexing. Finally, Mr President. Depth is the loss of the Tax Administration, once one of the most excellent services of the government: accurate, legitimate and careful. I myself was politically responsible for that service. It's been a pleasure. Now, 40 years later, he's almost totaled. It is precisely the service that has access to every wallet and to every cash box in society that needs to be oiled and reliable, including with the child allowance. In the deconfiture of the Tax Administration, the state was struck in its heart. For a subsequent cabinet, two Finance Ministers are Minister Hoekstra of Finance hears this, I suppose perhaps part of the solution. A thesaurial minister for monetary and financial-economic policy, and one for both the state budget and taxes. It is time for the portfolio of tax legislation and implementation at ministerial level to be represented on a weekly basis in the Council of Ministers. Finally, Mr President. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister a constructive response to our proposals. The voters will decide on the final report of this cabinet and of the Prime Minister. If the Prime Minister wants to move on, we are counting on a few more permanent points on the shore. You'll be safer on board with him. I'm very curious about the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u9	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Then I give the floor to Mr Schalk, on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u10	Mr. Chairman. If only we had an organ in this beautiful building. Then we could ask our chairman to improvise on the song he recently performed at Hour of Power. I'm now on my phone to hear the final chord of his improvisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u11	Mr. Schalk, that's both regulated and musically a matter-of-fact performance, from the well-known series emnw: once, but never again. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was actually a bit afraid of that, so I put the longer fragment on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram, so everyone can hear it. It may not be entirely correct, but I do not entirely agree with you on the other. By the way, you've already heard that the singing was 178. Of course, the Prime Minister also heard that. It's a beautiful interpretation. For those who don't have all the songs in their head, I quote the first lines: Rough storms may rage ♪ All around me ♪ ♪ All around me ♪ ♪ Night ♪ God, my God will protect me God keeps watch for my sake. This is a very fitting song for the year 2020, which will undoubtedly go down in history as the corona year. Some rulers will be regarded as corona ministers. Think of it as a nickname, because what a lot of work has been done. That can be said at some point. Of course, there will always be things that could have been done better, but the government can be better dealt with on attendance than indolence. By the way, it is striking that various measures today have a biblical origin. In the book Leviticus the laws for the people of Israel are mentioned. It is striking that quarantine was introduced there as well as mouth caps in infectious diseases. In the Bible that is called: the waving of the upper lip. But this aside. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats also has a few questions. They're not so much about everyday practice. That debate is taking place across the street. The First Chamber has its own role, more contemplative and reflective. That is why the demand for perspective is particularly important. Has the government reflected on its actions in the first phase of the intelligent lockdown? What are the lessons learned? How do we see that in the way we act as the second wave overwhelms us? And is there anything to say about the future perspective? There is also an observation about the atmosphere after corona first phase. The tension is coming out and we notice extra short fuses. Even in this Chamber of reflection there are occasional irritations, while we are called upon to lead in times of crisis with wisdom and tranquility. In society, this leads to violent reactions, protests, violence, riots. It's like everyone's breaking loose after such a time of lockdown. How does the government prepare for that if we could hopefully get out of the current half-lockdown again? I am thinking here of the Temporary Law measures covid-19, which we voted on today. When the House of Representatives passed this law two weeks ago, I heard in our group room in the Stadhouderskwartier the raging of the activists on the Square, who were surrounded by an army of policemen. The police indicate that such performances ask many questions of capacity, but they are tolerated because the right of demonstration is important. These rugged demonstrations can progress, but if people simply hold a peaceful demonstration near a place where unborn human life is destroyed, for example at an abortion clinic, it is forbidden. What is the government's reaction to this fact? Speaking of life and death, I noticed that, in a crisis in which everyone is fighting disease and death, an initiative law has been announced to be able to choose death for themselves, because life would supposedly be completed. Can the Prime Minister reflect on the next question? How does he see the development that is increasingly accentuated on self-determination, versus protection of vulnerable lives? Mr. Chairman. Another aspect of society's life was out of the picture, namely climate control. But the point seems to be back on the agenda. Everyone knows by now that we are running the risk that the climate law will prove to be unfeasible. That was to be expected. By putting a political objective such as CO reduction as a percentage in the law, we create our own Urgendas of the future. Moreover, we are faced with the European pressure of the Green Deal, which even provides for an increase in CO reduction from 49% to 55%. This is contrary to the Climate Law adopted here. How does the Prime Minister judge this? Does he agree with my group that the European Union should not interfere with our national responsibilities? Is it perhaps an idea to ask the European Commission to impose a reduction on regulation of 55% by 2030 and 95% by 2050? Mr. Chairman. Speaking of figures, I'd like to switch to finance. During the forthcoming General Financial Reviews, I will, of course, ask the Minister of Finance how it is that earners now pay almost seven times as much tax as two-earners. I ask the Prime Minister what he thinks of this absurd distinction. Another point: once I visited the Ministry of Finance and took a look at the treasury that is symbolic. A nice story from the minister is that the key to that beautiful coffin is lost. No one seems to know where that key has gone, but I now have the idea that it has been found, because the money flows from the stairs of the ministry. Understandably, because big money is being spent to smother the crisis and its consequences. Government debt is now rising to historically high proportions, towards 65% of GDP. Those are the cold numbers. Can the Prime Minister give an estimate of what percentage we are growing and what the limit will be for this cabinet? And when will someone in the Ministry ensure that the key to the treasury is safely stored? Or rather, what is the perspective for the coming years? What time are we going to build buffers again? Also important is the question of whether there is enough money left to meet all kinds of obligations under which our signature is signed. I'm thinking of the Department of Defense. What about the extra billions for defence in the light of the NATO standard? Is 2024 still feasible when we actually spend 2% of GDP on our security? What challenges does the Prime Minister see in international relations and how does he assess the situation in the Middle East? Is there anything more to be said about restarting formal talks within the Association Council for the modernisation of the EU-Israel Association Agreement? Mr. Chairman. Another element of security concerns increasing terrorism. The macabre decapitation of the French history teacher Samuel Paty clearly shows that the fight against Muslim extremistism must be stepped up. Also in the Netherlands. A simple example: up to seven times since December 2017, there has been an incident around the kosher restaurant HaCarmel in Amsterdam. Only now, in October 2020, the Public Prosecutor's Office finally declared last Wednesday that the unsub, whose name I do not even want to mention here, has a radicalisation process and an extremist ideology. How will the cabinet make an extra effort in the coming period to combat extremist terrorists and jihadism? Mr. Chairman. Here I also connect to our educational system. More and more attention is being paid to citizenship. Well, let the focus on citizenship be on the importance of the democratic rule of law rather than on all kinds of things that schools are now facing, such as the paid attention to imposed diversity brought about by groups in society. Mr. Chairman. Also reflection on our own functioning belongs in these General Political Reviews. After all, a lot of work has been done and choices have been made that asked for adjustments afterwards. The same was true of our own room. The first few weeks, in March and April, we decided not to get together. Fortunately, the work was continued, but without physical presence. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supported this line, but there was still a limit. In the booklet Words of Spurgeon, a well-known preacher from England, I found a striking story. It is about an extraordinary dark day in America, on which the sunlight seemed to disappear completely as a result of an eclipse. "The legislative assembly of the U.S. state of Connecticut was sitting just that day and when members saw this unexpected and incomprehensible darkness, they were overwhelmed by a general terror and dismay. Many thought that the last day, the day of judgment, had come, and in the distress some members suggested that the sitting should be suspended. When an ex-Puritein councilman from Stamford rose up and said that, as the last day had come, he wished to be found in his place and do his duty, and therefore he suggested that candles be brought to continue the deliberations." Mr. Chairman. Times are dark. But let us not sit down and do what our hand finds to do, at the place where God places us, in dependence on Him, praying for strength and wisdom. On Prince's Day, that was referred to again. Just that trust in God can help us. I started with the song Rough storms may rage. Well, that song ends with the following words: Favor of men, counsel of friends, Bitt're hatred of evil-doers, Height, depth, joy or mourning, Nothing robs me of God's loyalty. Mr President, if there was an organ here, I would ask you to play the coral. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u13	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u14	Mr. Chairman. 2020 is a year to quickly forget. This weekend, I had a long and serious conversation with my children, a fifteen-year-old daughter and a 12-year-old son, about what we're going through and about what's ahead of them. I told them that they are facing an uncertain future, that they must set themselves up for, and that they must prepare for a changing future. My daughter said, "But Dad, we already had a very bad crisis in 2008?" I told her this time is probably getting worse and she needs to learn how to deal with the new uncertainties. It's important to show resilience and resilience, right now. The best people to adapt to this new situation will come out of the crisis. It is terrifying to see how quickly the younger generation must now adapt and how they should switch to semi-digital education or no education, to the many lessons that fall out and to teachers who are sick and complete classes that are quarantined. But they're gonna get through it. It's not all trouble and torment. For example, the Chinese word for crisis consists of two signs: that of danger and that of opportunity. Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis is like an X-ray or an MRI scan of the Dutch system. The virus now reveals the underlying ailments of the Dutch polder model. I see the Prime Minister nodding in agreement. Apparently, he shares this diagnosis; it does me good. The patient looked pretty patented on the outside, but it turns out there's still a lot of things wrong on the inside. Unfortunately, the coronavirus does not seem very impressed by all the Dutch gepolder and gegader. The cabinet is endlessly coordinating with unelected mayors of security regions who no one knows and who have no democratic legitimacy among the people. Proactive and decisive policy is now required, but that does not seem to be the strong point of this cabinet at the moment. "Government via the rearview mirror" seems to be the motto, rather than a transparent communication that many Dutch people want. Mr. Chairman. It seems as if this cabinet sometimes operates hesitantly for fear of the reactions of the people. So we have actually ended up in a kind of negative feedback loop of mutual distrust. That's devastating, and we need to get out of that together as soon as possible. "Wer Visionen hat, solte zum Arzt gehen." This quote from former Chancellor Helmut Schmidt is Mark Rutte's favorite quote, I read this weekend in an interesting column by Tommy Wieringa. Vision, our prime minister shouldn't have any of that. But what is needed right now in this crisis is a new vision for the Netherlands. How are we going to adapt to the new global reality and how are we going to come out stronger? I haven't really heard that from this cabinet so far. Mr. Chairman. We have given this a lot of thought in recent times and I therefore outline a number of ingredients of what is now necessary in our view to achieve an effective reset of the Netherlands, a modernisation of the Netherlands which should have taken place long ago. First of all, there must be an economic reset. We need to survive in the short term, i.e. to cope with the loss of demand through corona by means of direct reduction of costs, especially for middle incomes and lower incomes. Then I don't mean the seasoning like now with a few tens here and a half a percent there. You can't even pay the increase in municipal taxes. We want a simple, clear and transparent tax system in which everyone knows where they stand. What we need now is a marshall plan for purchasing power, for middle income, for SMEs andzzp's, so that millions of people can survive this corona crisis. That's priority number one now. We also need to postpone taxes for SMEs andzzp'ers. A lot of people don't deserve anything right now and they can't afford it. Deferral will therefore de facto yield more to the cabinet than not to do so. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a topic that is becoming very urgent very quickly in the current corona crisis, about which I have been called all day and e-mailed by entrepreneurs, a topic that I have not heard before this afternoon: the transition fee. Entrepreneurs now have to reorganise because of the corona crisis and no longer have work for their employees, but cannot reorganise because they cannot pay the transition fee. But they can't afford the employees either. An experienced registry accountant said to me this week: if you included in the balance sheet the obligations arising from the transition fees for SMEs, a lot of companies would show negative assets at the moment and no longer be viable. In practice, this is a very big problem at the moment. What's the Cabinet gonna do about this? As for KLM, I asked Minister Hoekstra for the summer what plan B was if there was a second wave. I think we should quickly turn the KLM into a Dutch skeleton airline, which we unleashed from Air France as soon as possible and which we have maintained from Schiphol the international connections that are important for the Netherlands. I'm sure that's gonna be a loss, but that's a loss we're gonna take on. In the end, it will cost us less than new expensive rescue packages. Not everything I want to tell you here is gloomy. Let us not forget the other important engine of the Dutch economy: the port of Rotterdam. It is crucial for our economy. Almost 400,000 people work there. The port shows careful recovery in the third quarter. The Rotterdam harbor people hear less squeaking than others. They are used to prosperity and adversity and are able to adapt with flexibility and ingenuity to rapidly changing global realities. They are an example for the rest of the Netherlands. What is needed to get the Netherlands back on track is an impetus for entrepreneurship and innovation. We do this not by throwing away 20 billion of vague projects by Jeroen Dijsselbloem and associates, but by generic measures that are useful to everyone, such as stimulating work and enterprise through tax cuts, but also by reducing regulatory pressure and a more efficient government. Now our public administration costs as much as 84 billion euros every year. €84 billion each year, 11% of GDP. That is not being cut back, even if GDP is falling. That needs to be cut drastically, because the only sector that has grown in ten years is the government and the collective sector. Mr. Chairman. We are now going to move towards a more assertive direction towards the EU. We don't sign off on the cross anymore, as Prime Minister Rutte has for years. We no longer finance the megalomaniac Green Deal of Frans Timmermans with Dutch tax money under the guise of a corona recovery plan, but we look at: what's in it for us? This is what other EU countries have been doing for years. If it costs too much, we just use a simple word: veto. Mr. Chairman. I come briefly to the Job-related Investment Discount, the BIK. There's been a lot left to do. We doubt if the BIK is going to make a lot of extra investments, but it can work, provided that the time limit of the BIK scheme is not too long. If you keep it short, you may get a shift of investments that are made earlier in time. See also the experience with the WIR in the 70s and 80s, the Investment Schemes Act. The WIR eventually worked only in the last two days of its existence, when rumors arose that Lubbers would abolish him. Suddenly, entrepreneurs made billions of investments in order to be able to collect the premium quickly. They were gonna make those investments anyway. Mr President, I would like to make a few other points. An important ambition that we also have for the modernisation of the Netherlands is the modernisation of our 1983 Constitution. We have analysed why integration in the Netherlands is so difficult. We believe that one of the underlying causes is international freedom of religion in our Constitution. Also in the corona crisis we see this. Religious institutions are governed by different rules than the rest of the Netherlands. We find that unacceptable. That was conceived 100 years ago, but, as far as we are concerned, it is obsolete by 2020. We stand for a secular government, a complete separation of religion and State, and no privileges for certain groups based on religion, whatever religion that is. Believe as far as we're concerned, you do it behind the front door, not in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u15	I can't help it, but I believe in God the Father, the Almighty, and so on. That's the apostolic, indeed. And I'm in politics, so apparently you can also believe in politics. And, Mr President, I object to a constitutional right actually being set aside by Mr Otten. There are several exceptions made by the Constitution, for example for this Parliament, and we are trying to deal with them in a good way. 75 people are allowed to be here. That's what you have in religious institutions, for example, in the church. There may be more people there, because it is based on a constitutional right. It might be good to mention that as well. That is the old Constitution, but Article 6, for example, indicates that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u16	I certainly do not dispute that this is the case in the current Constitution. I merely put the idea of a constitutional reform in the modernisation battle that we believe is necessary in the Netherlands, in order to get the Netherlands back on track. We believe that integration will be promoted if special privileges for beliefs are no longer created. Whether it be your faith or another faith, whatever faith; we don't care. That's an ideal we're going for. That constitutional review is not one-two-three; it will have the necessary feet on the ground. Of course, the 1983 one also took a great deal of time. But you have to start somewhere, wondering what you'd like to make the country look like, if you're thinking, how can we modernise the country? This is part of it. But I have a lot more good ideas. I can let you hear them, too. But I'm not specifically concerned with corona, in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u17	I hadn't heard a good idea; I had heard an idea. But that's all that's left. We talked this morning, a little bit in a different context, about the Paste of Abandonmenthe. Our Constitution has been built over the centuries, and there are incredibly many freedoms in it. One of these freedoms is that we have here, for example, a Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in this Chamber, and a fraction of the SGP and many others. Another freedom is that we have freedom of expression, so I am very pleased that Mr Otten is expressing his opinion here; I am only fighting it. Fortunately, we also have freedom of religion, and I hope that we will be able to cherish it for a very long time to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u18	I will continue my speech. We also want more democratisation, a binding collective referendum, for which the first steps are now being taken in the House of Representatives, and of course, as in the rest of the world, we want to elect a mayor ourselves. As far as we are concerned, a modernisation blow should also be made with the administrative layer of the provinces. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps we should also replace the First Chamber with a constitutional court, which will review the laws in accordance with the Constitution. After a year and a half in the First Chamber, we have become rather sceptical about whether the First Chamber is able to do so; see also the scenes of the past days around the Corona Wars Act. We also want a new demarcation between the Head of State and Parliament: a ceremonial kingship by Scandinavian model, where, if there is a difference of opinion between the Prime Minister and the King, the King resigns and not the Prime Minister. This is also true in Denmark. We also want a form of generally funded education, according to French model, for all children in the Netherlands to modernise the institutionalized penitentiary, which originated from the school struggle of 100 years ago, when the Netherlands was a completely different country. We believe that this, with a strictly secular government, can promote integration. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a very difficult subject. What I think we also need in the Netherlands is fewer politicians. Even more difficult is that we want to pay them better, to attract better and different people than we do now. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the care. I said the following yesterday in the handling of Hugo de Jonge's emergency law. Instead of that miserable corona laws, had made an emergency law whereby the tens of billions that are deposited with the health insurance companies are now available for care. The money's here. It's just in the wrong hands. We can then pay the health care workers better, and the health insurance contributions and the own risk can then be reduced. At least that's what's gonna make it quick. Mr President, I will conclude. We're in politics to really change something. We would now like to begin with a necessary modernisation of the Netherlands. We're going for it. The future begins today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u19	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Finally, Mr Gerbrandy has the floor on behalf of the OSF Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got four points and a heart cry. Every speaker here today has talked about corona. We all know the implications and the personally affected families and people. Unfortunately, we haven't gotten rid of it yet, and this is gonna take a while. The OSF has supported all incidental supplementary budgetary changes. I did a little checking. There are 170 posts in financial accountability. You can't think of it that crazy. EUR 57 billion has been deposited in this crisis. That was accurate. It took leadership to do that. The two people I'm looking at right now, who are looking at me right now, I'd like to congratulate you for that. That's not a small beer. There's gonna be a lot more: 30 billion? This crisis is not over. The question of whether all this money is going to end well does concern me. I haven't heard that much today, but is there any control? Is it ensured that the support of our community remains there, because the money, the money, comes to the good cause? Fortunately, you do the same with accountants, the FIOD, and so on. Yet it is said: trust is good, control is better. That control is important, although it should not go crazy. Our former colleague, now Secretary of State, Van Huffelen said: control is good, but trust is better. That's a good adagium. Corona's approach was liberal, and I can imagine that. "17 million people, you don't prescribe the laws, you leave them in their value." But if it turns out that this change in behaviour is not entirely successful, I would ask the cabinet to be clearer and clearer now, while the problem is still present, and to have better communication. You know that. I supported the temporary corona law yesterday. That also gives you the opportunity to take action. How we're going to do that now, I'm not going to prescribe it, but it's important that that virus gets under it in the short term. It seems very important to me to get back to the old situation quickly and that people can meet again at Christmas and with Saint Nicholas. If there are soft healers, then maybe it wouldn't be possible. My first question to the Prime Minister is: would he consider what his plans are? Does he agree with me that you have to intervene rather forcefully? A change of behavior does not come on its own. Later on, we will see who is right in a parliamentary survey. I just said that the OSF supported the financial support. But there is one measure that is now available: the Job-related Investment Discount. The OSF is against that. The Council of State and the CPB are also opposed to this. We have learned from the law on investment schemes. You reserve 2 billion for the BIK. In my fourth point, I am going to propose a different use of the 2 billion. My second point is the finances of the municipalities. I haven't heard that much. Three-fourths of all municipalities have to cut back and have difficulty making budgets final. A third of the municipalities can't do that. The VNG, the Association of Dutch Municipalities, says: the situation is unsustainable. Domestic Government writes: "The frustration of municipalities is deep. There's rebellion here and there." How is that possible? I am talking about the decentralisation of the social domain. You know it all. Child care has passed to the first government, the municipalities. But I'm saying that that start was wrong. There was more need for care. On average, 25% has been cut back on that process. It can't be. Cabinet, look at Denmark. There are good examples. If it makes a system change, it's gonna put more money in it first. Then there's efficiency and then there's profit. Will the Prime Minister be able to answer these questions later? I can assure you that this will not be another financial debacle for the municipalities. Down the stairs, up the stairs. That was discussed last year. There has now been an investigation into the revision of the Community Fund in the social field. It's disastrous for small towns, disastrous. Towns up to 20,000 inhabitants per inhabitant fall almost €60. The large municipalities I won't call all of them.... are ahead of it more than €100. It can't be. Municipalities write to you. I read those letters. It's unimaginable and unacceptable. It's the first government. Folks, we can't do that. The Netherlands is not in balance. The money goes from east to west, from country to city, from small to large. Let me give you an example from a while ago, but then it is clear. For the power neighbourhoods there was bet at €400 per person. We had to, because there were problems. But now look at the shrinking areas: bet on €10 per person. That's not right. That's out of balance. I want you to have more regard for the regions. I highly recommend the Reason fan Fryslân of Minister Schouten of 8 October. What a fantastic speech from the cabinet. In it, our minister said, "Great job for the region." Your cabinet asked the other governments to come forward with proposals. I was mayor at the time in Achtkarspelen. We took part in the regional deals. That's fantastic. That's from the bottom. Then it's also important that you let go of business. I would like to mention a few examples that play in the periphery, for which I, by the way, also feel responsible. I'm talking about Groningen, about the gas. 20,000 jobs are going away. Strengthening the houses there takes at this rate twenty years, ladies and gentlemen. You can't do that. There is a fund in Europe. I support the Mulder/Dik-Faber motion of the House of Representatives, which says: go with the JTF fund of EUR 600 million, that transition fund, to the North, because we have had enormous benefits and we should come back for that. Although, in Friesland, Groningen and Drenthe, they're already working on that energy transition. The Lelyline was discussed last year. Then there are the Lower Saxony line and Heerlen-Aachen. You really need to look at that region. Oh, time. Mr President, I usually keep to my time. You know that, point three: basic income. Governing is forward-looking. Our Constitution states that every Dutch citizen must have security of existence. See Article 20. The Netherlands is still one of the most prosperous countries in this world and yet the differences are increasing. 1 million fellow citizens, Dutch, live in poverty. One million, ladies and gentlemen. Eight percent, please. To this end, a premium circus has been built up with discounts, exemptions, deductions and so on. In Leeuwarden, they have 63 opportunities to support people. It's beautiful, but it's sandy and beachy. Can we do this differently? Yeah, this has to be different. We always charge for paid work. But do you know what the largest company in the Netherlands is? Those are the volunteers. More than 8 million people are also going to do things voluntarily without getting paid. If that were to disappear, our society would be finished. Those people do that voluntarily. That's beautiful. Everyone does. I'm doing the same thing. The Nibud has looked at the question: is it possible to give everyone a basic income and therefore to abolish all supplements, deductions, levies and allowances? In the calculation of the Nibud, it is stated that the average benefit is 8%, minimum benefits on average 32%, moderate income 26% and double the rate of increase of 19%. Is this fake news from the Nibud? I hope not, and I don't think so. That is why my third question to the Prime Minister is: would you like to have a serious and thorough investigation into this matter? I'm thinking of an inter-departmental investigation or a state committee. I'm considering filing a motion. I'd read it to you now, but I'm out of time. My fourth point is the landlord levy. Last year I tabled a motion on the landlord tax. Then the Minister asked me to hold it because she had another investigation going on. The housing shortage has only increased in the Netherlands. Students, starters, middle classers, everyone needs solid, good, affordable homes. They're just not here. I am going through it quickly now, because you know what I want to say, but it will also have to be well-founded. Rental prices for social housing have risen by 26% over the last ten years. Did these people get 26% more pay? That is not the case. In the commercial rental sector, the need has increased 44%. One million houses have to be built in ten years. For 2013, the corporations built 35,000 social housing units. After 2013, that was half, namely 15,000. The landlord's tax costs an average of 2 billion a year. That comes from the corporations, where the people with the narrowest stock exchanges have to pay the rents. And they go to the Empire. 21 June 2020 has passed the 10 billion limit. Mr. President, I'm almost there. 180 housing corporations are no longer able to carry out their core tasks. That is why I think we should do something about it. The government's giving back 300 million now. Minister Ollongren said 1 billion in ten years. That's 100 million a year. Now there's 200 million more. That's 15% of what's taken. It's a cigar from its own box. BZK, Finance and Aedes have calculated that in fifteen years the corporations will lack 30 billion euros to build these social housing. In 15 years, 30 billion is 2 billion a year. That's the BIK amount, isn't it? Take cover? You have it right here. My heart cry...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u21	There is a limit to the flexibility of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u22	Yes, there is a limit, but you know I have the least time and we are not in the House of Representatives yet. So I have to use this time now. I'm gonna ask you another 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u23	You are already in your speaking time next year, but we are keeping up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u24	Good. A cry of hearts in relation to underage single refugee children from Greece. Our minister wired a million dollars. I would like to start with a positive approach, but we must be ashamed of the fact that we are solving this problem in this way. It is best lân fan the ierde, the best land of the earth, can it not accommodate 500 children in need? I find the cow trade with the resettlement quota astonishing. As far as I'm concerned, you don't even have to respond to it. It's too painful, but I want it said. By the way, thank you... no, that transition is not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u25	Mr. Gerbrandy, we really need to finish this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u26	By the way, I would like to thank you for all the effort, commitment and leadership. You have a hard job and you do your best for a hundred points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u27	Someone clapped; it's allowed here. Thank you, Mr. Gerbrandy. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I shall suspend the sitting until 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u28	The next item is the continuation of the General Political Reviews. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u29	Mr President, thank you. First of all, I warmly recommend the book War Light on Senators in the period 1937-1946, which I have just been offered. I've been able to browse through it for a while. It's become a beautiful book. Really, my compliments. The book contains an anecdote with which the chairman and I are extremely shy that our party plays a positive role: the "clap in the coffee room in 1966," in which Senator Jan Boss is confronted with someone he recognizes from the war, a senator of the Farmers' Party. He also appeals to him on their experiences in World War II, in which Boss was on the right side and Adams was not on the right side. Then he is addressed in the coffee room by Adams about what Boss said. The author of this book then writes: "He should not have done so, because Boss was unbearable. The blow in the coffee room, for which Senator Boss was not prosecuted, is the only known example of physical violence in the Upper House." This is one of the last anecdotes in the book. I would like to thank the Chamber very much for the detailed introductions to the Chamber. I was very pleased to see Mr Frentrop in the debate for the first time. I will also try to do justice to some of the comments. We have, of course, heard from Mrs Jorritsma about the initiative, together with Rosenmöller, which I might say something about. I found the Grundsatz speech, as I think the Germans call it, which Rosenmöller held, a very fundamental argument, very impressive. I did not agree with everything, I hurry to say, otherwise the parties to the right of the VVD say that I have moved to the left, but I am not. Nevertheless, I can still enjoy a fundamental argument. Mr. Knapen mentioned that if you marry the spirit of time, you can also quickly become a widower. Then I had to think about the man who said that who deals with a waltz with the past, dances in measure, but not in time. That was indeed a very wise remark. In my reply, I will certainly go into a number of comments he has made on Europe. It was very special, also as a historian, to be taken back to Sint-Michielsgestel. Mrs Vos of the Labour Party's contribution on racism, discrimination and other matters was also impressive. And then there's that beautiful Richard Attenborough movie she mentioned, which I highly recommend, even though it doesn't cheer you up. Fortunately, that man stays young forever and is an example that you can be very young in the nineties as well. Unfortunately, there are also 20s who are ancient. In any case, he is an example of a very young ninety. I think it is important to consider some of the issues that Mrs Bredenoord has raised. It focused on issues relating to corona and European cooperation in this area. I will try to answer the questions as well as possible. As a historian, I fear to have to confirm in the direction of Mrs Faber that the word'repopulation' really comes from Nazi ideology. Mrs Bikker rightly calls for attention to be paid to the long-term aspect of the whole Corona approach and also to the perspective from there to society in the longer term. Thank you to Mr. Kox for his great pleasure in my ten-year anniversary. That also evokes the need for more, I understand. As you know, I'm still thinking about it. Apart from that, he also had other comments to which I would like to go further. I will begin, challenged by Mr Van Rooijen for that, in order to outline that vision is indeed possible, but that I do not believe in an end point you will come out of. I more believe the journey is the destination and not the destination. I will try to say something about this in a moment. Then there's the beautiful new musical moment. Of course, that was not possible at all, but it was the President himself and so it was possible. I shall also, of course, deal with Mr Schalk's comments on the treasury and other matters. These are all very important. Mr Otten also asked for vision. I will, of course, try to respond to that. Mr Gerbrandy was right to point out that the approach to corona can only be taken if there is a strong change in behaviour, together with the measures we are taking, the instructions on behaviour and, of course, enforcement. That's definitely important. Finally, I would not like to forget Mr Koffeman. He raised a number of issues concerning animal suffering, animal welfare and climate, which will certainly come back to me in my reply. I would like to begin by commenting briefly on what that vision is of me and of the cabinet. Then I will go through the answer on the basis of themes. I will try and see if I can answer as many questions as possible before 6.30 p.m. Maybe we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u30	Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u31	I'm even here again. The Prime Minister's saying something about overcrowding. I have this term from the UN Department of Economics and Social Affairs, Population Department. That's what writes "replacement migration." That's where I got the term. I'd like to clarify that for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u32	Overcrowding comes from Nazi literature. The accusation that the NSDAP made to the traditional parties in Germany was that they forgot the importance of the classical German values and that when forgetting the classical German values there was a danger of overcrowding. That's why that's a term that's usually given to the Nazis. I am not saying that you are, but I thought it would be good to interpret that historically. Of course, such terms have their meaning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u33	I am very grateful to the Prime Minister for this explanation. The UN points out the same words. Did they move the Nazis to the U.N.?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u34	The term "population" comes from "Umvolkung." That's a term from German Nazi literature. That's where it started. Again, my thought would be not to use that term, but everyone naturally has freedom of speech to do so. In the context of purity, it seems to me wise not to use that term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u35	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u36	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. Will the Prime Minister then renounce this UN expression on resettlement migration? After all, it is a loaded expression.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u37	Every sensible person who has a bit of a historical sense, knows where the term "Umvolking" comes from, and "overcrowding" as a somewhat clumsy Dutch translation of it. It really comes from the 1930s from the circles of Adolf Hitler and the German NSDAP. That's just a fact. For this cabinet and also for me as foreman of the coalition, and then I come to the challenge put down by Mr Otten and others, it is essential that we realize that we as politicians have two important tasks: to ensure that the country remains safe and to ensure that there is an economy in the country that provides enough jobs. If you bring everything we do here back to its core, the essence is to keep the country safe and provide enough jobs. I would add that at a time when there is so much to do about our country and about values and standards, a third element that goes with it can only be the question of how we ensure that we defend more who we are and that the Netherlands remains the Netherlands. That first point of the jobs is, of course, linked to fair trade. How do we ensure that there is fair trade worldwide? How do we make sure there's a government that doesn't get in the way, but it's strong? One of the absolute realizations of this is for me personally and for my party, but I also notice with other political parties the revaluation of the government, especially as market master. A third element in the issue of jobs is: how do we reduce our dependence on others when it comes to our equipment, our energy supply? We've seen how important that is at Corona. I will go into safety in response to Senator Knapen and his points about Europe. Security, of course, affects the international dimension, but also, of course, national security. But certainly also internationally because of the great instability that exists internationally. In my opinion, the question of how to ensure that the Netherlands stays in the Netherlands is essentially linked with two things. Firstly, if we ask people from outside to integrate into this society, we may talk with some pride about who we are. This is a country with freedom of speech, freedom of religion, equality of men and women, gay and straight, white and black. These are essential achievements of our society. We should be proud to talk about this and let people who come from outside give us the opportunity to integrate instead of saying: find your place here. Talking more proudly about our values is part of it, but it also includes something else. I do not know who said it, I thought Mr Gerbrandy pointed out the 8 million volunteers in the Netherlands. Or was it Mr. Ottens? No, Mr Gerbrandy mentioned it. This country is an ideal place in our society. This inspiring connection arises from a country with free people who know what kind of society we form together. In this country, a very broad middle class forms the supporting group in such a society. That is the group that volunteers at the sports association, which reads the newspapers, which becomes active in political parties. We are, as we sit together today and so many millions of others. So we have this very broad, large group of people in this country, the middle class, and the people who get into trouble against their debt and appeal to the government as a shield for the weak. When we have that done, people are going to connect with others as social beings as a matter of course. Because they are going to connect with others, that leads to what a predecessor in my party, Frits Bolkestein, once called the inspiring relationship in society. Not from above, but because free citizens connect with others and in that way defend who they are, but also ensure that there is a firm arm around the shoulder of whoever wants it, from whomever wants it but can't, the people who can't come along and wider: ensuring that this country is almost literally worn. I'm gonna be able to finish the Reform Day reading next Saturday. I can tell Mr Schalk that I am extremely proud of that. That lecture is on the occasion of the fact that it was 503 years ago that Luther nailed his theories to the door in 1517. The lecture has the title Is a good life also a perfect life? I won't give away my answer to that question today, but the assignment I was given was: Is a good life also a perfect life? Against this background, I will address the whole issue of the inspiring relationship of our society. That's not an end point. I do not believe that we are on our way to some sort of point in history where the perfect Netherlands has been reached. That country is us, even today. It's a trip we're on. When making that journey you have to ask some very fundamental questions. I have heard them in many of today's contributions. Against that background, I would not be able to compliment the First Chamber more than to say that this was also about foreign affairs. Unlike some other places in the Binnenhof, where in a two-day debate on the General Reviews I had exactly two questions about abroad, there were so many here that I would like to start with it. Then there are questions about corona, both medical and social. Then climate, discrimination, housing market, care, education, justice. Then the whole economy and public finances, purchasing power, labour market and business. And the small section varia. That sounds like a lot, but it's not that bad. I shall begin with one final challenge that Mr Knapen has put forward. I'm just gonna get my notes on what he said. His question was whether we are doing enough to indicate the importance of cooperation in Europe. This also applies to NATO and the United Nations, but he spoke in particular about European cooperation, especially in relation to what is happening worldwide. I would like to say a few things about this, because for me personally, I have also thought for too long that European cooperation was mainly about the market and the currency. However, it is much more than market and currency. Yes, dutyfully we added that it is also a community of values. It really took me a while to realize how important that element of community of values is in combination with that market and that currency. That is precisely why Mr Knapen pointed out, namely the great instability around Europe: Putin, the situation with Turkey and how it reacts from there to Geert Wilders and to Macron. I have already said a few things in the media today; it shows how unstable the situation around Europe is, unfortunately, North Africa and also the predictability of the transatlantic link, which, as far as I am concerned, is the cornerstone of foreign policy alongside European cooperation. At times we see an unpredictable reaction from the US government that makes the transatlantic bond more complicated, less obvious and less predictable. Against this background, it is very important that we, as sovereign, proud country, work together with other countries in the European Union. And yes, that's more than a market and a currency. He took the emergency fund as an example; the resilience fund that emerged this summer from discussions between France and Germany. It is true that the Netherlands had hesitations and may still have a little bit left in the question of whether you are ultimately doing the best to support countries through grants, in addition to loans. What we have finally done, in the best tradition of European cooperation, is not to say that we are 'there'. We have asked ourselves what you can get in return that makes us all stronger, not the Netherlands individually. I wasn't interested in getting a little more euros out of it. I was concerned that we should ensure that we strengthen the European Union as a whole. In my analysis, the biggest problem in the European Union at the moment is the already distorted growth that is in danger of getting worse, between countries such as Germany and the Netherlands, rich economies and reasonably well-balanced public finances, which can invest massively in this phase of the pandemic, and on the other hand, countries such as Italy, Spain and Tunisia, I regret to say, Frankijk, which, because of lagging reforms, have much less power to do so. That's just gonna be squirrel. In this context, the idea of a one-off fund is in itself appropriate to ensure that money can be subsidised in order to make sensible spending. So what did we put up against that? That was the principle that you have to answer the question why these countries can't do it themselves. This is simply due to delayed reforms. In countries such as Italy, Spain and France, these reforms are mainly lagging behind in the areas of pensions and the labour market. We all know that these are the two biggest accelerators of economic growth. The deal that has now been made is: to get access to the grant money, you need to reform. The 2019 country-specific recommendations, which are very detailed, require a credible plan. If you do, but if you do not implement that in practice, then there is the emergency brake. If we can achieve that with a number of other countries and manage to do it, and some other countries think it is important to do so, and there is also a case to be built for itself, to say 'in addition to adding loans to the sovereign debt of countries, you should also see if you can do a piece of one-off subsidies in exchange for reforms', I think that is real. Then you achieve something that is essential for the Netherlands, and I think for the whole of Europe. That is because, in the end, we all have to put our own house in order, because that is the fastest route to a strong euro area and European Union. In the same context, Mr President, and then I am almost done with Mr Knapen...... there is the point of the seven-year budget. In the best traditions of Knapen himself, who, as Secretary of State for European Affairs last time, actually prepared everything to ensure that we did not pay more, I thought: I am acting in his spirit by making sure that we do not pay more. That's what worked. The Knapendoctrine has been working again. Again, we succeeded in this, just like he did in 2012-2013. He laid down the groundwork for that. Anyway, then, of course, the election came. I then worked on the basis of his excellent advance. May I say that here, Mr. Chairman? Now we have said again: yes, we must keep the payment, with inflation and economic growth, about as it was. We are already one of the European Union's "net-toast" payers. At the same time, we need to see if we can reform as much as possible within the budgets. Two budgets are then unspeakable. We know that. These are agriculture and the cohesion and structural funds. Unfortunately, nothing is possible there. Nevertheless, we have managed to spend significantly more money on innovation, connecting Europe, R&D wide, and what we would have previously called Horizon 2020. That is essential, because these are the funds that will benefit the Netherlands very much and ensure future economic growth. It is just that, and now it comes to a close, with the two things coming together from that recovery fund, it also went a bit towards the budget. We have said about that: that is weird, because that budget comes from the normal budget; why should there be a very big top-up on top of that recovery fund? It's quite reduced in size. This additional congestion has already been mentioned: when it comes, much more money goes from it to innovation, et cetera. Yeah, but that was money on top of the budget. So that wasn't entirely real. If you compare it to what it could have been, it's less. But if you compare it with the previous seven-year period, then there is now a considerable boost in all those things that are essential for the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Back to the core, while Mr Knapen walks to the interrupting microphone. Europe is essential for the Netherlands, for our security, for our economy. We are embedded in a strong structure with other countries in an unstable world, as a small country with high prosperity. We can't do it ourselves. That is the difference with Sweden and other countries, with, for example, a smaller banking system. We have a large banking system. If we had had the guilder in 2008 at the time of the crisis, with banks that had five times the balance sheet total of the Dutch economy at that time, I can assure you that the guilder had been speculated. We were very pleased that we already had the euro at that time. This is really different from, for example, Sweden or even Norway or Switzerland, outside the European Union, or Denmark within the European Union with its own currency. It is therefore essential, for both our security and our economic future, that we are embedded in a strong structure. And yes, I say to Mr Knapen, then you shouldn't be too crooked. Then we are really prepared to deliver the bucks for that. But on condition that each does his homework, reforms where necessary and puts his own house in order. That's actually the bigger deal we could make in July.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u38	That's good to hear. I remember the Prime Minister saying at the beginning of the House of Representatives that he was not sleeping under a downdeck of blue with yellow stars. Now I haven't read Petra the King's recent book, so I don't know if that's different with that down deck, but I see that an interesting process has taken place here in recent years, which I'm very happy with. In fact, I am concerned about the following. That's a bit of a lesson too, because I've wrestled with that myself. We have the culture in the House of Representatives which we discuss extensively on the eve of a European Council and then afterwards. There'll always be a lot of picket posts smashed in the ground. I am now looking at the last European Council. Then there were three things: it should not cost too much, innovation and do something about Poland and Hungary. In fact, the Prime Minister agrees with me on this point, and I would be confident that in the meantime you should travel to Brussels with the request to see how far you can get in that triangle, rather than hitting picket posts in one area and then, on the last half day of those negotiations, talking about those two other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u39	I don't know if that's what happened. I must honestly say that the whole question of the level of the budget and of the recovery fund was widespread in many countries. For the Netherlands in particular, it was important for these reforms to be opposed, so that in the long term you strengthen Europe and the south also does what it has to do, so that we can let this be a one-off. It is true, however, that Mr Knapen is right in saying that the whole discussion about Rule of Law, for example, did not start until Monday afternoon. We had already started on Friday with a summit that would end on Saturday. But it was Monday afternoon when we started talking about the Rule of Law. By the way, this discussion has lasted another six hours, in small rooms and in larger rooms. But Mr Knapen is right that at first the wallet set very much the first days. That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u40	I think so, but that is a discussion that may have to be held in the broadest possible terms once again, that with the whole culture of these chips in which we are making all these preparations, we often establish ourselves in such a way that the room for our chief representative, for the Prime Minister, to negotiate various things and to see where you get your benefit is so limited that we do not always get the maximum result, because we have to come home with that one thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u41	Yes. By the way, I always try to say in practice in the Lower House: I'm going to try this, I get sister, and we're going to try on that point, but I'm not going to commit to certain points. Nor is it in an association with 70 Member States to get exactly what you want at every point. Then it can be said: and if you don't, you have to use your veto. Yes, I am willing to use the veto all day long, but we all know that this is a blunt instrument, which also does not stimulate the Dutch interest. So once, but in practice it is always a bit of a search between the broad popular parties that form groups in the House of Representatives, and here too, and that ultimately also want to give direction to the policy. Fishes don't always help. They, of course, threaten to chess it very close. That is absolutely a risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u42	We got between our noses and our lips just a little bit of financial history lesson from the Prime Minister. He claimed that if we had not had the euro in 2008 but still had the guilder, we would have been in big trouble because we have such large banks. I would like to fight this for the record of this sitting, too, because you can also take another example. Switzerland also has huge banks vis-à-vis its economy and has also been hit hard in the financial crisis, but it is still doing very well with the Swiss franc. In fact, it gets stronger every day. I also had a question for the Prime Minister. You just outlined the great picture of the seven-year budget and the fund on top of it. I wonder if there is any money left from the previous budget of the European Union. Had they already spent everything, or did they have a hand that could have been used to support the economies of the more fragile countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u43	I think there is a little left, but they are not large amounts: the rest à liquider. Of course you keep moving a bit along, but they're not huge amounts. Everyone likes to spend what they thought they could spend. Well, that's what we're like. But it's not in the order of 390 billion. The whole budget for seven years is about 1,000 billion. The one-off emergency fund of grants is 390 billion. You could never have gotten that out of what was left of the pot. On the first point: it may be even more nuanced than I put it, but I do think there are fundamental differences between the Swiss economy and the Dutch economy. We are the third most open, internationally connected economy in the world, with Hong Kong and Singapore. If you compare that to the Swiss economy, that's really a different picture. Our large banks had a balance sheet total of around 3,000 billion in 2008. Against 600 billion national income, that is five times our entire economy. This is really different from Sweden, Denmark and Norway with their banking system, which has about once the economy's balance sheet total. If there were speculation against the guilder at that time, I am sure that we would have been destroyed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u44	I don't want to use any terms that might fall wrong, but we don't know. Shall we leave it at that? There are also countries with a really large banking system. Switzerland really has a very open economy, has and had huge banks and was really in the same situation as the Netherlands. Let us not say afterwards: thank goodness we had the euro then. Let us think about what the euro means now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u45	I lightly beg to differ. Of course, it may be a little less black and white than both of us are now saying. Then a number of your Members raised the question of the rule of law. At the moment, all the major political families in the European Parliament are working very hard to boost the texts. Not to regulate Article 7, which regulates the rule of law, now by means of a detour through the budget, but because, if you want to spend European money well, you need a number of constitutional elements, such as an independent judiciary, an independent execution, separate from politics, and that sort of thing. There were texts from the Commission which were quite good. In a German compromise proposal to get Hungarians and Poles, they have really been watered down. We voted against this compromise proposal. President Germany, the Commission and Parliament are now discussing what it should be. We can all help here by giving maximum encouragement to our political groups in Parliament to return to the original proposals as much as possible. For the gourmets: that is what is in point 3.2 with the concrete examples, and it is also true that the Commission can intervene not only if something goes wrong, but also if there is a risk of something going wrong. That is really essential, because this Rule of Law needs to be strengthened on various sides in a Europe where we are now seeing it under pressure in a number of Member States. Then there was the question about the passage in the Throne speech about equality of opportunity, whether it is also of European and international significance. Certainly, if I may read the solidarity between Member States. At corona we will come back to that in a moment, also in response to D66's question. But, of course, we have always made an active effort to contribute to the emergency measures through European cooperation. At the end of the day, solidarity between Member States is essential, but I also feel that responsibility is essential. I'm going back to the combination that comes with subsidies that you reform first, so you can solve it yourself next time. I'm very glad you did. Then: will unanimity continue to apply to European decision-making on taxation, on the basis of the Leijten/Lodders motion? We remain opposed to adapting unanimity decisions to tax matters. Perhaps my speech shows, I say to Mr Frentrop, that I am not immediately inclined to swallow everything we agreed on in July. He asked a question about that. Then the Green Deal. We in Europe are going to try to make sure that we move together to 55%. Initially 49% was the intention. The Netherlands has said that we should actually reduce to 55% by 2030. That is also in line with the coalition agreement. But we are not going to do that alone, because it would, of course, cause economic damage if neighbouring countries did not do it. The good news is, of course, that there is a Commission proposal for an increase of 55%. That is what we are going to do nationally. The climate agreement is therefore going to have a top-up here to 55%. But that's okay, because it's happening all over Europe at the time. So you have no competitive disadvantage compared to neighbouring countries. Once again, the European Union must not interfere with our national responsibilities. The strict application of the principle of subsidiarity is essential here, I say to Mr Schalk. Mr President, there are still a few questions about matters outside Europe at international level, but these were the questions about Europe itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u46	I have a question about the recovery fund. I have checked the coalition agreement Trust in the future. Section 4.4 deals with Europe. There is literally "I read it for a moment" "The joint financing of debts of EU Member States is undesirable. The EU should not become a debt community. Leading the cabinet is therefore that no further steps are taken towards a transfer union, not even by introducing (forms of) Eurobonds."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u47	That's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u48	Now, in July, when that recovery fund was announced, President Macron said that it was a premiere that common European debts were incurred. A "premiere" called it Macron. And the French have clearly said what it is. We, as European Member States, all guarantee this common debt, and the Netherlands, with its triple A rating, of course, is relatively strong. That is therefore contrary to the coalition agreement. Who's right? You're saying it's not true. Macron says it is. All financial analysts say it is. The financial markets assume that it is. How about that, I'll ask the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u49	No, for the Netherlands, a premiere is a female prime minister. This is not the common cause of debt, because every country does it itself. This is done in the same way as the EISF was financed in 2010 and in the same way with which the SURE Employment Fund was financed in April. We do that all the time. It's a one-time thing. They are national guarantees, so they are not common European guarantees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u50	Then I'd like to ask the Prime Minister how. Of course, a lot of money has been spent under this programme. This is triple A-rated, by all rating agencies, while only a few countries in the EU have that rating. Most of them are much lower-rated. But the market assumes that the large, solid countries that have a triple A rating, such as Germany, Sweden and the Netherlands, will guarantee the weaker countries, such as Italy, Spain and so on. That is the reality and that is the market. So I ask the question again, because I don't get a good answer. "A premiere is a female prime minister." Yeah, I don't think that's very relevant. As far as I'm concerned, the Prime Minister is a transgender; I don't care. The question is: who is right now? And I think that's Macron.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u51	No, I'm right. And why the triple A? Because the collateral for this is the European budget. The European budget is guaranteed. Those 1,000 billion for the next seven years will be there, so the markets assume that the collateral is there. That's the reason for the triple A.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u52	Finally, Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u53	Yes, and that European budget comes from the Member States. And who's the netmost payer? I just heard the Prime Minister say that again. That's the Netherlands. And by now, we are much more the netmost payer than when we discussed this last time in the General Reviews. So in the end, we'll guarantee it through the back door.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u54	It's two-and-a-half. Either we are collectively guaranteeing that pot of the restructuring fund. And it's not. We guarantee our own piece. Then why triple A? Because ultimately the European budget is, of course, the fallback for the financial markets. That budget's just there. Since 1956 there has been a form of European budget and sometime in the 1970s these seven-year budgets have been created. So that's what's been there for decades. That has nothing to do with common debts. We're against that, too. So it is not a form of Eurobonds. The fact that the French President sometimes sees things that he thinks might be an over-achievement to an even bigger French vision also fits the French system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u55	The last interruption, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u56	I understand that Mr Macron is wrong. That's the conclusion I'm drawing from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u57	What Macron stressed, in my opinion, is that it is unique in such a crisis that Europe is willing, albeit once, to provide such a great help to countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u58	The Prime Minister went over Europe's taxes so quickly. He tipped it off for a while. I asked a question about that. We have a right of veto there. I asked questions about the BNC sheet on the European Green Deal. It said that the Energy Taxation Directive would be amended, including the proposal to decide on it by qualified majority. Your colleague, Mr Blok, always avoids my written questions, so I ask the question again, just to clarify. You went so fast. I couldn't understand it so quickly. Are you or are you not going to give up the right of veto in this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u59	That's the answer I gave. We maintain unanimity on taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u60	I found it remarkable in a positive sense that you said that you had taken more and more of the values in the European community. Now that the United Kingdom is leaving the European Union, I have the following question. In the international press you read and hear that people are looking at the Netherlands as a country that is now, with France and Germany, in a somewhat different, important position. Could the Prime Minister say something about that? I am referring in particular to two points. To what extent could he act as a broker or connector? In addition, I sense something I like to endorse. There's an tent with France. You might even speak of a beginning of a Dutch-French axis, next to the Dutch-German axis. Can you say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u61	I am of the Europe of many axes, in our interest. It is in our interest, both economically and in terms of security, to be embedded in Europe in this strong structure in an unstable world. In that context, of course, you are trying to promote our national interests as much as possible. For example, with the French, we have reached a joint compromise on state aid in relation to international trade. That is where we actually bridged the gap between the French and the Dutch positions. It is also the European compromise. We also work with the French in many other areas, for example in the area of climate. Together we argued for the 55% target in Europe, provided that we were all going to do so, or at least the larger Member States. With the Germans, of course, we also have a very close relationship on many subjects, especially with regard to the euro. But we are also working with many other Member States. Of course, we have cooperation with the Baltic States, the Scandinavian countries, the Benelux countries and Ireland. Slovenia also belongs to the profession. This is also a group of countries working together on all kinds of issues, especially when it comes to the euro and the ECOFIN meetings and in my preparation for European Councils. So we work with a lot of countries because there isn't one axis. The French-German axis is often mentioned. Of course, if they agree, that is relevant, but the Netherlands is still out of 27 the fifth economy. After us the Belgians come, but at a great distance. We're not a very big player either. We are much smaller than the French and the Germans, but we are much bigger than many others. The Netherlands is one of the founders. So we have all kinds of reasons to try to take that position. That's nice to do, but you don't do it for that. You finally do it for the Dutch interest. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u62	Behind my question was also whether you noticed with colleagues that the Netherlands took a slightly different position as a result of the departure of the United Kingdom. Does that give you the opportunity to perhaps play a new, binding role? I believe that this is also in the Dutch interest of all the differences that exist in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u63	I can see that. After the United Kingdom, we are traditionally seen as one of the most transatlantic-oriented countries. We are traditionally highly oriented towards Canada and America. For me, this transatlantic link is really the second cornerstone of our foreign policy, alongside the strong European cooperation. That's one of the reasons I always say two things in Washington. The first is: use us as a gateway to Europe. Of course, we are much smaller than England, but we are the most transatlantic. Use the Netherlands to understand what is happening in the European Union. We can point that out. We can help with that, too. We can build bridges. Then the second. We will be discussing NATO expenditure in a moment. We must be careful that America does not think that NATO is there as some kind of historical obligation after the Second World War. This NATO is there because it would be very damaging if Russia were to have great influence in this part of Europe, not only for us, of course, but also for American interests. NATO in Europe is also forward defense for the Americans. That's the kind of dialogue we have with America. We are trying to be that doorway for the Americans to Europe, at least that is our ambition. They make their own choices, of course, but these relations are excellent, also with Donald Trump's government. And within Europe, of course, we are the classic voice of free trade, of international orientation and of the Europe that can take pride in acting on the international stage. People also look at the Netherlands when it comes to such subjects. But apart from pontificating on that, I find it particularly interesting to look at those who are traditionally the furthest away from us: France. With this President, we are now able to make joint agreements on a number of occasions, and these are the European agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u64	Mr. Van Rooijen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u65	I just wanted to say something. You mentioned a number of blocks in Europe, including Spain and Italy. I have a bit of a weakness for Spain, and also for Italy, but Spain is, of course, a very large economy. I think it is quite underestimated, also by the modesty of the Spaniards. The Spanish do not have as high a tone as the Italians and have also reformed more. How do you feel about that? Is Spain not a country with which you can do business, as is the case with France today?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u66	Sure. I was in Rome in January of this year, and if it all goes on, if it all works out, maybe in December again. We have intensive contacts with the Spanish government. This also applies to Wopke Hoekstra and to Stef Blok, the Finance Ministers and the Foreign Ministers. We really do. And, of course, in the crisis of 2011, 2012 and 2013, Spain has really tried to intervene firmly in the national economy. They are in that respect more northern than we sometimes think, where you just thought about Italy: boys, can you get a tooth? At the moment, by the way, you see something in the current Italian government. They are taking more self-confidence away from the populist forces in Italy and are now taking really big steps, with reforms that you would say should actually take place in the field of pensions and the labour market. That's my expectation. So I call France and Germany; relations with Spain and Italy are also very important, and with Portugal. Interesting, isn't it, that Portugal and the Netherlands are very close to each other culturally. Between The Hague and Lisbon, there are not many cities of this size that lie by the sea. Portugal, too, is of course seafaring, outward-looking and trade-oriented. If you work with the Portuguese, you will find that they have a great influence on the Iberian Peninsula, and in that part of Europe anyway. For us it is a very attractive partner, and Spain certainly is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u67	Please continue your speech, but first Mrs Bredenoord will speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u68	I very much welcome the Prime Minister's enthusiastic story about the cooperation he mentions within the European countries. He also repeatedly mentions France and Germany. Yet this spring we have become known throughout Europe as part of the dreary four, almost as leader, of that resistance. So I was wondering, can I see from your story that we are actually going to be part of the constructive three, and that you are indeed going to lead the way, together with Germany and France?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u69	We're not part of one group of countries, really. The Netherlands has too many interests to work with a few regular friends. We must work well with all countries. With the Germans, this cooperation is excellent on a very broad front. Macron is, too, because you see that we are able to agree on many points between this government and the current French government. This is also the case in cases where precisely those French-Dutch compromises are also the European compromise. But what we did in July was essential. If we had done in July what some people on the other side of the Binnenhof had suggested, namely, to go into bumps with France and Germany, we would never have been able to force countries, in exchange for subsidies, to reform in areas where they have been lagging behind for years and years and years. This is essential for the future of Europe; it is essential for the future of the euro area and for a stable currency union. There is now a distortion of growth and lack of competitiveness in Italy and Spain. You can throw a lot of money into that again and not force it "in return for that money you need to reform your pension and labour market." But if we hadn't done that, and again, there were real forces that said, "Just agree with the French and Germans and don't go any further," then we wouldn't have done Europe any good. So you just have to keep your foot stiff. I did that for four nights, and I'm not proud of that, but it was essential. And I was willing to do that, too, everyone knew that to break it on top of it. I said we're not gonna do it if this isn't up to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u70	Mrs. Bredenoord, your second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u71	You can certainly support the need for reforms, but I believe that something has happened which has given us the reputation of being one of those nasty four throughout Europe. The question then is whether you can indicate why that happened. How could that possibly be different, even in terms of external imaging?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u72	At this point, we were alone. The nasty four, as they were called, or the economical four or the sensible four, were mainly looking at the level of the budget. They said we want to keep our discount. That's what worked. After inflation and economic growth, the Netherlands will not pay more than last time. We'll keep our discount. Net we do not fall a penny after inflation and economic growth, in the normal MFF budget. In the recovery fund, we were the only country that was so keen on the demand for reforms and this emergency brake. None of the other sensible four wanted me to. That really was a Dutch fight. I can assure you of one thing. If we fight with 4% or 5% of the European Union and do so with a very sweet voice, it will not work. You're gonna have to pop it once in a while. The special thing is, of course, that this does not harm relations. Everyone understands that you're not sitting there with permanent friends, but with permanent interests. That is, of course, also the European Union. So we should never be afraid of that. You will never get anything done if we immediately agree with everything the French and Germans have invented because we think: oh, our reputation. I'm not afraid of that. There are still a few points that relate to matters outside Europe. Questions have been asked about the Middle East. Unfortunately, it remains, of course, unstable and worrying. We see Iran's role in neighbouring countries and in the region, Iran's nuclear agenda and the terrible humanitarian situation in Syria. However, I should like to mention the following recent developments in history. These are the American agreements between Israel on the one hand and Sudan, the UAE and Bahrain on the other. The Israeli Prime Minister flew over Saudi Arabia, which I believe was the first time in history. Following the agreements with Egypt and Jordan, Israel is thus coming out of regional isolation. We all know, of course, that Israel has been responsible for stability in that region for decades. Egypt cannot protect the Sinai itself, and Israel has been doing so for a long time. That actually applies to the whole region. It is good that it is now visible in those relationships, and we welcome that. Moreover, we are one of the very few countries in Europe that maintain good contacts with both Israel and the Palestinians. This is because we have always chosen not to bring that proxy war to the Netherlands, but have actually started working on good contacts with both the Palestinians and the Israelis from 2010 onwards, building on the policy initiated by the Cabinets-Balkenende II, III and IV. We are one of the few who are currently in contact with both and also provide for very practical cooperation issues, for example on border traffic between the Gaza Strip and Israel and between Israel and the West Bank. That also raised the question about the Association Council. We are in favour of restarting these meetings. We are also in favour of this within the European Union. We have a lot to offer each other. This can also contribute to the strengthening of relations. There are differences of opinion in Europe. There is a need for agreement between Member States on the timing and the declaration. The EEAS, which is the European foreign affairs service, is now examining all kinds of possibilities for achieving this. Soon Stef Blok will inform the Chambers of the state of play. As things stand at present, our defence expenditure amounts to about 1.5% of GDP. This means that in order to comply with this NATO standard another 5 to 7 billion is needed towards 2024. That is our objective, and that is also the agreement we made in Wales in 2014. So we have taken a big step forward with this cabinet. At a next formation, in 2021, there will be a next step... That is my political view, but I would think it would be obvious that this would happen and that a further major step would be taken. Then I come to the European Commission's migration plan. I think it's good that it's there now. Soon, hopefully at the beginning of November, the Chamber will also receive the sheets on this subject, with the cabinet's position on the overarching communication and the sub-proposals. We think that the Commission has listened carefully to the Member States, looking through my eye hairs. Good handles are provided to gain more control over irregular migration. We want to put things in order throughout the whole chain, i.e. in the asylum procedures, in the management of migration in the Member States and in the safeguarding of human dignity. The primacy of negotiations and decision-making is likely to lie with the JHA Council, i.e. the Justice and Home Affairs Council, the J-Council. We are, of course, actively looking at which Member States we can work with. I will certainly be happy to make a contribution to this myself. Mr Frentrop asked: can you temporarily stop immigration? That is not the intention of the cabinet at the moment. I have taken note of the suggestion with respect, but that is not the intention of the coalition now. I have a few more questions, but I see Mr Schalk standing. Whatever you say, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u73	Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The speed with which the Prime Minister passes on a number of issues and the delay in putting on a cap first mean I have to go back to the association agreement. I have heard the Prime Minister say that Minister Blok will inform both Chambers about this association agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u75	It doesn't say that here, but we're gonna do that now. They're listening to you. I'd like to go to both rooms.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u76	Thank you. Then I heard right what it didn't say. Thank God it's here by now. Secondly, on defence expenditure, on 2% of GDP. That's a very old date. I went into that last year. Then the Prime Minister said, "We'll have it done by 2024." But now I hear him say: we are still striving for that. There's a huge amount of money going to other targets right now. But how am I supposed to interpret it? Does the Prime Minister think it's gonna be okay by 2024? Or is that what the next cabinet is about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u77	The agreement in Wales is that we are all working towards and striving for 2% by 2024. I never said it was a hard commitment. I can't, because I just don't have the room for that politically. If it were up to me, it would happen, but there is, of course, something like the coalition and how we look at it together. This cabinet is taking a very big step. The horizon is March next year. A subsequent coalition agreement will take the next steps, I expect, depending on who and which parties are at the table. But if Mr Schalk's party and my party were there, I think it would be more likely to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u78	But in other areas, we also make agreements that go far beyond the cabinet periods. Think, for example, of a small thing like the climate, where a lot of money goes to. Surely the aim should be that the agreement we made in NATO should be commonplace by 2024?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u79	Yes, that is also the Van der Staaij motion of the group chairman of the SGP in the House of Representatives. It says something like that, which Mr Schalk repeats here. I believe that it has been adopted with broad support. So we all strive for 2%, but the proof of the pudding is of course at the moment it stands in front of you. If it's a watery dripuddink, that motion hasn't been carried out. But I can't guarantee it here right now. That really depends on the next formation. But we have taken a really big step. We are getting a little bit helped by the shrinking GDP now, while defence spending is not shrinking. That's why we're growing a little faster to that 2%. But of course it wasn't the plan to do it this way. But that is the disadvantage of those percentages compared to national income.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u80	Finally, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u81	An important philosopher once said: every advantage has its disadvantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u82	Yeah, exactly. Not a strong story of mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u83	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u84	Dan Moria. To this end, the European Commission is looking at how best to fulfil the commitment of the various Member States. The Secretary of State for Justice and Security, you know, is in close contact with her Greek colleague. The commitment is to ensure that people are transferred to the participating European Member States as soon as possible. That is not the case at the moment. Hopefully that will happen soon. However, almost all single underage foreigners have now been transferred to the mainland rather than to Lesbos. The same applies to other vulnerable groups. Then there was one final question about Morocco. This is one of the priority countries in terms of return. Returning is difficult. Until September, approximately 90 Moroccans were forced out: 70 deported from foreign detention and 20 from criminal detention. The 70 involved forced transfer, in most cases on the basis of a Dublin claim. About ten have been forced back to Morocco. As we all know, this has been discussed more often, and the relationship with Morocco is complex and versatile. It is an important country for us to cooperate in the field of migration. We are trying to invest in the dialogue and to frame it in a broader bilateral relationship. There has not yet been a political meeting. There are of course many contacts at execution level between the Return and Departure Service and Morocco.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u85	I had asked the government how many of the 100 people who were allowed to come to the Netherlands from Moria are now here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u86	I replied to that. There aren't any at the moment. We hope as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u87	What's "as soon as possible"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u88	I can't tell you that, because that really depends on the Greeks. There is intensive contact under the coordination of the European Commission. It coordinates the commitments of all Member States, including the Netherlands, to take over vulnerable persons. For the Netherlands also bilaterally Ankie Broekers-Knol, the Secretary of State of JenV, is in contact with her Greek colleague. We are not entirely in control of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u89	You understand that's very frustrating. It's getting colder and wetter. It would be nice if they were here as soon as possible. We do not have it entirely in hand, but I think we can speed it up a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u90	Almost all single, underage aliens love Lesbos. They're on the mainland by now. So it's not like they're in the mud right now. But it is, of course, a commitment that we have made and which we want to implement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u91	Mrs. Fox, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u92	That's what I'd like to do before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u93	Yeah, but it takes two to tango. I do not think it is on the Greek side either. I think it's just complex, because every country has, of course, set conditions for the people who want to include it about the numbers, ages, etc., etc. I expect that's gonna make it harder. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to corona and a few questions along the medical angle. After that, it's more about social effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u94	I had the same thing. It's happening so fast, I had to get up. Apparently, the block on migration and asylum is closed, but I am a little surprised by your laconic reaction to Mr Frentrop. He said earlier today that he wants to stop migration. A few others did, too. That would mean stepping out of international treaties. You said that we do not intend to do that now. I would nevertheless like you to say firmly that the Netherlands complies with the international obligations and we are in favour of the international conventions on migration that we have signed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u95	We stand before the international treaties that we have signed. That is why I cannot accept Mr Frentrop's suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u96	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u97	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u98	Good. Then I get to corona in the medical field and then a few more social things come along. Many questions have been asked, but one of the questions is, of course, about what happens when the vaccine becomes available. Of course, the Ministry of Health is preparing for that. There are all kinds of steps taken around the purchase of vaccines and the preparation of the vaccines themselves, so that you can do the latter safely and effectively. That's what happens with the RIVM. We are talking to a lot of parties that will play a role in the implementation of the vaccination. The Health Council has been asked for advice. However, I must stress here that in the first phase you are not expected to have enough vaccines available for a large-scale campaign. So it will probably be a phased approach. The intention is for more information on the precise approach to be made by mid-November. Then there was also a question about the current state of the laboratory capacity and the GD staff. There is a tremendous amount of work being done by the GGDs to ensure that capacity continues to increase. We're seeing a huge increase in the number of decreased tests. Last week 47.000 COVID-19 tests were taken a day at the GGD-test streets. If you add the tests to the hospitals, nursing homes and general practitioners, you'll get 63.000 tests a day. That's 3,000 a day more than a week before and 7,000 more than two weeks before. So that's going to happen very quickly. By the end of November, we are going to take more than 90,000 tests a day and in January, we are going to take more than 100,000 tests a day. In addition, capacity has increased in both GGDs and laboratories. The lead time is now also falling. It's now 60 hours, it was 70 hours last week and it's going down fast. In addition to the increase in PCR tests, antigen and rapid tests are also expected to produce significant results. Of course, the innovative fast test methods provide more additional capacity and faster lead time. They quickly give the results and by using them cleverly they can also further increase the flow in the test streets. To this end, a number of tests have been validated and are now being applied in practice in a pilot setting. It's being worked on incredibly hard. The same applies to the research of sources and contact. That's where the scale goes up. Then I come to a number of more fundamental questions about the perspective on corona, asked by Mrs Bikker, Mr Rosenmöller and Mr Otten. How do you deal with this as a society? It is precisely in order to look at the long-term and long-term lines and the impact of COVID-19 on society that we have decided to say as a Council of Ministers that there is an acute phase now, what needs to be done now in order to achieve everything? This is a more medium- and longer-term phase. Then you will indeed talk about the impact of the crisis response on society, on the economy and on people's support. It is also about including people in the outline of options that may be relevant to the current acute phase of the crisis response. Then, for example, attention is also paid to people's behaviour and how we can all ensure that people continue to follow the basic rules. One of the points Mr Gerbrandy made was: you must also be very firm in what you ultimately ask. Mr Gerbrandy had just made the right point that you should not look at it too liberally. I said the same thing in the House of Representatives. You always have the combination of measures with enforcement and also behavior. The mistake I made during the debate on the other side of the House was that I put too much emphasis on the behaviour and did not mention the importance of the measures and the enforcement. This allowed people to think: oh, that Rutte lives in a kind of liberal dream that it will be okay by itself. I'm not living in that at all. I'm realistic enough... but apparently that was the image that came into being. It's always a combination of those things. You can also see that, at the stage we are now in, enforcement is being pushed much more sharply and many more fines are being imposed. Boas and police are also much more involved in maintaining the 1.5 meters, the group size and that sort of thing. Moreover, the insight of experts is very important, not only that of the Outbreak Management Team, but also of the planning agency, the RIVM and the WRR. Behavioural scientific insights are taken into account in short-term and medium-term decision-making. The point that Mrs Bikker mentioned here is important, especially as the crisis lasts longer. That's what I keep saying in my expressions: you're not done until there's a vaccine. As long as there's no vaccine, we're gonna have the virus. That means that we all have to try to stick to a few simple things, because in a pandemic that comes from a virus, it's not very complicated: if we all keep a distance of 1.5 meters and wash our hands, we'll be fine. But we don't all do that, which means that virus starts to get back on its feet at some point, and then you have to take heavier measures. That's what's sometimes called "dancing with the virus." If it gets there, that road map is made for it. You can show that at 50 infections per 100,000 inhabitants you are in the lightest phase and in between 50-150 infections per 100,000 in a heavier phase. Now we are at the most serious stage in some regions where there are 500 infections per week per 100,000 inhabitants. That's a lot more than 50 you can have. We are now in the heaviest phase, and that is why we must now use the heaviest hammer. But you want to go back to the phase in which you can deal with the virus again, so the restaurants and the cafés can be opened again. What you don't want is for you to go back to a kind of carelessness that apparently descended over the Netherlands in June and July: oh, we have it under control, so everything can be done again. No, it's not. Even then, we will always have to look where it is going and where you have to intervene, as happened locally in Hillegom, in Brielle and in many other places, with success. But that wasn't enough collective to reverse that strong rise we've seen. In fact, we see a huge increase in numbers in Europe. I think it is very important to always outline that perspective and to say that as we comply with those rules, more can be done. Finally, on this point, while Mrs Bikker is walking forward, the question that Mr Schalk and others are asking: what lessons did you learn from that first wave, from that first phase? We spent a lot of time with experts this summer to see what we can learn from it. A few things that came out of it, three main messages, were: you have to have good insight, you have to have targeted measures and you have to persevere together. This therefore means measures with enforcement. Keeping up with each other is also realizing that it has a huge impact for a lot of people, for all of us, but certainly for elderly people who get lonely, young people who see their study time going differently, entrepreneurs who have concerns about their business and people who are afraid of losing their job. It affects a lot of people and it has great psychological effects in society. So you have to monitor carefully and try to play it as well as possible. We do, but it will inevitably have economic and social effects as long as the virus is among us and it is inevitable to take action again in the event of outbreaks. We can't massage that away with great stories. That's just the way it is. What you can do, though, is to try to take that into account as closely as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u99	I thank the Prime Minister and with him the Cabinet for all the efforts that are being made. At the same time, my concern is that we are now going into winter, traditionally already a season that brings with it more diseases anyway. How are people gonna keep this up? I would like to encourage the Prime Minister to lay down a broad plan with the mayors, who really have a leading role in their regions, and with all those links that like to do the right thing in society, with which we hang out a little bit in the dark, to keep it going. You have to radiate how you can do that as a society wide. That goes a little further than what the Prime Minister now puts down in his otherwise wonderful and praiseworthy reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u100	I agree with that, but the risk is that at some point that can reach the edge of anointing. It is then searching for words and understanding for what is happening in society. It affects all of us in our personal lives. This spring, I couldn't visit my mother. Others may also have family in nursing homes. Or kids who went to college and thought, "Is this it? Or people who are afraid their company won't make it. It has a huge impact on so many people in so many different ways. And at the same time, it's frustrating that it's not that complicated with such a pandemic. If all of us were to hold those five feet, we wouldn't get a cold, but we wouldn't get that virus either. Of course, there is always a risk of a small distribution through the aerosols and that sort of thing, but that is really limited. The biggest spread really takes place in larger drops and they hit down at 1.5 meters. Keep your distance five feet, you'll keep it reasonably under control.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u101	It is not my intention in the coming months to put down some sort of version of Sesame Street with padding and wet holding. Every once in a while, we absolutely need to communicate that it's rotten but that we have to keep it up. If you don't follow the rules, there will be sanctions. Agreed. But my request is that the mayors become more the flag carriers of what we have to endure with each other and of the society we want to be and remain. That is an assignment that I see not only for the cabinet, but also for the mayors and others. I ask the Prime Minister to make a commitment to involve them precisely and to ensure that it is a message from all of us. We're not doing it because of Rutte and De Jonge, but we're doing it to take care of each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u102	I agree from a to z. Once again, mayors are very important, because they have a lot of authority in our society. They can do this and they want this too, I see. Of course, we have the security council with the 25 presidents of the security regions, which are the mayors of the larger cities. But it is of course all more than 330 mayors of the Netherlands who can do that with their municipal councils and aldermen. But especially those mayors, because if you ask who's boss in the municipality, people are still looking at the mayor, even though he might not be state-owned. In most cases, he or she has enormous personal authority and can do so. I agree. Mr Rosenmöller and I were just talking about education outside the debate. Look what is happening there and what enormous effort is being made in schools to keep them open. The closure of schools has inevitably done damage in the period up to May/June. Primary schools were closed until mid-May, I thought, and secondary schools could be a bit open again from June 1st and again completely open from July 1st. There are great concerns among teachers who see the disease and wonder how it is now, but they do everything they can to keep the schools running as well as possible. It is also very special, however we are doing at this stage shoulder-to-shoulder to tackle the problem. In that respect, I certainly don't feel Hugo de Jonge and I should do it. We're all really doing it together. But once, mayors have a bearing role in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u103	I quoted the sentence in the Throne speech that said something about the rule of law with equality of opportunity as the norm. Applied to this pandemic, we have to agree that forms of inequality of opportunity are now the outcome. My question may be focused on a particular group. You will speak with young people in the Catshuis and you will meet all kinds of young people every day or weekly. What more can the Cabinet do to see that standard from the Throne speech in daily practice? It concerns certain categories of young people: we all know which people are the victims of such a pandemic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u104	It affects a lot of groups and especially young people. There are also big differences between them. When you go to high school and there's a class dropout, you see how creative teachers try to teach anyway, partly via Webex connections. Then one teaches in the classroom and some of the children are taking the class at home. That's a little easier than in March or April, because then everything had to go through Webex. Now you can make combinations of what you do in class and what you do elsewhere. So there are effects there, but they are still reasonably controlled in secondary education. The MBO and internships. I believe it was Mrs. Fox who named how important internships are. She gave the beautiful example of someone who sent her a letter with the best of intentions, who started with "hey, hi." She got the feedback from her: don't do that, maybe it's smarter to start with "Best Mei Li," or "Dear Mrs. Fox," but start with a normal introductory phrase. That's the kind of social skills you learn in an internship. You even learn your profession there, so for people on the MBO, on internships and also on the HBO, it's really intense. Also on the HBO it is really intense what students experience. So it's broad, but don't have the illusion that we can solve all this from the cabinet, other than looking at where the leadership is in those groups and making sure you have the effects as much as possible in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u105	That's too easy. Recording such a standard in the Throne speech cannot be a free beer in a major crisis. I don't expect everything from the cabinet, but it can't be... I mentioned those MBOs myself. These are people who are practically oriented. If the economy is going to get back on track, we're gonna need a bunch of professionals and we're gonna tell those educational institutions, where were you when you had to train them? Then the answer is simply nowhere, because we couldn't get internships. That's a serious problem. You can't say we're not. Then the cabinet, together with the field, must take an initiative to ensure that there are internships for students on the MBO. That is what I expect of you and not the answer that we cannot leave everything to the cabinet. Then it is a gratuitous remark to speak in the Throne speech about the standard of equality of opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u106	A little too black and white, because a lot is happening. I just don't want to give the impression here that with a few cabinet initiatives you can solve the whole problem of, for example, internships in the MBO. There are, of course, a lot of initiatives, for example, the catch-up and support scheme for almost 300 million available, and the Equal Opportunities Alliance for Municipalities, which has set up a whole pool of educational experts to make free use of to ensure that the catching-up and support programmes take place. In addition, there are all these monitors that are now being carried out to get a picture of the effects of corona: distance learning, drop-out, disadvantaged students and equal opportunities. That's all being done. We have, of course, had the report of the Halsema working group. This was particularly relevant to the position of young people. That's all worked out. The SER has a very youth platform. I regularly talk to young people myself, rather through the Coalition-Y and now through the SER Youth Platform. The same applies to the Ministers for Education, etc. So a lot is happening. One of the priorities is the internships in the MBO. I have learned over the years that saying something here with each other and naming all these things does not mean that tomorrow every young person following this debate thinks: oh, now I have an internship place. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u107	No, but I've learned in the years that I haven't walked around here that a cabinet can do more than it thinks it can. That brings me to this question about young people, in this case just as focused: I would like the cabinet to respond to all those experts who say that young people are suffering from this crisis, especially mentally. I would like a coherent approach from this cabinet. It needs to be there soon, because the crisis is going to take a while. At some point, we'll have it under control. Then you don't want to talk about a half-lost generation. This calls for a vision of how to support these less promising young people. I miss that one. I think you're playing it down a little too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u108	That's really not my intention. I'm trying to prevent the impression that a pandemic has caused internships to fall away in part, which as a government can recover with a magic wand. I very much agree with Rosenmöller. We can make and switch, and we can make money available. But we all do. All these things happen. The cabinet response to the Halsema report goes into this. Both Van Engelshoven, who deals with the MBO, and Arie Slob, the Minister for Primary and Secondary Education, who deals with primary and secondary schools, are working to achieve this, along with the whole field of education. Anyway, I will not stress that we should not promise something that we cannot promise, other than that we make maximum efforts to do so and that we really do all those things. Nor do I know whether a new action plan on top of the existing action plans is the answer to this. Apparently, they're listening. Let me promise that I will ask for officials, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to see whether the Rosenmöller interruptions in my direction and my response at the moment is sufficient to do more. If that's the case, I'll come back to that in the second term. I promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u109	Following that, this is one part of a series of problems that have been put on the table by the planning agencies. The planning agencies have found that in recent years the gaps in the Netherlands have grown. On top of that, they are now finding that the pandemic is getting worse. I don't envy the Prime Minister, let's be clear. This is a terrible job to do, but we have a government for that. If the planning agencies find that, however harsh it may be, the corona crisis increases the contradictions as they are already there, then the government must act on them. I can imagine the Prime Minister thinking, but I have so much to do. Well, that's the fate of the trade. We need to act on this. The planning agencies have indicated that the corona crisis increases the contradictions. I want to hear from the Prime Minister today how we're gonna do this. I have devoted most of my general consideration to this. We don't have to have ready-made answers today. Officials in the public gallery: I do not need the solution today. But the Prime Minister has to promise us that the government will make a plan for the reports made by the planning agencies, namely that the corona crisis increases the contradictions between young people and the elderly, between workers and jobseekers, betweenzzp'ers and people with jobs, between people with very high money and people with very little money. The government has to come up with a plan for that. Whoever has to do that in the government doesn't matter to me. But it has to be done. That's the consequence of ruling in a pandemic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u110	That's the plan. Only the question is now, very specifically in response to Mr Rosenmöller, whether we can do more, specifically for internships and other very specific problems in education which we do not yet have enough at stake. That's what I'm gonna find out. That's what I just asked. But it is not that we have not responded to the planning agencies. The planning agencies are one of our two main advisors, alongside the Halsema working group, which was temporary. In addition, there is permanent advice from the ESC, the SER Youth Platform, as well as advice from the joint planning agencies on how to tackle the pandemic and in particular the question of this aspect of social contradictions: where does this lead? This has led to a number of things I have just named, in response to Senator Rosenmöller, but also wider, the whole approach. This afternoon was the press conference of the three ministers concerned. Of course, there is an approach to maintaining as much employment as possible. If there is one way to prevent the contradictions from increasing, it is to ensure as much job retention as possible. And where that really is not possible, people need to be helped to find places where employment is now, such as in health care and other places in education. This is being worked very hard, not only by the cabinet, but also by tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people in the Netherlands. I would argue that all these plans are there and that the solution is not to make a new plan now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u111	Mr Kox, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u112	It was only my first comment throughout the debate, Mr President, but it is the essence of my speech. If the Prime Minister says that there is a natural plan, then I should be reassured. But I'd like to see the plan. I don't know it. I know what the planning agencies have pointed out, I know what they have put their finger on, but the Prime Minister has to tell me what we are going to do about the fact that the contrasts in education are increasing because of the pandemic. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister what we are going to do about the increase in the contrast between tenants and homeowners, the increase in the contrast between people with flex jobs and those with permanent jobs. The planning agencies have signaled, but you, I tell the Prime Minister, through the chairman, you have to respond, you have to act. That plan, I'd like to see it. If you can give it to me, I'm reassured. But I don't know the plan. I don't think it's here yet. I do not blame the government either, because the reports from the planning agencies are quite new, but they need to be acted on. I would ask the Prime Minister to give a clear undertaking that the plan, which he believes is there, will be made available to Parliament and that we can discuss it widely. This is the essence of what the government needs to do in times of crisis and in times of pandemics: to visualise and combat the consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u113	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u114	We're trying to convince each other when we're convinced. But there is no "a" or "the" plan. Priority work is being carried out by people in the field of education in order to maintain as many internships as possible. Koolmees, Wiebes and Hoekstra, the three ministers who deal with this, are working to ensure that we maintain as many companies as possible in the Netherlands, so that we keep those jobs. We are, of course, also concerned with companies, but most of all we are concerned with the jobs behind them. We want to keep as many jobs as possible. Hence the press conference of 12.30 p.m. this afternoon with the additional economic packages. Of course, there is also awfully hard work in the field of housing market. We'll talk about that later. But we're talking about education now. Apart from the social and mental pressure, there are students who say: I was going to study, but it has become very different than I thought; I don't get an internship. Whether young people in secondary and primary education, especially secondary education, who have had months of home education and missed social contact with others. All these kinds of issues we have at gunpoint in the sense that we know them. We do not need to make a new plan for this. No, we're doing things as well as we can. However, I do not want to give the impression here that in a pandemic of this magnitude there would be no effect on large groups of people in our society. There are those effects. If at some point it would be inevitable, sometime in the coming months, to close down some or all schools again, I sincerely hope that it will not be necessary anymore, but suppose that it should be, then that will again have great effects on young people. If it were necessary to take further measures in the nursing homes again, I hope I will never see a closure like we did, but if you have to take additional measures there because of safety, then that will have an effect on loneliness. That's a fact in a health crisis like this. Then you can expect us, together, Chamber and Cabinet, to do everything in our power to limit these effects as much as possible, but they will be there. It is an illusion to think that it is possible to let it go completely without effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u115	Finally. I don't want to do illusion politics. I want the Prime Minister to show how the government acts on the growing contradictions because of the pandemic. That's really not too much to ask. It's very difficult, but it's not too much to ask. I realize that the pandemic has a wide impact on everything. I would like to point out what our planning agencies have pointed out: the pandemic increases social contradictions in society. You, Mr. Prime Minister, must tell this Chamber how we are going to respond to that. The communication that there is a lot of work going on everywhere, for which I have great admiration, is not enough. I would like to ask the Prime Minister a letter in some time, stating how we are going to deal with these socio-economic contradictions as a result of the pandemic. Parliament is entitled to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u116	I'm just waiting for the motion. If that motion is passed, we will make a letter, but that is not going to solve the problem. I'm just sketching out what we're already doing. I think Mr Kox and I agree. In education, I named those cases. I said that in the second term I will come back to the question of whether there are any gaps in that. This is due to the interruption of Mr Rosenmöller. With regard to the broad issue of the labour market, the support packages and all the additions that have been made today are precisely aimed at avoiding unnecessary additional contradictions. You don't want that. We will talk about this later in a number of other areas, but as far as education and the labour market are concerned, that is my first response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u117	I'd like to ask a short question. In my first term, I said I'm not gonna tell the cabinet how to do it. But we have raised problems that are damaging the whole of society. Let me say immediately that I do not want a police state, but the Red Team has an idea and says that if we take strict measures for a short time, the damage will be much smaller in the long term. I'd like you to reflect on that. So the idea of the Red Team is: short, so that we can get back to normal on Christmas and with Saint Nicholas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u118	It really isn't. Let's not have that illusion either. Hugo de Jonge and I will not go into the Red Team at the press conference tonight, but we will outline where we stand now. There are two major issues. One problem is whether at the moment the number of infections is sufficiently deflected. We will discuss the mid-term situation at 7 p.m. tonight. A second issue is: how quickly are we going to get back into the road map? You want to go back to the first box, which is 7 infections a day and 50 a week. But the thought that you are on top of the hammer with a kind of good day, such a medieval club with nails, just as easy... We're not ruling anything out. We don't have the luxury of ruling anything out. The epidemiological issues you need to answer to see if it makes sense, also in relation to the social effects, must be considered very carefully. That is why our reaction at the moment, in everything that is said about this, is that we do not rule out anything. We are looking at everything and tonight we will say a number of things to the journalists. I understand that although we don't have any big news, it's being broadcast, and that's okay, of course. And I take absolute notice of whatever is suggested outside the OMT, by the Red Team and others, but occasionally I think: if only it were that simple. Then a few questions were asked about Europe and covid. I do not think that we should now have some sort of debate on the transfer of powers. Now leave it where they are. But within that, you can coordinate a lot of things. I also try to promote this in the Netherlands, for example through the approach with color codes. Free travel across Europe is one of the greatest achievements of the European Union. The effects of closing the internal borders are enormous. At the moment, it seems very sensible to me that Dutch people do not travel to Germany and Germans do not go to the Netherlands. But we are very happy, said Armin Laschet, the Prime Minister of North Rhine-Westphalia and I on the phone last week, that the border is open so that goods can cross the border. At the height of the crisis in March/April, it was one of the few European internal borders that remained open. Moreover, it is one of the busiest borders in the world in terms of trade in goods, comparable to that between Canada and the United States. So the powers lie where they lie. There are a lot of opportunities for cooperation in there. A first Council recommendation was adopted on 13 October, and it has now been agreed that things should be better aligned. That's what the Netherlands wants. But it is really difficult within Europe. You saw that already in March and April with the mouth caps and the other personal protective equipment and you can still see it. The Commission is doing its unbelievable best. I had Ursula von der Leyen here on Friday, the President of the Commission. They're doing the best they can to do what they have to do. In any case, there will now be a common European risk analysis for the areas within Europe. We will also use them to draw up our travel advice so that they will be more consistent. That has now been achieved. The Netherlands has also been working on this. A second Council Recommendation is expected to be adopted shortly to extend it to the whole Schengen area and legally resident third-country nationals. We are now also looking at the fact that you can recognize each other's tests. That is also a very important point, because that too is an irritation. This allows you to align quarantine rules and make agreements on the procurement and distribution of vaccines. Moreover, the European Commission is very active in the field of vaccination. Luckily, there's a lot going on there. What needs to be noted is that we can develop this cooperation by, for example, allowing our RIVM, the Robert Koch Institute in Germany and so on to work together even more. The European Centre for Disease Prevention is also working on this. All these things are very important. In that context also something about the tracking apps. That was a question from Mrs Bredenoord. The CoronaMelder works because random codes are exchanged with other phones. This works with the CoronaMelder also abroad and with the notification apps that work on the same framework. But it is not yet possible to receive a notification from an infected person abroad. Dutch reports of infections are not yet received by anyone abroad. The first goal is of course to get that thing working in the Netherlands. The aim is to make it work quickly in Europe as well. That is what cooperation is about. For this purpose, we are working on the European Federation Gateway Service, which I thought was also mentioned by Mrs Bredenoord or others. It's being realized to make that possible. Mr President, in relation to COOVID-19.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u119	The Prime Minister rightly mentions initiatives that are now being taken in this way, but that is precisely the problem that I was trying to make clear in the first term. We are now more than nine months away and there is still talk of coordination that can take place in this way. We can only observe that there is still a lot of discussion in all areas, for example in the case of mouth caps. There is one area where things are going well: the joint procurement of the vaccine. I spoke two weeks ago at a conference of the Renew Group. That sounds familiar to you, because your party is also part of it. It was also said by MEPs that things were not going well. There is not enough coordination and Europe does not have enough scope to take control. So I do not feel too much urgency in how you respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u120	I'm sorry, I didn't mean to. I couldn't agree more. I just can't guarantee that it's happening here, because there's too many oppositions in too many places. There's more sense now. There is also an initiative by the German Presidency to have the European Council meet by video every 10 days or two weeks. Next Thursday we will also be discussing vaccines and the approach of COVID-19 and what we can better coordinate. Merkel knows I'm totally on her side to promote that. There's no doubt about that. No, then perhaps more my tone is driven by disappointment about how much we have achieved. But that's not in our hands. The Netherlands really is not the case. We want this very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u121	I know that you cannot agree to this, because there are 26 Member States left and you must coordinate it together. But you can of course say that you are going to ensure that there is a better coordination mechanism and that there is more direction. It now applies to corona, but who knows if there will be many more diseases and viruses that are cross-border. And I am not saying that we need to make a European policy for healthcare at once. We're not saying that at all. But you can say that I am going to make this better for now and for everything that will come next. 'Cause we're too slow. It's too little.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u122	I can't say. I can say I agree with her and I would like to, but I can't say I can do it. The only way we're gonna do that is if everyone's in on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u123	You can say you're gonna make a big deal out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u124	No doubt. I'm sorry if there's any confusion about that. We already do. We have now had two very long discussions in the European Council on corona in two weeks. So Thursday we have a first video meeting. You can see that the awareness is increasing. We have supported the Czechs with breathing equipment for the ICU. The Germans are helping us with the recording of corona patients in intensive care in Germany. So there's a lot going on bilaterally. This helps to raise awareness in Europe, but if I am very precise, I totally agree that this needs to be improved. I'll do anything about it. Also Hugo de Jonge does everything about it. But it's not like by saying that here, it happened tomorrow. It takes 27 to tango. That is, of course, a problem of coordination. For example, De Jonge has formed a leading group for vaccine procurement with the Italians, the Germans and the French. This was adopted very quickly by the European Commission. That's an example that you can sometimes speed things up with head groups. We're working on that, too. If my answer would give the impression that we do not think this is important, it has been restored. Mr. Chairman. Then a few things about climate. A lot of things have been said about it, but that was also a lot of contemplative stories instead of asking me questions. The risk is that I will reflect on these considerations and you will not be waiting for them at all. So I'm going to limit that. With Mr Knapen, without spooning them all up, I would like to highlight the three traces surrounding the nitrogen approach. He referred to that, of course. It is important that more permits for social and economic activities can be granted. Mrs Bredenoord of D66 asked about the approach to nitrogen and the debate on the future of agriculture. She has a point that is an important debate. In my opinion, agriculture wants nothing more than that transition, so that in the future there will also be support in the Netherlands for our beautiful agricultural sector. For us it is very important that farmers who want to go through can also go through. Maybe that can't always be guaranteed exactly in that place. Innovation is very important here. We must be careful not to prescribe exactly what such a farm should look like, but above all to say what the type of emissions we can handle as the Netherlands. If it is really impossible to realize in such a place, we are going to help move to another place, so that every farmer who wants to go through can also go through. Mr Frentrop's third question to stop something was about the Climate Agreement. I think we had to stop doing that too. Before Mrs Bredenoord says that I am not firm enough to reject it, I would say that I respectfully take note of it, but that we were still planning to continue the Climate Agreement. On 30 October, you will receive the Climate Statement, in which we report on the progress of the policy agreements. Mrs Vos spoke of a number of very interesting initiatives. I will come back to that in a moment with the Growth Fund. There are new initiatives that the Minister of LNV also appointed in her speech of Fryslân a while ago. Mr Gerbrandy referred to this. There are several similar initiatives, for example around the grutto. The idea appeals to me, because it allows farmers to continue working on a more biodiverse landscape. Similarly, consumers themselves can make the landscape richer by the milk they drink. The Minister of LNV is committed to broadening such fund-building initiatives, but wants to continue to involve the market players, because this power is important, also in a positive sense, and to use the power of the ideas that live there. She does that across a broad front. I will come back later to the investment fund and the specific ideas on "from grass straight to milk" and other forms of meat consumption. Without reflecting on all the comments that have been made on climate, I think I have answered some of the questions about climate and nitrogen. That brings me to the issue of discrimination. As a result, Mrs Jorritsma and Paul Rosenmöller have made comments, but I believe others have also made comments. I hear someone asking about Mrs. Jorritsma: is that the young variant? He understood Miss Jorritsma. No, sorry, it's Mrs. Jorritsma. It concerns Annemarie Jorritsma and Paul Rosenmöller, the senators of VVD and GroenLinks, as participants in this debate. Of course, there were also comments about the horrible death of George Floyd, who has been remembered here. As a result, I myself had a number of impressive discussions about discrimination, including with the Minister for Social Affairs. At least that has brought me a great deal, to see how much strength there is in the Netherlands to fight this and to tackle it. At the beginning of next year, a meeting is planned with a broad representation of the cabinet and also a broad representation of the organisations that are associated in a broad sense with Black Lives Matter. Of course, our plans for tackling discrimination continue along all kinds of lines. I am not, of course, talking about research, a parliamentary inquiry, or whatever it is. But I think it would help a lot to have this conversation in a lot of places. I would also think with some knowledge of state law that it fits in with the function of the Senate. But, of course, I say this with the utmost respect and restraint. Mr. Chairman. A lot has also been said about the housing market, but very few questions have been asked to me. Maybe I can say something about it, namely that the cabinet has the ambition to build solidly. Last year EUR 2 billion was made available for this purpose. We are now raising EUR 100 million in investment and we are investing an additional EUR 50 million, so that an additional 15 000 to 25,000 homes are being built. The decision-making process on 14 large housing sites is accelerated. That also leads to 60,000 homes. There is an additional 20 million for flex pools to accelerate housing procedures with additional capacity, and there is an additional 20 million for the transformation of shops and offices into homes. The removal of the barriers by nitrogen is, of course, very important. We are releasing 100 million a year over the next ten years, so that housing can continue at full power. In addition, we do so through research into the state's land policy and the setting up of a state development company. We reduce the transfer tax for starters under 35 years of age to 0.0%. Renters with high rents and low income can apply for rent reductions in 2021, as you know, so that we can also improve the affordability of rents. So we're working across a very broad front. I say this in response to comments from the Chamber that were not so much directed at me as they are, let me say, relevant. As far as health care is concerned, this also raised the issue of relief from the burden on healthcare workers and ensuring that more people work in the care sector. That is also the theme that we have been working on very actively since 2018, also in consultation with the Second and First Chambers. We do this through the Health Care Work Action Programme, so that more people work in healthcare. We see that increase, also because of the higher influx. At the same time, you can still see that people are leaving the sector and that absenteeism is high. That's why we put in an extra booster on Prinsjesdag with a whole package to further improve the work in care, by focusing on career development and by giving more space and time to the people themselves, the professionals, and more control. A substantial amount of money has also been made available for this, 130 million structurally since 2023. We are also talking to the Economic and Social Council to identify the bottlenecks and solutions. Especially when it comes to control, we work on the advice of the Chief Nursing Officer. And the Minister for Medical Care and Sport has asked a scout to investigate the possibilities for employers and employees to further increase the control of nurses and people in healthcare. So it's really very important, because we certainly now, with the ascending corona infections, see how tight it's all set and how quickly problems arise, apart from the corona occupancys of beds in hospitals in the intensive-care departments. But also wider in the care you can see the enormous effects that soon occur. You can already see that in the care of the elderly, where you can indeed not scale down. Several people have drawn attention to this. I say this in response to a number of things that have been noted in the Chamber. We are also working within the framework of the programme launched today from the Cabinet to further explore the possibilities in the labour market. We are continuing to work on people who are at risk of job losses: what are the possibilities in health care?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u125	It is good to hear that you have a lot of action plans again. This SER programme is going to take a while and we now have an acute problem with people falling over. I have two questions. When will we get an overview of what these plans are and how they will lead to actual results? Two. Do you just do that in consultation with people, with employees from care? They know best what they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u126	At least I was part of that second one myself. I recently had a conversation with Tamara van Ark, the Minister for Medical Care and Sport, with a lot of people from the hospital sector, from hospital care. She talks like that about a much wider area. I do not have exactly when the ESC comes with the reporting, but I will ask for that for the second term. Let me just note that I will return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u127	I don't think the SER report comes before the next cabinet. So that's taking a while. It's about the next few months. Where can the cabinet do anything to relieve that pressure, especially in time and space? I'm also curious if the Prime Minister has any idea if that's going to cost money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u128	So from 2023 onwards, we will be paying out 130 million in structural terms. That builds up in the next few days, so money isn't the problem here. This is not so much a program because of corona. It is a broader programme, because there is, of course, a lot of discussion in the care sector, regardless of the question of pay and bonus, about workload and whether one has any influence on his job or whether one has control. Or do you arrive at the hospital in the morning, highly educated, and then are you told where you can go to work that day? For example, you cannot build structural relationships with colleagues or patients. We want to address these issues throughout that programme, so that people also get much more ownership, ownership, about their jobs. Mrs Vos, of course, also refers to the question of what to do in the shorter term. There are, of course, many initiatives. It is not the case that there is now a whole new programme of action from the cabinet. I don't think that's gonna help at the acute stage we're in. I'd like to ask you again if I'm missing something. So I will not ask when the ESC opinion will come, because Mrs Vos already knows that, but I will ask if there are any other things that can help with this workload in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u129	I think the Prime Minister is now referring to the programme (Ont) Regulal de Zorg. We know that one of the biggest problems faced by people working in care is the administrative burden. This is particularly true of nursing and care. Can you tell us about the state of play of that programme? I think that's been going on for a year or two. Have you managed to get some of those rules out already?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u130	Yes, of course it is not for nothing that we have come up with Princess' Day with the additions to that whole action programme Working in Care from 2018. That was to put that boost on and make an additional 130 million structurally available. That's the next few years, starting from 2023, structuralally. That is to make sure that people who work in care also experience more fun. This is not just about administrative burdens. This also has to do with issues relating to increasing the part-time factor. This, of course, also leads to a reduction in the workload. How can you provide roster boosters, as it is called in the professional jargon, so that you can influence how your schedule looks like? You don't get to decide where you're gonna be that day. When I talk to nurses, it goes away from maybe the hard money side of the business, still very strongly on this kind of thing. Do I have a grip on my work? When I work, haven't I spent half the time on reporting obligations?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u131	Can we therefore conclude that the first positive developments are already taking place there and that you can really say that people report that they are less affected by this administrative burden and that they experience more autonomy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u132	I'm not that good at it. I'll have to check it out. I will ask for that for the second term, but that would come from the 2018 programme. That cannot yet come from the initiative of Princess Day, because that is too recent. So I come back with: are there any more things to do in the short term to reduce the workload in healthcare and are there any insights from the 2018 programme on the experience of administrative burden?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u133	I saw that in the House of Representatives this afternoon the motion was finally adopted to increase healthcare salaries. Apparently, a Christian Union Member of Parliament had voted for it by mistake. That's very nice. I also saw a motion by Mrs Vos on that subject. We will also support that motion. Of course, all this has to be paid for. My question to the Prime Minister is: is the Prime Minister familiar with Sutton's law? That's about Willie Sutton.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u134	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u135	Willie Sutton was a famous bank robber in America in the 1930s. Journalists asked him why do you rob banks? Then he said, "Because that's where the money is." I have a tip for the Prime Minister. The money to carry out this care motion belongs to the health insurance companies. There's over 10 billion in excess liquidity. The solvency ratios of insurers are much higher than the regulatory requirements. A number of billions could thus be released. We are therefore proposing a motion for a resolution on this in the second term, to use that excess money to improve the working conditions in the care sector, which is hard hit by corona. The money's here. All you have to do is take it with an emergency law. You're so good at it as a cabinet. I'd say get on with it. That's a constructive tip.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u136	Life is so clear. I love it when you can fix everything like that. Thank you. I'm going to chew on this tip, but I'm not going to respond to it in this debate. Mr. Chairman. Two further questions remain in the area of care. They don't directly touch the staff, they deal with other aspects. One was about self-determination versus protection of vulnerable lives. Mr Schalk asked for that. In recent decades, self-determination and protection of vulnerable lives have led to debate in society. The Dutch also express themselves intensively on these topics. In 2019, the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau appointed that there is increasing acceptance of homosexuality, euthanasia, divorces, abortion and suicide. At present, therefore, there appears to be no polarisation in the acceptance of actions in the private sphere. Both values, i.e. self-determination and protection of vulnerable lives, are considered important when you look at those investigations. Then, of course, it is up to us as a government to take this into account in policy and regulation. In medical-ethical legislation, I think, a good balance has been found between the protection of life on the one hand and self-determination on the other. This certainly applies to subjects that have also been the subject of lengthy debates in the Upper House in recent decades, such as abortion and euthanasia. As far as we are concerned, this balance sheet is always the starting point for legislation. This does not alter the fact that these are subjects on which people's views can differ fundamentally, precisely because they touch on their very personal values. I think it is right for this to be the subject of a lively social and political debate in a democratic constitutional state. That is why we announced this in the agreement on medical and ethical matters. That social conversation started, too. But it is not the case that this cabinet comes up with initiatives on the issue of, for example, completed life. That may be up to political groups, but it is not the case that the cabinet comes with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u137	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer. A number of initiatives are currently under way. There is a discussion about completed life, which should be extended further. A discussion has also started on children aged 1 to 12 years. Does the government also take such a firm stance on this issue in Mrs Bredenoord's speech just now and say quite clearly: we do not? I just noticed that it really helped if you gave the Prime Minister a text. Then he could handle that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u138	Sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u139	Of course, that depends very much on the text and the moment. But I am always prepared to make a good text mine, if I can agree. But of course this is more subtle and more complicated. These aren't black and white issues. One of the things that this cabinet, composed of liberal and confessional parties, is trying to do is, with respect for each other's views, to see how to promote social dialogue. Are there times when the social dialogue and also the scientific insights are so far away that we have described the prisms in the coalition agreement that certain steps can be taken? It happens sometimes and sometimes it doesn't. That depends on the subject and on how far that discussion is. About completed life, this cabinet is not going to take initiatives, but there are of course other issues where as a coalition we have managed to come together in a respectful dialogue between the different movements in the coalition, as in this country these very big issues always are... Of course, that started in 1917 with universal suffrage versus special education. It has always been the case that you end up trying to take steps between the great political movements after a long discussion. That's what happened to euthanasia, abortion, gay marriage. I think that has brought the Netherlands a lot, with great respect for the currents that said: we find that a little too intense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u140	Some of the currents even think it's too intense. It might be good to mention that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u141	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u142	I am pleased to hear that the Prime Minister is still saying that this government is not taking initiatives for this, but there are parties that are also participating in the government and that are taking those initiatives. I get the feeling that perhaps two or three years ago a more solid text would have come out than at the moment, just before the new elections. Or should we simply note that there is a steady line and that you are simply saying for now and for the future: listen, this government does not want it and does not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u143	My personal view is that I am speaking on behalf of the coalition, too, and I think that we have allowed some very fundamental issues in the Netherlands to land in legislation in a very respectful way. Then you talk about the big issues, such as abortion, for which the legislation was still blocked in 1980 by a senator of the VVD, Haya van Someren. In the end, however, this has been defeated in legislation. I also call euthanasia and gay marriage. Those are very big topics. In my opinion, the Netherlands has found a respectful balance. Now there are still issues surrounding embryo selection and completed life, to name a few very large topics. I am convinced that we in the Netherlands will be drawing joint conclusions on these issues in the coming years. They can mean that we do not do it or do it, but in a way that takes into account all the views that live in the Netherlands. That's the only way in our state-of-the-art society you can solve this kind of thing. If you do that under pressure of time and with the power of the majority, then you deny the essence of democracy, namely that the minority and even the individual in our democracy have the same meaning. That is certainly the case at the debate stage; perhaps not at the decision-making stage, where a majority ultimately has to decide something, but after that minority and the individual have been very much taken into account. I think that is the strength of the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps, finally, on this subject, there is the question of this very sensitive issue: let us say that the ic capacity reaches its limits. As you know, there is now a consultation in progress for the Pandemia playbook, held by the Federation of Medical Specialists and the Medical Federation KNMG. This will then be submitted for decision-making within these two organisations. It is then offered to the Health and Youth Inspectorate. That is now foreseen in November. The exact timing also depends on the input that is still coming from the consultation rounds. As soon as the inspection confirms that it considers the schematic to be a field standard, the cabinet will also have to give an opinion on it and inform the Chamber accordingly. We have said before that, even in the presentation of an earlier version of the schematic to the Chamber, that we do not consider an age criterion acceptable if it remains decisive when it comes to non-medical considerations. In the jargon, you talk about phase 3, step C. As a field standard, the schematic is part of good care as referred to in Article 2 of the Quality Complaints and Disputes Care Act. This means that professionals must act in accordance with this field standard. The Health and Youth Inspectorate oversees this. As far as non-medical considerations are concerned, the Cabinet may, if necessary, clarify the general prohibition of discrimination in laws and regulations so that there can be no triage only on the basis of age. It's not that far. Now the consultation is under way and then it will come back, but we have said earlier because of the social uproar that we find an age criterion that remains decisive when it comes to non-medical considerations not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u144	I thank the Prime Minister for this clear answer. We discussed this at length with Minister De Jonge until late last night. I have raised the subject myself a few times. Do I understand from the Prime Minister that, as early as November, the advice comes from the care department, including through the inspection, and that perhaps the cabinet should decide on the non-medical side in the event of scarcity that the age criterion, only age criterion or almost exclusively age criterion, will not be proposed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u145	Now, with my German colleague schritt für schritt, we are taking it one step at a time. The playbook is now in consultation. This will then be presented to the two organisations: the Federation of Medical Specialists FMS and the Medical Federation KNMG. Then it goes to the inspection and that offer is provided at this time... that is not what we are about, but the FMS... in November. The timing isn't exactly known yet. If IGJ says this is the field standard, we will assess it and inform your Chamber. I can only say that the FMS is aiming for November. I cannot say 'it's November' because that is not our concern. They're all like-dan questions, but one as-dana question is of great political and social importance and we've answered it before. An age criterion decisively based on non-medical considerations is not acceptable to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u146	Can you promise that when this comes to the cabinet, you will say: we will inform the Chamber and you will clarify such a fundamental issue as soon as possible? This is also a very big issue for 50PLUS. We are often approached about what was called the "code black" because it was suddenly on the street. Fortunately, the cabinet has given a clear signal about this. That was pretty careless, I have to be careful, in my opinion. The point is whether, in a reasonable period of time, there will be clarity about the clarity that the Prime Minister wants to give.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u147	In fact, I am not working on these texts all day long, because this is in the field of public health. However, my information is that as soon as "as soon" is written here on my paper, the inspection confirms that it considers the schematic as a field standard, the cabinet that assesses it and then informs the Cabinet about the judgment. We have said earlier that the age criterion is decisive as a non-medical consideration not acceptable. It is being listened to by the public, but I understand that in the planning we give that judgment and immediately inform the Chamber about it. If I say that wrong, I'll get back to you. I think it makes sense in the order of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u148	The previous versions of the schematic that have come out are not so much about age criteria as about broad categories of ages. I do not understand whether the Prime Minister is actually saying that the cabinet can embrace those broad categories when other considerations are no longer relevant. If you have already considered all medical criteria and there are still scarce ones, we could look into those broad categories. Does the Prime Minister mean this or does he want these categories not to be mentioned at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u149	I'm not going to do the negotiations with the two federations through the First Chamber right now. I can't. I think we should do things in order. The cabinet has made it clear what we think, because it is socially important to set that standard. It is now up to the federations to carry out the consultation. Then we'll see what's in it and we'll make a judgment about it. But I don't want to negotiate in detail what is the age criterion and whether that's a bracket or an age. That goes too far in a public debate. I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u150	Finally, Mrs Bredenoord.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u151	You say that the cabinet has made it clear what it thinks, but I do not think it is clear at all what the cabinet thinks. That's why I'm asking. I think it is still unclear how you stand and how you assess the process, the governance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u152	We have said that we do not consider an age criterion acceptable, but I am not going to fill it out now. It is now first up to the two domes to work on the roadmap and to have decision-making about it. Then the inspection will find something and then we will inform the Chamber about our assessment of it. If there is an age criterion in it as decisive for the non-medical part, then we will give an opinion on it at that time. But I can't negotiate through the First Chamber with two federations right now. I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u153	Mrs. Bredenoord, another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u154	I do not know whether I agree with the content of Mr Van Rooijen, but I agree with him in the process. It seems a little like this discussion is being pushed forward. I understand that perfectly, because it's not a good discussion. I would like to ask you to hurry in order to clarify this. If we have to talk about this the moment the ICUs are full, we're too late. Then we have chaos.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u155	That's not the issue at all. The two domes are busy. They know what we think. Once they're done with that, it'll go to the inspection. Then we will assess what the inspection will accept as a field standard and then we will see if that is socially acceptable to us. That is the role of politics. That's all happening really fast. I don't think it's gonna hang on to that. This is a more fundamental issue. People are anxious and say: yes, but I'm a little older and then I might not be eligible for an ic-spot. I find that very complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u156	Prime Minister, I need to intervene. We have agreed in the Seniors' College that we will suspend and then take it up again in connection with some of your obligations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u157	I am a long way from replying, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u158	That was my question. How much longer do you think you'll need?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u159	I'll think about it for half an hour after the suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u160	Then that's what we're counting on. I apologize to Mr Koffeman, but the Prime Minister really needs to leave. We talked about that. Before I suspend another household item. The fact is that almost all political groups have spent most of their speaking time in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u161	Good!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-11.u162	As you know, your speaking time was intended for both deadlines. Therefore, if we are consistent, this could lead to a very short second term. In order to bring these general political considerations to a proper conclusion, I propose that I give all the political groups a maximum of three minutes for their second term, with the exception of the PvdA Group, which has four minutes left on the counter. Mr Gerbrandy has already started to consume next year's speaking time, so he can talk a lot. This will conclude the debate at such a time that we can vote today on any motions as discussed in the Seniors' College, i.e. before 11 p.m. Can the Chamber agree to that? That's the case.
