ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome everyone, including the people in the public gallery. I know that a lot of people are following this debate on the Temporary Law covid-19 (35526) today. I should now like to extend a warm welcome to the three governors. I welcome the Minister of Justice and Security and the Minister of the Interior, but I miss the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. This is a serious subject. I just expect him to be there. File? No, you can't. We're all from all over the country. Well, I guess we'll just wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u2	The next item is the Temporary Law covid-19 (35526).
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u3	I am the first speaker to give the floor to Mr Markuszower on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Today's debate is about freedoms and their limitation. Our party, the Party for Freedom, was founded to defend our freedoms. That's what I'm gonna do today. The Temporary Law measures covid-19. It sounds necessary, proportionate and innocent, but none of this law is. This law legitimizes far-reaching restrictions on civil liberties. This law empowers the Minister of Justice and Security and the Minister of the Interior to adopt, in accordance with the Minister of Health, regulations which seriously restrict our constitutional freedoms or which even deprive us of our constitutional freedoms. If this law is passed, then a minister decides what to wear, how to sit or walk on the street, how many friends you can meet, how to move, what to drink and where to go at all. If this law is passed, then a minister or a mayor decides the future of your company, whether your company should be open or closed. If this law is passed, then a politician decides whether you can still practice your profession. If this law is passed, someone here in The Hague decides whether you can be educated, go to school. The list is endless. Mr. Chairman. That is far too much for my group. The question to ask in the case of legal treatment is whether the proposed law is proportionate. That's not this law. It is not just my group that is concerned about the far-reaching powers that this law gives to politicians. Tens of thousands of citizens, perhaps hundreds of thousands of citizens, have in recent weeks e-mailed and signed petitions about the democratic nature of this law to Members of Parliament. In the report published last week, the renowned NGO Freedom House writes that many governments are using the corona epidemic to silence critics and the press and to postpone or modify elections. Freedom House notes that governments use the corona epidemic as an excuse to undermine human rights and democracy. The intended restrictions, such as the 1.5 metres, or perhaps even more than that later, are disproportionate. In the outdoors, in normal behavior, you can hardly get infected with corona. For indoor spaces, good ventilation is much more important than the one-and-a-half meter measure. Or keep the distance apart. Or the ban to sit on a terrace with a group of friends. It is all a serious violation of our freedoms.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u5	I have in common with Mr Markuszower that we attach great importance to our freedoms and fundamental rights. It is true that, through the action of governments, supported by parliaments, there are quite far-reaching limitations of powers. You can't just meet anywhere in a restaurant. The question is whether this law will be better or worse. Take the point of group size and meet with friends in a café. Is this law getting better or worse?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u6	Does Mr Van der Staaij mean, legally speaking, better or worse, or in terms of restrictions of freedom?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u7	I mean, how is the citizen best protected, as it is now or as it would be under this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u8	In my opinion, the citizen is best protected by a cabinet that ensures that there are sufficient tests, that the testing works and that the source and contact research is in order. Now there is not enough care staff, but the best thing to protect citizens is for the Cabinet to ensure that there is sufficient care staff, that regular care is not scaled down and that there is no shortage of virus inhibitors. Now there are too few ic-beds, so there must be more ic-beds. This will be of the greatest benefit to the public. If that is in order, these measures do not need to be taken by this law at all. It must then be concluded that this law is disproportionate. I hope that Mr Van der Staaij agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u9	I also look forward to the day when a law or rules are no longer necessary, because the corona virus is gone. We agree on that. The need to take all kinds of measures to work on this issue is something that we very much agree on. But what is really at stake here is the following. Meeting in such a restaurant and other measures currently in force, such as the 1.5 metres, are now regulated by emergency regulations. The Minister of Health sends a note to the Chairman of the Security Region and the Parliament has no formal role to play. In this law, I'll see that in the end. There were all kinds of flaws in the law. We've been working on that. I see that there are improvements to the current situation. I am very curious to see what the analysis of the PVV Group is like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u10	We have no choice but to share the legal analysis. The cabinet has issued emergency regulations and it is democratically very doubtful whether they will be sustainable in the long term. We agree on that as lawyers. What's here now, I think, is version 3 of the law. Version 1 was fired by all legal scholars of the Netherlands and by the Council of State. Then came a version 2 and now, with the help of Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP and all kinds of other opposition parties, there is this document. Indeed, the legal scholars say that it is much more legal than the previous version or the emergency regulations on the basis of which restrictions were imposed. The question remains for us as parliamentarians whether it is proportionate. What's there now, is that proportional? Are the measures that the government or the politicians in The Hague want to impose on us now proportionate? Our group says no. Why no? Why do we say no on the basis of this law? Because the tests are not in order, because the source and contact research is not in order, because there is insufficient care staff and there is also no idea that the number is going up, because regular care is being scaled down, because there is a shortage of virus inhibitors and because there are too few ic-beds. Because all this is not in order, we are here restricting citizens' freedoms through this law. I think that, and our group thinks that this is disproportionate. Whether it is legally well framed, we can agree on that as lawyers. However, we are not here as lawyers, but as parliamentarians. Knowing that it is all out of order and that we must therefore take these measures, do we want to give the Cabinet the opportunity to restrict these freedoms? Or do we just want to say to the cabinet that it has to make sure that all those things I just mentioned are in order? For then we do not need to restrict citizens' freedoms by means of a disproportionate law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u11	Finally. I am really grateful that Mr Markuszower says so firmly that if you look at it legally, we are also here as co-legislator, he will see that if measures are needed, this law regulates it better than it does now on the basis of the emergency regulation. This also serves the citizens. The question then is: are measures needed? On the question of whether it is proportionate under this law, you can judge as a parliament, more than is currently the case. So I would say: take a good look. I understand the stories that it is all wrong and that it was all wrong, but there has been a lot of work on improvements, by the government itself and by the parliament that has adopted all kinds of amendments. I would ask the PVV Group to consider whether it is not possible, with the law as it stands, to take a real step forward for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u12	Again, we are not here as lawyers. We are here as representatives of the people who must assess whether we want to restrict the constitutional freedoms of the Dutch. We say no to that. The law is now disproportionate and the reason for this is unnecessary if the cabinet had been in order. Is it better legal? First we were bitten by the dog as Dutch and now we are bitten by the cat as Dutch. It may be a slightly less harsh bite, but it is still disproportionate to "bite" Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u13	I'm trying to follow the PVV's point of view. I think the PVV's position on the corona measures is more erratic than the virus. In March and April it started with a total lockdown; everything had to be locked by the PVV. Now I hear total freedom; we cannot restrict people. If Mr Van der Staaij is quite right to ask whether Mr Markuszower does not see that this is a much better law, he says that it sees that too, but that he does not think it is proportionate. I can no longer follow the views of the PVV. What do you want? A total lockdown to fight the virus? Or do you want maximum freedom and say: leave it with the virus? What exactly is your position?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u14	What the PVV constantly wants in this corona crisis during this corona epidemic is maximum protection for all Dutch. That's what you do as a coalition party can do even more than I do by ensuring that there are sufficient testing possibilities and sufficient source and contact research. You do that by providing sufficient care staff. You do that by ensuring that regular care is not scaled down. You do that by making sure there are enough virus inhibitors. And you do that by having enough ICU beds and other hospital beds so you can treat people when they get sick. None of that is happening right now. In the dozens of corona debates we have had over the past period, we have called on the government to act precisely on these points. We do it all the time. As far as I am concerned, there is no question of whimsy. What we do not want is to restrict citizens' constitutional freedoms by means of a disproportionate law. Surely a party like D66 should agree with us on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u15	Of course, all those things that Mr Markuszower mentions must also be done. But the core of the virus measures is also that people keep distance from each other, do not come together in groups and do not do unwise things, because we know that that way you transfer the virus. For such measures, this law provides a legal basis. It is precisely as Mr Van der Staaij just said to Mr Markuszower: if a measure is laid down in a ministerial arrangement, it is up to the Chamber, if we adopt Mrs Buitenweg's amendment, to make an assessment as to whether it is proportionate or not. It is therefore very strange that Mr Markuszower says in advance that he does not want to do so. In doing so, he deprives himself of the judgment on this proportionality which he considers to be so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u16	I'm not taking anything away from you. That judgment can, of course, always be given. As a lawyer, you may also wonder why a temporary law is not sought a connection with an existing law. As a lawyer you can ask a lot of questions. But I don't see the point of taking anything from myself. If there is a debate on the proportionality of a measure, then we will simply have the debate. At this stage, the law that is now there is still disproportionate. That does not mean that once that law has been passed, we will not simply participate in the deliberations. I don't quite see that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u17	The latter is, of course, a profit, but Mr Markuszower's argument does not, of course, make any sense. If you don't support this law, you're in favour of the current system. The current system is that the VWS Minister gives an indication which is then laid down in 25 emergency regulations. In any case, we have all seen that both local and national democracy is out of the question. Mr Markuszower must therefore choose. If he feels that Parliament should be given a greater role in assessing the proportionality of the measures, it is obvious that he supports this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u18	No, what is obvious is that I, as a parliamentarians, will not first see how I can restrict the freedoms of citizens. That's not why I was elected. I did not think that should be the reason why Mr Grothuizen was elected. My primary task as a parliamentarians is to call on the government and, of course, to check part of it. That is what we are doing again on this occasion. We do that in all these corona debates: cabinet, make sure you have your things in order; make sure you have enough testing capacity; make sure you have enough source and contact research and make that work. It's not working. Make sure that there are sufficient care staff; there is no care staff. Make sure that regular care is not scaled down; Mr Rutte does not even want to guarantee that regular care is not scaled down. That's a much bigger disaster, isn't it? Just make sure there's no shortage of virus inhibitors. Just make sure there aren't too few beds and Ice beds. That's our primary task, isn't it? Surely we were not chosen here to restrict the fundamental rights of Dutch people through this disproportionate law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u19	Finally, Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u20	Finally, Mr President. Mr Markuszower always chooses one side of the spectrum. The PVV did that in the beginning by arguing for that total lockdown and she is doing that again. But, of course, it is a matter of balancing interests. It is a question of how to protect public health and how to do it in such a way that it limits as little freedom as possible and does as little damage as possible. It's in that balance of interests. I think that is the task of us as representatives of the people. I don't think that's the job of saying you're committed to one side of the spectrum and you're not looking at the other side anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u21	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u22	As a point of order, of course. It starts with the cabinet having to get things in order. If that's all settled, then we can always talk. Another law may be possible, but now it is not in order and the Dutch do not have to pay the price for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u23	I understand very well that Mr Markuszower wishes to call into question measures that have been taken. That's good, too. It should also be in a democracy that there is also a critical view and that the conversation is held with each other: is what is happening, proportionate or not? I also agree with him that we are not here as a lawyer, but as a representative of the people. Next, the question is how you want to fulfil that role as a representative of the people. Do you want to fill it out as it stands, where Mr Markuszower or Mr Wilders, his group chairman, is actually tied to the back with two hands in the Corona debates, can say something and find something, but can not do anything about it formally? Or does he want to fill that role as a representative of the people by formally having a role, so that, as a Chamber, if a measure is taken, you can say: we do not find this measure proportionate and we are not going to ratify it? In what way would Mr Markuszower prefer this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u24	This feels like a kind of quiz question to which only one normal answer is actually possible. As a parliamentarians, of course, you want to have comments and influence on every measure, every rule and every idea of such a government. So I don't really understand why I should want to choose one. Of course, it's option two, if it were a quiz question. There's probably a follow-up question. Well, I guess I'll just wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u25	I am glad that Mr Markuszower says "option two," because it is not a contradiction unless you choose the current situation. Commenting is one thing, but it's about influence. It's about whether you have a role as a parliament. We don't have one right now. With this law, even in an improved form with a number of amendments, if we adopt it together, you will have that influence. I am therefore very pleased that Mr Markuszower says that he actually wants to have that influence. Then there is only one possible conclusion, namely that the PVV also votes in favour of this law. Then we can still disagree on the measures. Then we can still have the debate on the proportionality of measures. But it would be a choice if you just said: yes, then I also voted for this law. Because then you have influence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u26	As a parliamentarians, of course, you always have influence. You don't have to choose a temporary law for that. The real influence that we need to use here is a pity that I do not have the VVD on my side.The cabinet is forced to make sure that this test capacity is in order, that the source and contact research is in order, that there are enough beds, that the virus inhibitors are there, that regular care is not scaled down and that there are sufficient care staff. These are, of course, the first things we have to do here as parliamentarians. Again, it's about the order we keep. We are all running because of course that is the easiest way out for the cabinet and coalition parties to move towards those restrictions of constitutional freedoms for the Dutch, whereas these restrictions would not be necessary if we were to use our influence or, as you wish, our formal power as a parliament to force the cabinet to put the matters that I have really mentioned in order a few times now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u27	Finally, Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mr Markuszower ends up again with: if we were to use our formal influence. That's what this law regulates, the formal influence. So you don't want it? So then you hang in there: if you say something, then you also have influence. That is exactly the difference between the PVV and the VVD: shouting something on the sidelines and thinking that you have influence. That's a nice thought, but I think it's about taking responsibility, and you can do that with this law. You will have real influence as a parliament and you can say to the cabinet: this measure goes too far; we are not going to ratify it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u29	It wasn't a question, either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u30	Mr Veldman of the VVD is only looking at the easiest way out. That is apparently the first route where the VVD is called "freedom," but they seem to have forgotten it when parliamentarians look at it by saying: we leave the cabinet alone; we do not force them to have the test capacity in order, to have the source and contact research in order, to ensure sufficient beds and to ensure that regular care does not scale down. We leave the cabinet, and you know what we do? We are simply restricting the fundamental rights of Dutch people. That's the easiest thing to do. We make a law, we make it legally sound, so we can all compliment each other on what great lawyers we're all here for. We'll make sure Professor Voermans is satisfied, too. Well, then we're all doing a hell of a job. Great, we've all arranged that and then the cabinet can sleep over and keep failing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u31	I find it interesting, because it is going to be a very legal debate. I am not a lawyer myself, but, of course, an emergency regulation must stop at some point and that should be a legal improvement. But first you have to assume there's an emergency. So the nice thing about such an emergency regulation is that it stops at some point, that it has to stop. The special feature of this law is that it does not stop and that Parliament is not consulted in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u32	And the question, Mr. Van Haga?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u33	Does Mr Markuszower agree with me that the essential difference between an emergency regulation and this law is that we are actually being sidelined?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u34	Then it will be a legal debate, which I should give a legal answer to. Strictly speaking, what you are saying does not seem to be entirely true, because every three months, when the Great Houses amendment is adopted, there is an extension moment and a stopping possibility, if I say it right out of my mind. Those emergency regulations weren't right. This law isn't right either. I also call the law disproportionate, because there is nevertheless the danger of a longer period of so-called emergency measures. But it's not like you're out of Parliament for a long time. I don't think it's that important to me, and then I'm gonna say it again, whether you're bitten by the dog or the cat. In version one of this law the minister was allowed to decide everything and now it is a number of coalition parties plus a number of opposition parties that can restrict the Constitution. As a politician, I don't think it's such an interesting difference with what's now on the table, but as a lawyer, you can say it's better framed now. I repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u35	I'll give you the floor in a minute, Mr. Van Haga. It is an important debate, so I haven't agreed on a maximum number of interruptions with you either, but that's not a free pass to keep endless introductions before a question is asked, and that goes for everyone. An interruption consists of a brief remark and a short question. That is also stated in the Rules of Procedure. I want everyone to stick to that. We're just getting started. Mr Markuszower has spoken for two minutes, but has been interrupted for almost half an hour. And if that's the way I see it, we have 15 or 16 speakers. So I appeal to everyone to be brief. Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u36	For the time being, the Buitenweg amendment has not been adopted. The law before us therefore does not at all offer the possibility of an extension of three months each. We have no say in that. My main question is: there must be a state of emergency, but how is it objectively established? Do you agree with me that this is a problem in this whole story, because we have no control over it at all when the law comes into force?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u37	The answer should be short, Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u38	Yes. I agree with Mr Van Haga that, if these measures are in place, Parliament should be given maximum time to properly assess the proportionality of each measure and the need for each measure. I myself do not think that this law is the best way to do this. I find this law disproportionate. I think there are other routes along which you can better frame that. What we must primarily focus on is that the cabinet is in order before we, as a Chamber, start looking at how quickly, and how far we are going to restrict the constitutional freedoms of citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u39	Mr Van Dam. A whole new question? Because this has changed enough. If we don't, we're gonna repeat ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u40	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I fully understand your concern, but at the same time I think that at the beginning of this debate a number of essentials emerge. As far as I am concerned, they need to be dealt with a little less down the road. As far as I'm concerned, no one has to interrupt me. I'd like to promise you that. Maybe that'll buy us some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u41	Well, that's a deal, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u42	I think I would like to make one point, and I would like to do so with Mr Markuszower. He presents himself here as the representative of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u43	I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u44	I notice that the debate is very much about people's freedoms. I'd like to present him with a case. My mother-in-law has pancreatic cancer. Now I happen to have a mother-in-law who's very nice. The whole family is walking on her toes to make sure we keep her with us as long as possible. What am I gonna do with all these people's freedoms? It's about caring for people. This law is about care. That's what he's talking about for me, anyway. Of course freedom is very important and of course freedom is also important if we are to work together here. But I look at this law from a completely different perspective than from the point of view that everyone can only experience their own freedom. Can you understand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u45	Yeah, I can understand anything. First of all, through the chairman, I wish your mother-in-law much strength. Individual cases are of course always... Again, good luck with that. What I would like to say is not about your mother-in-law, but there are also people in the Netherlands who have not yet been diagnosed with cancer by corona and who may be diagnosed too late. That's already playing. A lot of doctors have already called or reported in the media, and we could read that, "Their concern is that people with heart disease or people with cancer will be helped later or may not be helped, that their symptoms will get worse and that their mortality chances will increase. This means that they die earlier, that the treatment method is less successful or that they may suffer more. It's all about corona. And that's where my big concern is today. If we adopt this law, we will not force the cabinet to deal with these abuses, this problem. If we in Parliament all say, "Cabinet, make sure you have your affairs in order, ensure sufficient testing, ensure that regular care is not scaled down and ensure proper source and contact research," then we have that virus under control in a different way. If there are enough virus inhibitors, then maybe we have that virus in another way, maybe I'm not a predictor either, and then we don't have to restrict the freedoms of Dutch people. Above all, however, we will make sure that the cabinet puts things in order, because that is what we are forcing it to do. And then all those people who now have cancer, who haven't been diagnosed with it or who have heart problems, can just go to the doctor. They can go to the hospital. Then they can be helped. Because then, as a parliament, we have ensured that the Minister finally has enough beds and enough care staff. We'll have to do that first. This is the easiest route we're on. We make it easy for the cabinet, because they don't have to move on all those points I keep mentioning. And the Dutch pay the price for the malpractice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u46	Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u47	And then I stay away from the individual cases, because that is always difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u48	Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u49	It is not at all about individual cases. There are a lot of people in the Netherlands who have vulnerable health, who are in a vulnerable situation. I'd like to draw your attention to that situation. For those people, this law has meaning: it provides protection. And of course we want to do that in a way that is decent, that is democratic. But if we only focus on freedom and happiness and the "heepdeep hooray!" From the people who manage, we end up on the wrong side of the line.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u50	A brief response from Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u51	I can only say that neither I nor Mr Van Dam have a glass ball and know how it will all work out. At the moment, our group considers this law to be disproportionate, and believes that the cabinet should first have its own business in order, so that the Dutch do not pay the price for the mischief of the cabinet on that whole care world in general, and coronaspecific.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u52	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u53	A little further on than that, Madam President. In the Netherlands, see Article 113 of the Constitution, we agreed in principle that deprivation of liberty can only be imposed by the judiciary. Only in very special circumstances, such as a state of emergency as war, can some constitutional provisions governing citizens' freedoms be waived. If a citizen commits a crime, the judge can limit his freedom by, for example, giving him a prison sentence. But there is no crime committed by civilians at all now. The Dutch are victims. Victims of a virus, but also............................................................................................................................................................. There is no state of emergency now either. In addition, the current Public Health Act makes it possible for the person placed in isolation or quarantine to go to court. If this law is passed, policy-makers do not have to get their act together, then the pressure is from the kettle, and they continue to do what they have done so far, with all the consequences. In addition, the government will continue to underestimate the important role of aerogenic transmission, contamination of corona by microdrops, and this is also important. Because if corona spreads via microdrops and is therefore much more contagious than our government now recognises, then you must also acknowledge that the spread cannot be controlled by human behavior. There are certainly things you can and must do; other things than our government is doing now. Put in, I say to the government, for better ventilation for the indoor spaces. Bet on increasing ic capacity. Bet on getting more care staff. Let the Minister of Health test his affairs as much as quickly and quickly and get a well-functioning source and contact research in order. Bet on good treatment methods. Do not choose to have the Dutch pay the price for the failing cabinet policy. Because the cabinet refuses to admit that we no longer have 50% of the knowledge but now know much more about the virus, it continues to call for the wrong measures and insist that the present law is necessary. Our cabinet adheres to the present law of freedom-limiting measures, in which the government decides whether we can give each other a hand or a hug, and how much penalty will be on it if we do: €99, so they have invented, together with a few opposition parties. This law does not fit into a democratic rule of law, in which citizens' freedoms are protected by the Constitution. That Constitution was precisely intended to protect us from the whims of politicians. The cabinet has done a wrong job. This failure must not lead to the situation in which a number of ministers, not even parliament, are allowed to restrict the freedom of citizens. And precisely because of this injustice, the cabinet has lost its authority. And that lack of authority is trying to fix the cabinet with far-reaching means of power. But this is the Netherlands, not North Korea. For Rutte's ruins, the Rutte cabinet has to pay, not the citizens of the Netherlands. Democracy must not be the victim of the Corona epidemic. There is no scenario in which the PVV can agree to this disproportionate bill. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u54	Thank you. First of all, we are going to clean the chair and then I will give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. I give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen and she has given 45 minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u55	Yes, Mr President, I thought I'd take up my speaking time from last week. Mr. Chairman. Today and tomorrow, we are debating a law that is popularly called the emergency law. I myself see this law as a deceptive bad law which can only be given the predicate of a serious law by sticking the patches by the opposition. This cabinet and this minister in particular should be ashamed of this bill. This proposal is partly the cause of the terrible polarisation that is currently taking place in society. This proposal has led or inspired the so-called corona-wangs to the ground under the leadership or inspiration of their self-appointed foreman and now threatens health care professionals and politicians. A law that ensures that confidence in politics, in measures and in the belief that we should all do it together is completely lost in part of society. Such a law should never have been sent to the Chamber. In fact, the cabinet is doing well to come back to this, which is my call, precisely to restore solidarity and support within society. Since this Minister has admitted few mistakes, he will not do so now either. A number of opposition and coalition parties have already agreed on this law, so it will be put to the vote. So a number of opposition parties have reached agreement on amendments in negotiations with the coalition, which, for the most part, the critical scholars claim, have taken out the sting. However, I would like to stress that this agreement can be withdrawn just as easily. In fact, an opposition party has already indicated this. If there is a debate on divine services during this debate, the SGP will reconsider its support and perhaps withdraw it for the whole package. Maybe other parties will eventually find something else unspeakable and then the whole package will be called into question again, and that worries me. So we really need to discuss the law as it stands today, even without the amendments on which agreement has been reached. Until the individual amendments have been voted on and adopted, for which parties can therefore withdraw their support until the time of the vote, the law is as it was sent to the Chamber on 13 July. A bill that, even after its adaptation by the destructive judgment of the Council of State that Minister Hugo de Jonge sent back to the drawing board, is not at all at the state level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u56	It is, of course, quite true that we are discussing the law at the moment and that we will see in the votes whether the amendments are adopted. Suppose those amendments are adopted, which really is a good opportunity given the fairly broad signature, would the law, including those amendments, be sufficient for Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen to agree to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u57	It is not for nothing that I have written down with so much speaking time. Indeed, I am going to deal with all the amendments which I wholeheartedly support. I will support anything that makes this law better. The problem for me is that the very first version of the law has caused so much tension in society, that groups have come up against each other, caregivers are being called names and even politicians are being harassed on the street. There are a lot of tensions in society. I therefore blame the Minister for sending a first version of the law to the Chamber very prematurely. Of course, we must ensure that there is a much better democratic embedding of the measures we are taking. We in the Chamber must have the last word on this. But there are also a number of things in the law that I want to improve. I have a few amendments in preparation. Unfortunately, I have not yet been able to send it to the spokesmen. In my speech, I want to make it clear where my anger is about this law. The Minister has not taken the time to look very closely at such an important law and to feel how it is in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u58	I will hear your speech in detail in a moment. I understand the anger very well. I do, and I'll say the same in my contribution. At the same time, we have a joint responsibility here to see how we can increase acceptance if we truly want this to be a step forward. We must not only say 'hey, there is a polarisation going on' but also see what that means for how we can stand up here in the Chamber. Because if it is a step forward, your voice would certainly help to reduce polarization.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u59	Absolutely. I share that view. Only, it is very doubtful whether this is enough. I will explain how I see it in the course of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u60	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u61	The bill as it stands, without the amendments, gives the VWS Minister far-reaching powers to take far-reaching measures on his own. Some powers have been formulated so broadly that they run counter to democratic and constitutional principles enshrined in our Constitution and developed in case law over the last century and a half. I refer to the principle of legality, the principle of legal certainty and the primacy of the legislator. Democratic control is vital, especially now that the government has to take far-reaching measures in these times of crisis under high pressure. But even if all the amendments are adopted, this law affects fundamental rights. I call it the legal definition of the safe distance, the so-called open standard, without naming and defining the distance of 1.5 metres, or at all a distance that people should keep from each other in the streets. We don't know yet. Everything depends on the definition of safe distance in the general measure of governance. It is therefore a further development of this law, when it has already been adopted. Parliament has little to say about this. Does this really make it less intrusive, or does it mostly make the law unclear? Is it not true that an open standard, coupled with the restriction of fundamental rights, brings with it a great deal of uncertainty? As the RIVM boss Van Dissel pointed out several times during the technical briefings: "Yes, which is 1.5 meters... The WHO says 2 meters and in some countries they use different distances. It's a little arbitrary." But now, in all his wisdom, the Minister of VWS, heard the RIVM, states that Article 58f (2) will determine for the Dutch what distance to each other is a safe distance and in which situations that does and does not apply. I see an interruption coming, but okay. If this goes on for 45 minutes, I don't know if...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u62	No, you will have the floor in a moment, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u63	The open standard for safe distance in these emergency laws gives room and a legal basis for this. The same applies to measures that determine how much visit you may receive at home. They are now given a legal basis. This narrows and grinds down the house law contained in the Constitution. That brings me to democratic control. At the heart of our constitutional system is the fact that the Parliament takes part in the content of, participates in and participates in the decision on essential freedom measures through legal rules; on restrictions on our fundamental fundamental rights. So freedom can't be restricted without the consent of parliament. You can't just leave that to the Minister. It concerns far-reaching powers, which affect us all, in the hands of unelected ministers and unelected mayors. I do not see an adequate ID for that at the moment. Because with the version of the emergency law, like the one without amendments, which I would like to stress once again, the Minister of Health is given the power to impose measures on the population, for example on group formation and keeping away from them, by means of so-called ministerial regulations. The Lower House can then discuss this measure and submit motions, after which the Minister is asked to amend the measure or to abandon it altogether. But the minister, the cabinet, can ignore that. So even if the House of Representatives does not agree with the Minister's measures, these measures can continue. In addition, of course, we also have a coalition force, so that questionable measures can always count on striking votes. By the way, the cabinet can always ignore motions that have been adopted and, whether disguised or not, it can be said that it is impossible for all kinds of blurry reasons or that it is extremely difficult to respond to what the motion asks. Every Member of Parliament does have such a tray of adopted motions and commitments that can be called, e-mailed and recalled in any subsequent debate. But do it? Whoa, whoa, whoa, Parliament is given, if the amendment to item No. 30 of GroenLinks is believed to govern the Parliament's right of assent or ratification, which is still the last word. There would be no more decree management. The widely criticised and feared safety net provision of Article 58s comes out. No decree board, no sole rule of the minister, because if the minister wants to announce measures, the Chamber will have a week to reject them or agree to them. That works like this. The Minister invents a restriction of a fundamental right to which this emergency law gives him the opportunity. Parliament must then meet to ratify the measure. If this does not happen, the measure lapses. So, is the expectation, the minister looks out before he introduces anything. That sounds solid, but is it? At least it doesn't reassure me. This is the minister of the rushed balloons, such as the corona app which, as predicted, turns out to be a real privacy disaster in the early test phase, places people quietly in self-quarantine during false alarms and calls for testing even without complaints, while there is no test capacity and the GGD is totally overstretched and overloaded. Next, it is the same minister who points out so-called pretters as culprits for turning his own failing test policy into a chain of wrong decisions and orders people not to be tested without complaints. Bye-bye app, you'd think. No. The law for that nasty app has been passed in the Lower House and also in the Upper Chamber. He's gonna be rolled out nationwide. A failed test balloon by two Chambers cycling, is apparently no problem for this minister. I hold my heart to the open standards and far-reaching possibilities for freedom-limiting measures that this Corona Law offers. After all, as agreed with a number of opposition parties who are about to vote in favour of the law, if there is any immediate danger, the Minister may immediately announce a measure that will enter into force immediately, and Parliament can only refer the measure to the trash after a week. In my view, however, it was precisely the whole point of the Corona Law that this law is necessary for the legal embedding of freedom-limiting measures, because corona poses a direct danger to society, to public health, and in particular to the weak and vulnerable in society. In the media the example of the hospitality closure was given last March. But can the Minister just explain to me very clearly what he thinks is a directly dangerous or an indirectly dangerous COVID-19 situation? And is that gonna be filled out somewhere? Or is that once again a matter for the Minister's discretion in each individual case? In that case, I am afraid to do so, because I can still recall some nasty semantic discussions with this minister, for example about the definition of "volatile contact" between a care worker and older proven corona patients in a nursing home. We have had a whole debate here in the Chamber with the Prime Minister about the blunder that RIVM, in the field of source and contact research, has identified as "close direct contact" persons who have been within 1.5 metres for more than five minutes. At the same time, this minister tells healthcare workers who are constantly in volatile contact within 1.5 metres throughout the day and have to work with coughing and sneezing corona patients: all of this is fine without personal protective equipment. That's safe, because yes, "volatile contact," how do you mean? While, to date, there is still no sharing with the Chamber where that "volatile contact" criterion came from, on the basis of which scientific studies the directive was drawn up stating that personal protective equipment was not necessary, and on the basis of which it was suddenly adapted. These are semantic games the minister's trained in. With these semantic games and this shit with people's health, I'm really done. In the case of the Corona Problem Law, I foresee all the bumping around with terms and restrictions of freedom, which are then, and then again are not, ratified by the Chamber. Can the Minister clearly and clearly define what is directly and indirectly at risk in relation to the measures which he can take under the provisions of this emergency law? We'd better get that straightaway. Speaking of clarity, I refer to Articles 58d and 58e, on the powers of the chairman of the security region and the differentiation and derogations. An amendment from the CDA has already been tabled to that effect. That is what I would like to say briefly about the extension of democratic control over the exercise of powers transferred to the President of the security region. I wholeheartedly support that. But last week there were more criticisms and concerns about these two articles in the Emergency Act, by the VNG, the Aldermen's Association, the Security Council and the Dutch Society of Mayors. They clearly have concerns about local customization, which is made conditional on the Minister's decision to give this power to the mayor. There are concerns about the coordination, enforcement and implementation of the measures. There are concerns about confusion in society about its lack. About the coordinating role of the President of the security region, which seems to be insufficiently anchored. On democratic legitimacy at local level, which is not sufficiently guaranteed. On the maintenance of safe distance and on the formation of groups in the case of students. Finally, there are questions about the interpretation of the autonomous administrative power of municipalities, namely what scope is actually left for that under this emergency law. Mr. Chairman. It is hard for ordinary people to follow, but now that it is also inimitable at this level of security regions and municipalities, I would like to ask the Minister to write a manual specifically for Articles 58d and 58e, a clear roadmap, on what should be done on a decentralised basis with this regulation. I have also spoken to a state law professor about this. He also says that the risk is being taken here, which is in fact inevitable that the layers of government are going to collide. The direction is incredibly clumsy. Can the Minister, therefore, put together a manual with great urgency, but of course with great care? Mr. Chairman. Finally, on Article 58 (1) (a), I would like to say why there is a further piece of age discrimination in this area. What the hell is that for? How far does that go? It goes against Article 1 of the Constitution. I'm also looking at 50PLUS with a oblique eye. Perhaps we could work together to put together another amendment to get that age discrimination out of that article of the law. On the interim article 58g about group formation I will come back to the end. I hear Mrs. Kuik say "58a." Excuse me? I'm on it, Mr. Chairman. On Article 58g, on group formation, I will come back to the end. Article 58o. I welcome the 50PLUS amendment which regulates that nursing homes are no longer in overall lockdown where residents can no longer see any loved or caregiver. I very much support that. On Article 58p concerning passenger transport, I have a specific question for the Minister. Is my lecture that paragraph 2 provides the opportunity to deviate from the fact that people from one household can sit together in a car? I find that rather complicated: exception to exception. The outside guard, the people at home, doesn't understand anything about this. Can the Minister explain clearly in what specific situations he wishes to make use of this possibility and what this will help in the fight against the virus? That's not gonna make it any easier. Shouldn't that exception just come out all the way? I would be happy to table an amendment on that today. Mr. Chairman. I come to Rule 58t, on accountability and information. Paragraph 1 states: "Our Minister shall send monthly to both Chambers of the States General a reasoned statement of the measures in force under this Chapter." Excuse me? That's how I ask the Minister. Monthly? It seems as if the Minister wishes to do us a favour, but I hope the Minister is aware that this article is actually a restriction on the right of the Chamber to information, the well-known Article 68 of the Constitution. A motion of running mate Vice-President Pieter Omtzigt has recently been adopted in Parliament. So this is a cigar out of its own box and quite misplaced. I have an amendment in preparation to restore this. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the so far draconian corona fines. This includes, among other things, the rattle of Article 68a, the criminal record and the triple stroke of Minister Grapperhaus. I would like to think a little bit more about that. I would like to take a quick look back at the Corona Fine and last month's Grapperhaus debate for the people at home. That was an embarrassing debate on the violation of all kinds of corona measures by the Minister of Justice and Security, by the guests at his own wedding and not to mention by his Secretary of State Ankie Broekers-Knol, whose role in all this was hardly or hardly addressed to my stupid surprise. However, as far as I am concerned, the Minister's credibility was torn apart, and he took the credibility of the corona measures into his trap. And he put enforcers in an impossible position. Boa's stopped spending a lot of money on fines. The Chamber gave another boost, and the corona fine policy, which was previously unspeakable and steadfastly harsh, is now on the move. At the urgent request of the Court, the high fines for violating the one-and-a-half-meter measure, as well as the notes on the judicial document, will be removed. It has also been announced that, in accordance with motions adopted by the Chamber, regulations will be made to remove the registrations of violations of regional covide emergency regulations which have been included in the judicial documentation. I ask the Minister of Justice and Security what is going on with these regulations to remove the notes. And does the Minister also intend to reduce the already imposed €390 corona fines to the amount of €95, as will be regulated by law for future corona fines? Mr. Chairman. In particular, in the first months of the corona crisis, approximately 17,000 criminal orders were issued for a violation of a rule in the covide emergency regulations, such as the fine for the violation of the safe distance standard or the one and a half meter measure, and a violation of the ban on group formation that is closely related to this. In the meantime, 6.872 oppositions have been made against these corona fines. Before that, in the last few days, the first people were in court. The day before yesterday 22 people fought their corona fine at the canton court in Arnhem. By far the majority of people are not assisted in their corona case by an attorney. They therefore stand without a lawyer, alone in court, leaving legal defenses undisputed. I'm very sorry about that. The most up-to-date political situation, such as no criminal record and possibly a lower fine, was also discussed at the hearing. What does the Minister of Justice and Security think about most people without lawyers being brought to justice? People who, due to a corona fine, have to appear before the canton court do not, in principle, receive compensation for a lawyer because it is a motto: for the canton court you have to be able to defend yourself. This is often about traffic fines and other minor penalties. But these corona fines are basic discussions, discussions about whether an emergency regulation has been able to serve as a basis for restricting fundamental rights. That's what we're talking about in the Chamber today, and that's why we're dealing with this emergency bill. Anyone who wishes to take a lawyer to the canton court after a criminal offence and cannot afford to do so can in principle ask the Legal Aid Council to make an exception. But hardly anyone knows that. The argument may be that this is a particular factual or legally complex case, and that is the case in this case. Does the Minister agree with me that, now that there is a fundamental state-of-the-art discussion in this case, people need a lawyer in corona fine cases? Will the Minister undertake to discuss this matter with the Legal Assistance Council as soon as possible? Will he also promise that people who want a lawyer to assist them in a corona fine case but cannot pay them will receive compensation, as is the case with criminal cases? Mr. Chairman. Now that a regulation is being drafted to delete the note on the judicial document also for the corona fines already imposed, I ask the Minister whether he will do the same for the amount of fines already imposed. That seems fair to me. Does the Minister agree with me and, if so, how will he achieve that? Mr. Chairman. Just going through those corona fines. [[Sentence could not be parsed: De minister had het tijdens het debat met deze Kamer ineens over een drieslag van aanspreken, waarschuwen en pas daarna beboeten.]] The Minister was very much in favour of this. During the debate on 2 September, he said that police and boas enforcement policy was based, and has always been, on these three strikes. It would also be in the work instruction of the boas. Which one he didn't know exactly, but the so-called three-stroke was definitely in it. It would still be sent to the Chamber, but the letter of the Chamber on the enforcement of the corona rules does not come back to those three strokes. Nor have I been allowed to receive a boa directive in this letter of inquiry, despite my repeated enquiries at the interrupting microphone. The Minister also said, in reply to my questions, that the prosecution will review the three-step decision when assessing the criminal decisions and not prosecute them. I quote the Minister: 'There is the first filter between the Public Prosecutor's Office of Fines, which the Public Prosecutor's Office says has not been properly followed in our view'. But now it turns out that in the first corona cases last week at the court of the Central Netherlands in Utrecht, the prosecutor firmly distanced himself from that three-stroke of Minister Grapperhaus. The prosecutor explicitly and unequivocally distanced himself from the three strokes of appeal, warning and enforcement mentioned by Minister Grapperhaus. He said at the sitting: 'This is incorrect and not a policy from which rights can be derived'. The judge finally said: "A cop or boa can give a warning for an offense, but it is not mandatory." How does the Minister feel about that? In what light should we see its repeatedly firmly laid down three strikes? Mr. Chairman. This is a very important point. A criminal attorney with whom I had contact during the debate about these statements suggested that you, Minister, made up this three-stroke on the spot to save your own ass. Also, you would not be punishable because the intention to violate the corona rules lacked the intention. If it's not my intention to run a red light but I do it by mistake and get flashed, I get a fine, because I'm committing an offense. In the case of a felony, the intention is an argument. I also asked the Minister during that infamous debate: should the Minister agree with me that the dependence on your intention, that intention criterion, goes against our order of offences and crimes? It just didn't add up, the minister was just saying something. Once again, he misinformed the Chamber. I think that's very gracious, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, the Minister was absolutely certain that it should be in the intention of the offender to violate the corona rules. Otherwise, the prosecution would not be prosecuted and the judge would also have to come to the conclusion that no corona fine would be imposed. But the D.A., through the district attorney's office, said in a court hearing, "that intention of the offender or the deliberate committing of the offence does not play any role in the assessment of the offender's criminality." I'm looking at the Minister in the eye, because this really isn't possible. The Minister is the Minister of Justice and Security, the Minister who makes the rules himself. He repeatedly violates his own corona measures and lies to the Chamber about them. When the Chamber calls him to account, he sucks out an all-encompassing boa-drift and an intensity criterion on the spot. Mr. Chairman. I would like to remind the Minister what Mr. Corstens, former chairman of the Supreme Court, the highest judge in the Netherlands, thought of your actions. In any case, his handbook on Dutch criminal law law had to teach the Utrecht law student a piece. I have a great deal of respect for him. I'm sure the Minister remembers what this lawyer said, so I don't have to quote him. But aren't you ashamed? Mr. Chairman. I'd like to help the Minister. I have an amendment in preparation which incorporates the three-stroke of the Minister and the requirement of the intention to violate the corona measures into this emergency law. Because, after the determination of the Minister, I can only conclude that this is a considerable omission which must be restored immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u64	I see Mrs Buitenweg, Mr Grothuizen and Mr Van Dam. Mrs. Buitenweg still? No? Then there is Mr Groothuizen. I would like to point out that we also have to keep it a bit businesslike and that we are addressing the rulers and each other, not the person, but above all the content. Mr. Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u65	I have to say that I occasionally had some difficulty following the argument, which seemed to bounce back and forth. It was a bit as if Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen had invented that she was against the law, while, according to her, there are quite a lot of good elements in the amendments that lie there, after which she wanted to try to tell a lot of negative things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u66	No, absolutely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u67	Let me ask one specific question. It has been a while, but Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen explained what Mrs Buitenweg's amendment means. That amendment therefore gives the Chamber the opportunity to say something crazy in such a ministerial arrangement, if we believe that the VWS Minister, in the words of Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, is doing something crazy and is thus messing with fundamental rights: no, we are not going to do that. She then made a full statement that the Minister would do all these crazy things. But that is, of course, a little strange, because she had just found that the amendment states that we have the last word. Does Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen recognise that this is precisely at the heart of the amendment and that it meets her concerns in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u68	I wholeheartedly support the amendment. That is what I said and let us be clear about it. It gives Parliament a little more say. It gives Parliament a week to ratify a measure. At least that is as I understood the amendment. If we in Parliament reject this measure, it will lapse and the Minister may have to come up with a new measure. I think that democratic embedding is very valuable and I fully support it. My only objection is that in recent months, during the entire corona crisis, this minister has shown that he was behind the facts. There are always indications of other causes which have led to the failure of this policy. The Minister does not seem willing to acknowledge his own part in this. I think that this is detrimental, also to the support of society for these measures. I am afraid that if we have a week to ratify measures which, in my opinion, are actually a bit like sticking patches on policies that have already gone wrong and there are hurry-up all kinds of things to stop the virus from escalating and exploding... Yeah, I find that a little... yeah... difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u69	The response must be really short, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u70	Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u71	You have the most speaking time in the entire Chamber: 45 minutes. No one has. Then you should not also reply in detail, because then we will have one speaker for half a day. That's not fair to others either. Mr Groothuizen, a brief question as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u72	Short question. Mrs. Van Kooten-Ariës stays in that gap. She gives an appreciation of the Minister's corona policy. I'll leave that for a while. The fact remains, however, that the law, with Mrs Buitenweg's amendment, simply gives the Chamber the opportunity to say 'ho, we are not going to do that' if it thinks that the ministers are going to be three, plus the minister involved. That is a fundamental concession, and in fact it solves your objections to this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u73	Not all of them. I think it is very important that it be embedded and that we in the Chamber have something more to say, that we should ratify the decision or be able to withdraw it within a week after an emergency. It may be my fault, but I simply have very little faith in the measures and the way in which everything has gone into this corona crisis. With care, with the test policy and with all kinds of restrictions of freedoms so ambiguous that no one understands...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u74	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u75	Finally. I don't follow. You have a situation, you improve that situation, you improve that situation one more time so that Parliament is ultimately the one to say whether something is a good idea or not. And Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen would still have a problem with that, wouldn't she? I kind of lost my way in her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u76	I don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u77	I share a bit of concern or what has been expressed by Mr Grothuizen. You may not have faith in the Minister of Health. Firstly, compared with the previous law, it has changed that it is not only the Minister of Health who decides whether a regulation will come into force, but several ministers and 'with feelings of the Council of Ministers'. I think that is very specific. Everything is felt, but well, it's not just the minister. Then there is a proposal that comes to the Chamber so that we can say whether or not we agree with it. It determines whether an arrangement will enter into force. You must at least have faith in us, as a parliament, and in yourself as a representative of the people...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u78	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u79	...that that's what determines it? This is therefore a major step forward in relation to the current situation. Then why does it matter if you have faith in the Minister? It is about whether you have faith in Parliament to have the courage to say yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u80	I support that. I understand that, too. Of course, I have faith in Parliament. The point is that it is also about a piece of imagery towards society. I have outlined that different groups have been set opposite. The first version of the law, on which the amendments have fortunately been a major improvement, has led to enormous polarisation in society. We're gonna have to fix that right now with patches sticking. I'd like to address that. Yes, of course I am very much in favour of having a much better democratic embedding as a parliament, but that does not make up for the law. You have to look at the policy first and in my opinion we do not need an emergency law in this form, but rather an emergency course in crisis management to communicate how you allow certain measures to land properly in society. As far as I am concerned, there is a real problem, and this is not going to solve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u81	Yeah, but then I hear a lot of different signals. On the one hand, there should have been a good law in the first place, says Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. But why, because you also say that the real problem is that policy should be better in order, as the PVV also says. So at first you didn't need a law at all. In that respect, it goes back and forth a little bit. If the amendments are adopted, we have a law that guarantees democracy. I would like to ask one point, because I think it is also important that we all read the law well with the amendments, precisely in order to combat polarisation. I agree with you that polarization is a worrying thing. I understand that you are considering tabling an amendment to the monthly information. Of course, it does not replace our normal right to information under Article 68 of the Constitution. Madam President, if that were the case, it would be completely insane. It is not instead, but it is something the Council of State has proposed to add to our instruments of parliament, so that we not only get to see each ministerial arrangement separately, but also a comprehensive review once a month. That gives us more opportunities to exercise real influence. I would ask Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, together with us, to look again closely at both what is in the law and what the changes are, precisely because of the desire to inform everyone in the country and thus to reduce the unrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u82	It is stated in Article 58 (1) that our Minister shall send monthly to both chambers of the States General a reasoned statement of the measures in force under this Chapter. Mrs Buitenweg can read that as an overview, as an addition to what the Chamber was already entitled to under Article 68 Constitution. And it may be that the Minister says: that's right, it's definitely a supplement and extra. But the crazy thing is, I've been talking about it with state law professor Wim Voermans, that it's actually a cigar out of its own box. We had that right a long time ago. Why would you do that this way, on that monthly basis? It doesn't say that it's a complete document of everything we already knew about the last month. It's kind of a gesture to us. It is a kind of summary document on which the active information of the Chamber is based: daily and at times when requested. But it doesn't say that. You can read it like a containment. I would like to ask the Minister specifically whether it is intended to do so. If not, can we change it somehow or put it somewhere in the explanatory statement, so that it is absolutely meant to be? This is a little vague.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u83	Finally, Mrs Buitenweg, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u84	Finally, I would like to draw Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's attention to what the Council of State has said. It says that in this crisis, of course, the normal information obligation of ministers vis-à-vis Parliament under Article 68 of the Constitution applies. But it is also said that, given the unique circumstances, it is good to include a specific information obligation for the government in the legislative proposal for both chambers, so that they have a broad overview. The government did. I would like to call on Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen not to amend this proposal from the Council of State, which has just been added and which is an explicit addition to Article 68 of the Constitution, in order to remove it, because then we would take another step backwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u85	I absolutely don't want to take it out. I would like to amend it so that it is clear that it is exactly what the Council of State is asking. The Council of State did indeed ask it that way. I ask the Minister to make it a real addition. Again, I have spoken with state lawyers and this can indeed be read as a restriction. I think that with such an important law, you should take a moment to look carefully at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u86	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u87	Mr. Chairman. Whether you restrict your fundamental rights with or without a democratic deficit, with or without a basis in formal legislation, your fundamental rights will be restricted. This restriction of fundamental rights will soon become a reality if the opposition parties have allowed themselves to change their minds, because that is what it feels like rather than putting into a formal law long-term emergency regulations which are not really the right legal means to do so. Because that is what society feels: fundamental rights are being restricted. And whether that is by means of emergency regulations that I absolutely do not support, or later by means of a law that increases polarisation in society...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u88	I'm really offended by that right now. It's said that we've had a change of heart. That would be the case if we had had a lot of criticism, then we were told that we should not be faint or pressured and then we would agree to the same proposal. I believe that the proposal, as amended by seven amendments and eight parties, has been widely recognised, including by Mr Voermans, whom you have referred to a number of times. This has really improved on crucial points and can pass the test of criticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u89	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u90	Then it cannot be said that the opposition has allowed itself to change its mind. The opposition, together with the coalition, has done its work here in the Lower House to reform that law. Does Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u91	I very much agree with that and I myself am very much working to make this law better, but that is the way society is looking at this law. There are a lot of people watching and they think: they want to push us through an emergency bill. And as for the spokesmen, Jesse Klaver was also very critical. He said, "It's a decree board." That was about a different version, but isn't this law too much damaged to send it to the Chamber in any form at all? Shouldn't the Minister say: okay, I'm going to take a very good look at it again and I'm going, even without amendments, to incorporate everything into the law, so that we don't have to vote on it; I'm really coming back to the Chamber with a fully adapted law and I can explain that it doesn't resemble the version of that law in any way? That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u92	Fine. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u93	It does not make policy easier or easier to understand. It now says in the emergency law that the minister may decide that you can't eat a cake with your parents on a bench, but by compulsion you can't get the Dutch people any better and sooner. Also with the corona law that provides the legal embedding of the fight against the coronavirus, there remains social confusion about the corona measures. It's not gonna be taken away with this. I hope the fellow speakers will see that as well. The many exceptions, whether regional or non-regional, undermine a clear crisis approach by the cabinet. This turned out last Sunday in Staphorst, where three busy church services, each with about 600 attendees, led to great social unrest and discussions about: why churches did and why not cafes, restaurants and pop stages? Why is a covenant signed with churches and the conversation entered into and why does all other meetings at locations have a maximum of 30 people? There's no way to explain that. Freedom of association is also a fundamental right that is restricted by it. There are also associations that share a certain meaning in their meetings. It is also for the protection of people in churches if you limit the number of churchgoers. And singing modestly is still singing. Singing in a stadium, in the open air, may be even less dangerous than in a closed church room. Mr. Chairman. No one understands anything anymore. I understand perfectly well that no one understands it anymore. Surely one fundamental right cannot be more important than the other? I have an amendment in preparation and in draft ready to delete that exception of churches from Article 58g (2) (c). But it takes a lot of keying, because I have been told that a restriction of this fundamental right, freedom of religion, must be contained very specifically in a law in a formal sense and not in lower regulations, such as a ministerial regulation. Apparently, for freedom of association, you can. It will be examined and the amendment will be on the side of the spokesmen as soon as possible. As I have just said in an interrupting debate, I have to confess in all honesty that I believe that the cabinet does not need a corona law of fortune in this form, but a corona flood course around crisis communication. How do you include people in the policy needed to overcome the corona crisis? How do you communicate clearly, unequivocally and for everyone to understand? How do you ensure that people regain confidence in the government, who, in this crisis, made totally inimitable choices for the average Dutchman and took totally inimitable, unclear measures that demanded everything from people? People have gone to extremes and still do so to defeat the corona virus together. But many people have been alone in recent months: only with their fear, only in self-quarantine, only with their mourning for lost loved ones or the loss of their own health, only in their despair for finance, the loss of their job or late payments of rent or mortgage, only in their search for the truth behind the twist and lying of this cabinet. Nothing "together"! Nor does this emergency law show solidarity, compassion and a sense of feeling. This is, with all due respect, art and flying to repair the stings that the cabinet has dropped since the start of the corona crisis. If the cabinet cannot convince the people with valid arguments and with clear policy, it will apparently fall into compulsion and brutal attraction. I see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u94	Yeah, me too, but I'm also curious how far...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u95	I'm almost done. So I can finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u96	Then I suggest you do that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u97	We need more democracy than less democracy in these difficult times. We are dealing with a cabinet that has to take far-reaching measures, and that is quite obvious. Parliament is particularly important in these times. We need more control and more transparency, including for the press. I ask the Minister about the execution of my adopted motion on the no longer suspending of the WOB requests by the press at the VWS Ministry. How's it going? I don't get a lot of hopeful noises about these WOB requests. Can the Minister give an update on that? Mr. Chairman. As I pointed out at the beginning, this bill needs to be improved. It should be improved immediately and not with amendments. It needs to be written down right away, because this crisis certainly needs a democratic foundation, a good law that makes it clear to everyone, a law that exudes that we all do it together and that we are all equal. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u98	Thank you. Mr Van Dam and then Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u99	I understand that Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, of course, has been a much better minister of know-how to combat this crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u100	Well, I'm not saying that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u101	I think we ended up with a ministry of V, a ministry of W and a ministry of S, because there's gonna be some cracks in the middle of the game. My point is that you begin your story by saying that this law has led to enormous polarization in the Chamber or in society. I do not know whether Mr Van der Staaij will be pleased to do what we have to do: take our responsibilities. I say that not only to you, but also to others. That's pretty special. I am also quite proud that we, as a Chamber, are doing this with each other in the midst of such a crisis. I have no idea at all that we are doing this against the cabinet; I have the impression that we are doing that to the cabinet. You hardly let yourself out on the amendments that are before you. Are you also able to join the coalition and take responsibility together to ultimately achieve what you want against polarisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u102	Absolutely. If I may sign your amendment and all the other coalition and opposition amendments that make the law better... I've been watching them all and I've been very supportive of them all. I've got a few in the making myself. Yes, of course, we also need to get to a better law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u103	Okay, well, then that's a short answer, too, Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u104	Another service announcement to keep me from hanging on to something I didn't want to hang on to later. I would like to see your amendments first. In any case, I am not going to begin with an amendment on the erasing of the philosophy of this law. I'll tell you in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u105	I understand that from your background.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u106	I understand the point made by Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. We're all getting tons of e-mails about people who are worried. That's right. I liked to hear that you are positive about our amendment on visiting rights. You are right to make a point, which we are right to be critical of, about age guidelines. At the moment there are also differences. I will question the Minister critically on that in a moment. Can you imagine that there are different agreements for schoolchildren than for the nursing homes, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u107	Yes, I can imagine that, but if it says so explicitly that age-based discrimination can occur, the alarm bells will go off on me. Then I'm thinking of a two-track society. Then I think of the people who have sent me e-mails and say: I've been in self-quarantine for so long because I have a fragile health; I'm afraid I'm going to be completely locked up, that the others can go out again and that it can be completely released, but that I'm left all alone. That is also a very legitimate fear of people. If it has been proven beyond doubt that certain freedoms can be given to young people and that as a result older people or the most vulnerable in society are not further affected by the virus, then of course I fully support it. But if age discrimination is mentioned in this law so specifically, so separately, so that'measures can be taken to that effect', then I think it is too broad. In that case, the Minister can clearly state what he wants with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u108	On this issue of age discrimination, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen naturally finds us on her side. The Prime Minister has made it quite clear: we are not going to experience a division in our society, where the elderly have to stay inside and the rest go on cheerful. He said that very explicitly. Does Mrs Van Kooten say in her speech just now that she doesn't trust that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u109	I'd really like to trust that, of course. He also said it, and I heard it very well. But more things have been said, also about testing policy: everyone can get tested; we have a corona app. That is what I said in my contribution. Anyone could have been tested, including those without complaints. It has been said that, precisely to protect the weak and the vulnerable in your immediate vicinity, we have an app that indicates that you've been near a corona patient and that you need to get tested. And then there is no test policy and then it could have been done sooner. So I'm struggling very hard with this, with the good intentions, and the ultimate effect. So I'd really appreciate it if the Minister could clarify that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u110	Okay, thank you. No, Mr. Van Groothuizen. Really? Well, let's go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u111	One question. If I sum up your position with 'I agree with those amendments, which also makes the law much better, but I am opposed to them because of the image in society', do I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u112	No, because that's too short a turn. That is why I have asked for so much speaking time. I am in favour of everything that makes the law better, but I actually think that the Minister should have said a little bit more repeatedly: okay, this was wrong; I'm going to explain it to society, I'm going to work with communication crisis management to explain that I made a mistake here, that I submitted the wrong law, and I'm going to encrypt it completely, including all the opposition and coalition amendments. Then there is a law that is clear and clear. There's gonna be a clear playbook...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u113	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u114	...for the local, local and administrative authorities, so that they don't come into conflict with each other. And then we have a law that we need.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u115	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, thank you very much. First, we are going to clean the chair again, and then I will give the floor to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u116	Madam President. This temporary law to contain the coronavirus is disproportionate in our view. No matter how serious the virus is and how many challenges we face, it is disproportionate when it comes to what these ministers will be able to impose on us all, and disproportionately because it partly puts our parliamentary democracy aside. In spite of all the important amendments tabled by colleagues who make the law a lot less far-reaching, I do not see any good for the time being, because the principles are not good. This applies first and foremost to the application of criminal law. Criminal justice is a serious weapon. In general, everything else has to be done before the government resorts to criminal law. It's an ultimatum remedium. This is particularly true when it comes to our health. In that case, criminal law is not the first thing I would think of. Now corona fines are issued on the basis of emergency regulations and the Code of Criminal Law stipulates that violations of emergency regulations are punishable. With this bill, criminal law is specifically linked to the behaviour to combat corona. The question that needs to be asked immediately is whether the government has done everything it can to prevent the use of criminal law. Has the government done everything to contain the virus with measures other than criminal law? In our opinion, that is not the case. The mantra "taking 100% of the decisions with 50% of the knowledge" was quite different in neighbouring Germany, for example. There the government has been able to take appropriate measures to make the virus manageable. Germany continues to colour yellow, the Netherlands red. Under the supervision of this cabinet, the second wave washes over us. The Dutch are then told by the director of the RIVM Centre on Infection Disease Control, Mr Van Dissel, that it is mainly because of our behaviour. That's the same Van Dissel who said at the beginning of the corona crisis that we should celebrate carnival. It became a very important "super spread event" at the start of the Corona epidemic in the Netherlands. That's why we're afraid the government didn't do everything it could to contain the virus. There were supposedly no mouth caps needed in nursing homes, but the real reason turned out to be that they just weren't there. As we suggested, there will be no separate hospitals for the seriously ill corona patients. Instead, ordinary care is scaled down again. For example, people who need chemotherapy, a new hip or a heart surgery get into trouble, sometimes even literally dangerous. And now it turns out there's another shortage of the virus inhibitor brake desivir. Has the government been making every effort to contain the virus? We don't believe it. And now the same government is ready to fight the outbreak with criminal law. Moreover, criminal law requires extreme clarity. The rules must be ready for everyone in all situations. What can you do and what can't you do? The behavioral measures we have seen so far have sometimes come out of a box. The communication on this issue was unclear. Even per measure we were in suspense for the TV during the press conferences: what will it be? You couldn't keep up. At first, it was "no working mouths," then it was "well in public experience and not in nursing homes, nor in home care." And then it became possible for everyone and now there is an urgent advice to wear mouth caps. Where, when and by whom, that is the question. At some point, no one knew what was being asked for and why. The entire catering industry suddenly had to close an hour earlier while everything was put on everything to especially adjust the restaurants to the one and a half meter measure. What I've seen over the past few weeks doesn't reassure me. It borders on randomness. We now feel like a toy in the nervous hands of the cabinet. A cabinet that does not shy away from criminal law and even shows arbitrariness in its application. Has the infringement of the one-and-a-half-meter rule recently become less serious and has the fine therefore been reduced? Mind you, it's not just a reduction, but a huge difference, from €390 to €99. The fines have not been reduced because keeping away on closer inspection is not so essential, but because the Minister of Justice committed an offence. Suddenly you don't get a criminal record because the minister made the same mistake. We can be long or short about it, it's a fact. If the Minister of Justice hadn't been caught, the fine wouldn't have been reduced. I call that arbitrary, and that should be a curse in criminal law. Another example, the church in Staphorst. The Minister of Justice allowed 600 people in, an exception because it was a church. When a storm of criticism broke loose, a conversation followed and it suddenly changed again. If there's anything unbelievable, then it's swaggering policy. An example of how you deal with criminal law or not, the government's most imaginable instrument. The rules were not well thought out and are still not well thought out. And what is worse, this cabinet has in our view not done enough to stay away from criminal law. Germany also has a strict penalty regime, but the government has done everything it can to contain the virus. In the field of source and contact research, the army was deployed to avoid unnecessary burdens on health workers and to keep them ready for the tasks that they do need very much. I know it bothers some people, but I would like to mention Taiwan, the country with 22 million inhabitants on a territory smaller than the Netherlands, which, despite its high population density and frequent contacts with China, was already able to control the virus immediately. The cabinet refused to look specifically at their approach. The safety net article is also a wrong starting point. There is no guarantee in this law that the measures and their communication will be consistent from now on. On the contrary, there are all kinds of open standards, for example about distance and group formation. In the safety net clause, everything is left open. It means that measures other than those mentioned in the law can also be taken. These additional measures may be introduced per ministerial arrangement. If these ministers consider it necessary to introduce an unforeseen measure, they can do so without consulting the Chambers in advance and without the Council of State's opinion. It's a carte blanche for measures we don't know yet. There is an amendment by Van der Staaij and Van Brenk to ask the Council of State for an opinion, but of course the whole point is wrong. The Van Raak amendment deletes the safety net and I think that is indeed much needed. What other measures would the safety net require? What measures really need to be taken with experience abroad? I am thinking of observing extra personal hygiene, wearing protective equipment, smaller groups and greater distance, testing, testing and testing, staying at home in case of complaints and quarantine at home, to name but a few meaningful behavior measures. What can be added, then, that we have absolutely no knowledge of now and that we cannot name now? Does Germany or Taiwan do something that we have no knowledge of at all? Well, I don't think so. The safety net clause doesn't rule anything out. It's a back door in the law to push measures through quickly. And the only requirement that the law imposes on the measure is that it should be proportionate to contain the epidemic. But that's a vague notion, "equanimous." The fine of €1,600 for eating a pastry on the street find very few people proportionate. That insane fine is not being removed, even though Minister Grapperhaus, with the reduction of the fine, acknowledges that it was not proportionate and therefore not proportionate. The condition of proportionality is, we believe, a wash nose. Let me give you a few examples of possible measures that this law can bring to our attention. For example, it is conceivable that the corona app will become mandatory. That corona app is not working properly and is not going to work optimally either because the underlying technique is not suitable for measuring distance. Nevertheless, the Minister has been holding onto it for months and the law has now been passed by the Chambers. In his own evaluation it says that the app gives a wrong result in 59%. The app doesn't know if an infected person was anywhere near you or 10 meters away. That is rather essential, and that even says Jaap Haartsen, the inventor of bluetooth. He thinks his invention is unsuitable for this app, but even though it doesn't work well, the minister holds on to it. And maybe he'll want to do more with his app later, for example make the app mandatory for certain groups in certain cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u117	I do think it is important that we stick to the facts of what we are talking about. The law we are discussing today is above all a kind of delegation law, which thus allows for measures to be taken by ministers. They can only do this with measures as laid down in the law. Now there's a separate law for the Corona Melder. So it's no longer included in this law. If the amendments tabled by colleagues and myself have been adopted, which means that there is no safety net provision, on what basis can the Minister actually take another measure to oblige the app?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u118	I simply cannot give you that answer. I'm just worried about that. I looked at the law in the first place. Then I looked at the amendments that have been tabled. I have already said in my introduction that I am pleased with that. With that there is something that is a lot better than what was initially on the table. But I also agree with Mr Van Kooten: if only this law were to be as far as it is now with all these amendments. We left from the wrong start.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u119	I think it's getting a little hallucinating anyway. I think there are those amendments. It is fine to criticise the law as it has been tabled. I do think there's every reason to do that, so I totally get that. But then no monkey sandwiches can be sold about what can happen, because we all have an uncomfortable gut feeling. It is also important that we, as legislators, take a serious look at: what does this law mean? What could happen? What is the impact of the amendments on this? If you were concerned about this, I would have expected you to have tabled an amendment on that. But we are now going to listen to all kinds of things about which we can feel uncomfortable, such as: "It may not be in the law, but who knows, it will come anyway. I don't know how, but it could all happen." That's no way to treat a law here, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u120	In fact, you ask ten questions at once. I'll try to answer some of them. I did not table an amendment because I was not happy with the starting point of the law. Now, with all the amendments, we are a step further. I admit that instantly. I would have liked to have seen a reverse path. And yes, I do worry. I'm not just worried. In your mailbox you also received one e-mail from people at home who are worried. That is why I am asking these critical questions. We're gonna listen to the answers tomorrow with a lot of tension and then we're gonna see what comes out. For now, I'm not reassured.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u121	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u122	Good. What to think is also best possible because of a mandatory vaccination for certain groups? It is now denied by Minister De Jonge, but that does not give any certainty. We have seen so many times in recent weeks that the cabinet changed its mind. Think of Van Dissel's statements, which stated last year that he liked a mandatory flu shot for care workers. Van Dissel doesn't want to talk about the corona vaccine, because it's not there yet. It can still go either way. That's what I'm genuinely afraid of. You may think differently, but I sincerely fear that. It can still go either way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u123	Can I just say one more thing? It's about acceptance. There are incredibly many people watching this. It is therefore important that they know what the law is and what it is not about. The vaccination obligation is explicitly excluded from this bill. That is also stated in the explanatory memorandum. There is no provision in that law to allow this vaccination provision to pass, because there is no provision for that. If we are going to say that here, all kinds of people at home are going to think: yes, maybe they will. Then Mr. Krol can say "because of the unrest I'm going to be against," but it's unrest he's performing himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u124	No, it starts with the many e-mails you and I get. I would like to ask those questions, because that is my job as a representative of the people. I'm gonna listen to the government's response with a lot of excitement. Because yes, it is now out of the question, but we also saw that last year a similar discussion also took place around the daycare centers. The question of whether or not vaccination should be compulsory was also raised at the time. From Wuhan we really saw the most horrible images coming along. Portics were nailed shut. Entire apartments with residents still in them were hermetically sealed off. Cities were locked. No human being was allowed in or out. Residents were dragged out of their homes because they might have been infected. Those were inhumane images. But, I agree, that's not gonna happen to us, is it? This is the Netherlands. A friendly people who prefer to tolerate rather than maintain. But let's look back eight months in time and then look at it now. Then you won't believe what's happening now, will you? Companies that have to close down and fall over. Schools closing up. Eating a cake on the sidewalk with your family cost you a fortune.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u125	I don't think I'm gonna be able to go out on the street anymore. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u126	Following on from Mrs Buitenweg's point, because I am also sitting around a lot, although sometimes I feel some urge to run forward on what I do not agree with. I think that for this debate on the law it is very important: what does it say and not in the law? Vaccination is also a sensitive issue for my group. We don't want that. We have looked closely at it and I see that there is no legal provision that can provide the basis for that. Then we just have to say, "You can't do that on the basis of this law."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u127	I hope that we are all so close that we do not have to fear it in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u128	Mr. Krol rightly says: you never know what further discussion might arise about what the parties can make proposals for. That's all true. No one can see into the future. But we are now saying yes to a law, and if there is a provision in it that can be a secret basis for a vaccination obligation, then I would be very opposed to it. That is why I have studied and seen the law well: that is not in it. The Constitution says that Article 11 is the right to the inviolability of the body.............................................................................................................................................................. Do we agree that it's just not in this law? We shouldn't have any misunderstandings about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u129	No. But that is why I said: if we had looked at the situation today a year ago, we would not have been able to imagine a number of things, and they have happened by now. I really want to take care of all those people who are worried right now... I repeat: you and I and all the other Members of Parliament are really overwhelmed with reactions from people who are worried. I want to hear clear statements about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u130	Mr Krol is very far-reaching about what is possible. He sketches a lot of situations that, understandably I think, instill a little fear in people as well. The question is whether it helps to do this. But at the same time I hear Mr Krol say: let's look at Taiwan in particular, because that's where they're doing so well. If there is one country that imposes restrictions on people, even constitutionally guaranteed, it is Taiwan, where everyone has been given a kind of digital fence for themselves. You are required to have some apps on your phone that allow you to be tracked. You're obligated to have your phone with you when you go out there. If you don't have it on you, you're gonna get a hell of a fine. You're required to go into quarantine. The moment you're found outside, you're gonna get a very severe fine. That's all digitally trackable. Is that what Mr Krol wants, while at the same time saying 'with this law this and all this and all this', which this law correctly regulates, Mrs Buitenweg rightly states, also with her amendment 'that it is up to the Chamber to ratify or not to ratify something'?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u131	No, of course I do not want bad things to be taken over from other countries, but I do look with some jealousy at the way things have been handled in Taiwan. That may not be the way that suits the Netherlands, but there are also examples of things that happened there that we can take as an example. During the period when we said 'close all nursing homes and keep people in as much as possible', they said in Taiwan 'people go outside as much as possible, because in the outdoors much less can happen'. There are good things we can learn from each other. The evil things we can learn from each other too, because we shouldn't do them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u132	Finally, Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u133	That's very good, because if we can find each other in the things we don't want, then this law makes it possible to do it together. I think we're on the same side of the line. It would be nice for Mr Krol to point that out in that way, rather than scare people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u134	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u135	I'm not trying to scare people. I'd like to represent the feelings that really live with a lot of people at home here. Again, I am a representative of the people. I am not happy until we can really agree at the end of the debate. I have that conviction, and that's okay, isn't it? Not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u136	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u137	In our view, the cabinet is swinging from hot to hot when it comes to behavior measures. In recent months, I have been convinced that we must prevent a carte blanche at all costs. In order to respond to the criticism of this bill, these ministerial arrangements will be incorporated into a law as soon as possible. We think that's an undesirable detour. The measure will be introduced first and then a law will have to be passed within two weeks, which will have to be passed by the Chambers. If Parliament does not agree with the Minister, at least three weeks will pass before the law is repealed. During that period, the rules have already been enforced, people have been fined, privacy sensitive information may have been requested and processed, all without Parliament agreeing. That is what we think goes way too far. Even if there's corona, that's no reason to intervene so drasticly, when there's no other way. After all, if it turns out that Parliament does not agree, the damage has already been done. If new, unforeseen emergency measures are needed, the solution is not a carte blanche, not a ministerial arrangement and only then a law. If we really need an additional measure, we can do so with a short, strong emergency law which argues the need. I am convinced that the Council of State would like to give an urgent opinion. I am also convinced that Parliament would like to have an urgent debate on this, if necessary on weekends. That is, in my view, the only way forward from a democratic point of view. What's it gonna be like? Firstly, this cabinet must make every effort to solve the scarcity, from mouth caps to test sites, from hospital beds to sufficient anti-viral medication. There's a shortage of everything now. That is not higher mathematics, but a question of drawing the stock exchange and, above all, being very well organized. If we can't do that anymore, the administration in the Netherlands is in a bad way. This law is wasting time. First of all, make sure that the Netherlands can handle the virus in an operational sense. Secondly, the cabinet must immediately stop confusing communication policy and instead communicate crystal clear. We are extremely relieved that yesterday the Chamber adopted our motion on colour alerts. The Minister has an excellent example of the colour chart from Ireland for its work. There everyone sees on one A4's what can be expected, even if there is to be scaled up. I would ask the Minister if he would at least take that up with the greatest urgency. Third. If a legal basis is needed, do so in accordance with the normal, democratic way. Submit an emergency law, seek advice from the Council of State and enter into the debate with Parliament before the measure enters into force. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u138	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We humans only make 0.01% of all life on Earth, but we behave like a deadly virus for the remaining 99.99%. If we human beings, who are just a splinter fraction of life on earth, had handled the other part of all life a little more decently, we probably wouldn't have been here today. We are constantly talking about the fight against symptom in order not to talk about the causes of the corona crisis, namely the way in which we treat people with our living environment. The United Nations and many scientists have for years warned that a virus outbreak like this was about to happen. The causes they mention are clear and inextricably linked to our human actions, with the emphasis on "acting." Deforestation. Climate change. The trade in wild animals. The bio-industry. Then it's easy to point to the other side of the world and what they're doing there, but our own bio-industry is also a ticking time bomb. There is no country in the world that has locked up as many animals in stables per square kilometre as the Netherlands. In addition to a reservoir of viruses, this is also a breeding pond for new viruses. This puts us at an irresponsible risk every day. The way we deal with animals makes our health vulnerable. The controversial law before us should be more attentive to this, but does not say anything about it in all languages. The cabinet came up with two versions of this law that seriously undermined our democracy. This has led to unnecessary additional social unrest in this time of crisis. With the law proposed by the minister, we would go back to the time of King Willem I: rule by decree. State lawyers and citizens rebelled against this law. Both the unrest and the undemocratic basic attitude are therefore hard to count on the ministers. This raises mistrust among our group; you do not have to be a conspiracy creator for that. The law now before us replaces the emergency regulations. It's a coat rack for those corona measures. It is therefore also a law that regulates that for good reasons freedoms can be temporarily restricted. But that does require careful consideration. A government that restricts civil liberties has a responsibility to the citizen to do everything in its power to lift those restrictions as quickly as possible. A government that restricts civil liberties must do everything in its power to ensure that it is "once, but never again." In this careful consideration, the Animal Party also takes into account whether the government is prepared to do everything it can to protect its own citizens and not to take fundamental health risks, especially when these freedoms are severely restricted. You can't limit civil liberties as a government if you don't do everything you can to prevent it. "Only together will we get corona underneath," says the cabinet. But my group notes that 'together' is simply not true in some cases. "All animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than others." Because if you are asked to restrict aviation because of fun flights to orange or red areas, the cabinet does not give at home. When asked to intervene in slaughterhouses, which are a major source of contamination, the cabinet does not give at home. And when asked to tackle our unhealthy environment and our unhealthy food environment because corona affects many obese people, the cabinet does not give home. But the cabinet does come up with a law that can prohibit us from being close to each other, which affects the right to freedom of association, as well as the right to freedom of assembly and demonstration, and the right to physical integrity. Mr. Chairman. That is not to say that they are directly bad measures, but it has been said that they are measures that are mainly imposed on citizens. The cabinet is asking a lot of citizens, so it itself fails to take these fundamental measures elsewhere. At the beginning of the crisis, this may not have been directly reproachable. No one knew how long corona would stay and no one knew exactly what was working, and what wasn't. In the meantime, we know how people can get sick, and we can do something about that. In the meantime, we know that the costs of care are rising. We know that one third of healthcare costs are related to lifestyle-related diseases. And we know that people's interaction with animals, nature and climate is a great opportunity for new viruses. So we need to strengthen our basic health significantly and take preventive measures, rather than keep mopping with the tap open. So if we know that corona affects obese people, where's that sugar tax? Where are the rules to reduce excess salt, fat or sugar in all kinds of food? Where is the VAT reduction on fruit and vegetables? And if we know that corona is hitting harder in areas where air quality is poor, then where is the approach of notorious air pollutants such as large industry, biomass plants and livestock farming? Why are we still working with these weak EU standards for air quality instead of those sharp standards that are really based on what is healthy? The Animal Party already asked in May to respond to the call of 1,600 scientists to work on this prevention policy. The cabinet responded by saying that this is not going to happen for the time being because of that corona virus. That answer shows that the basic attitude of the cabinet in this matter is really wrong. The crisis doesn't just require ic-beds and ventilators. It also takes a long time to make serious work of that basic health. The cabinet refuses to see that it has to be en-and-and: and with targeted measures to combat the current virus and make the Netherlands more resilient and healthier, so that we can be more resistant to corona or other things that are still coming towards us in the future. Unfortunately, the written answer to our questions did not predict much good. Is the Minister ready to work on improving basic health? Because basically more attention to healthy nutrition, the elimination and burdening of an excess of unhealthy food and facilitating more movement are fundamental points in us that need to be changed. I'd like a response. Since the establishment of the Batavian Republic, the government has a duty to ensure the health of all the inhabitants of our country. In 1798 the State Order, the first version of the Constitution, was written. It was already stated in that State regulation that the government "by means of beneficial laws, its concern for everything that can generally promote the health of the residents." Please note: "with removal, so much mayhem, of all obstacles." So with removal, as much as possible, of all obstacles to that health. As early as 1798 there was attention to prevention, which is now being hoarded under the influence of commercial interests. Commercial interests are literally about corpses: 1.5 metres away, except in the aircraft, except in the slaughterhouse and except in the mink farms, where animals that are highly susceptible to contamination, caged caged caged. The current Article 22 of our Constitution also states that public authorities must take measures to promote public health. Then you should also look at prevention. Then you have to prevent people from getting sick of corona by doing something about poor air quality and obesity. So you also have to prevent new variants from emerging by doing something about the bio-industry. I am still working on an amendment to instruct the Minister at the time of an epidemic threat not only to ensure that infections are prevented, but also to take measures to reduce the number of people who become ill or die if the infections do. My second amendment, which has just been distributed, concerns mink. The present legislative proposal focuses on repression and on measures that interfere with the personal freedom of movement of people who intervene in civil rights. But there is no mention of the risks from animal husbandry. No measure is proposed to intervene in this event of failure. In recent months, mink breeding has been a model of indecision and even unwillingness to intervene. The Netherlands had the sad world premiere of the very first outbreak of the coronavirus in livestock farming. In a few months the virus was found to spread much faster and more violently than was thought possible. After the first infection, the Minister of Agriculture wrote that the risk that animals could also infect people with the coronavirus was negligible. Nerts would only be infected by humans and not the other way around. But the virus did jump from mink to man. Experts expected the number of infections to decrease rapidly after the intensive contact moments were over. In mid-July, the OMT-Z expected a total of 35 sites to be infected. Less than six months further, 64 sites have been infected and this number continues almost daily. Not only these animals but also many other animals are more sensitive to the virus than we had previously expected. They're also much more contagious than we thought. Two thirds of the researched mink breeders, family members and employees become infected: an unprecedented level of contamination, many times higher than in the domestic environment. However, the government has not taken the opportunity to ban the farming of animals that are detectable for this virus by means of the present law. As far as our group is concerned, that is a completely incomprehensible and irresponsible choice. The Chamber already called for this with the adoption of the Old-Hand/Ploumen motion. On the basis of public health, introduce a ban on the professional breeding of animals capable of forming a reservoir for the coronavirus. This applies in any case to mink-farming, but possibly also to other species that are susceptible to the COOVID-19 virus. Scientific insights on this matter follow each other quickly. Viroloog Marion Koopmans pointed out that the role of animals in the spread of the virus has not been taken into account. There may already be a parallel system among animals worldwide, she says. It is therefore very important, as far as we are concerned, that the VWS Minister should be able to intervene in other animal husbandry sectors in good time when a risk to human health has arisen. In February, when the coronavirus first appeared in the Netherlands, there were about 800,000 minks left in the Netherlands. Because we were bred with these animals, we were in May with a reservoir of more than 4 million mink, a place where the virus can hide and reappear at a later moment. Imagine if this happens to chickens, then we have a virus reservoir of 100 million animals. Customisation is therefore necessary, says the cabinet. We'll try this for three weeks and then we'll see what the effect is, but that's absolutely impossible for animals. You can't solve that with a curfew or five feet away. Such a distance is inconceivable in the bio-industry. The VWS Minister must therefore be able to intervene in good time if there are risks to human health in animal husbandry sectors. On this point, too, the Chamber made a very clear statement before the recess. It is precisely on the tension field of LNV and VWS that the Minister of VWS must have perseverance in the prevention and control of infectious animal diseases, which therefore pose a threat to public health. This is a painful lesson that we have left to the Q-fever epidemic, which we should not repeat now. My group, as I have already announced, has just tabled an amendment to lay the legal basis for these two appeals from the Chamber. This amendment stipulates that, under the Public Health Act, it is prohibited to breed with mink on a professional basis, since they are comprehensible for the COVID-19 virus and can therefore create a public health risk. Secondly, this amendment creates the possibility of identifying other species to which this ban should apply. This will allow rapid intervention when it appears that the virus also occurs in other animal species and thus creates a new risk to public health. This too was part of the adopted motion-Ouwehand/Ploumen. Mr President, another question to the Minister of another order. This question is about the temporality of the law. Can the Minister confirm that all he has to do is inform the Chamber of his intention to extend the law and that the royal decision to actually regulate it only needs the approval of the Cabinet and the King? Why does the Minister choose not to allow the Chamber to vote on the extension of such a far-reaching law? Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u140	Before you close, Mr Van Dam has been standing there for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u141	I didn't save it from Mrs Van Esch finishing her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u142	Well, I do. I need you to ask me a question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u143	Yeah, you seem to be going over that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u144	Something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u145	I've only got one paragraph left, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u146	I have already experienced that the chairman is still dealing with a few things here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u147	Well, let's do it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u148	Oh, that's great. It's taken care of. So Mr Van Dam lets you finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u149	All right. Then I'm gonna say my final word...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u150	Maybe for a while. I hear Mrs Van Esch saying all those things that are not actually in this law. It is, of course, justified, given the aim of the Party for Animals, that this should be brought forward. Mrs Van Esch just made a point about this law, but I would like her to tell us what she thinks of this law and what she thinks of the amendments. Let me just say: I would really love it if the Animal Party also supported and eventually supported this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u151	I get the question. For us, our amendments are one we have tabled and we are still working on a fundamental part of our choice of this law, I say immediately. That is, I think, quite clearly present in my speech. We believe that there are two very essential points missing from this law. We now appoint them and submit them through amendments. They are essential to us. In this respect, I can also tell you that the amendments that are now before us make the original law considerably better. That in any case, but I think we have been clear: our amendments are fundamental in our view and these points are not now in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u152	Finally, Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u153	Just to make sense of it. I do not yet know the other amendment, but the amendment on mink breeding has already been discussed in detail in the Chamber. The cabinet has also taken a position on how this is handled. If that amendment is not adopted, does that mean that you are voting against the whole law? If that's all that matters, then I think you're a little hobby-boy today after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u154	I regret, however, that you have not listened carefully to our contribution. I think that's the very core we've named. It is bizarre and as far as we are concerned not to explain that you do not include such a threat of coronavirus in the livestock sector in this law. At the moment, that is not yet the case. If you do not include that threat in this law, we find it incomprehensible to adopt a law in this way. That is the whole foundation of the argument I am putting here. I can say more about it, but I think I explained it very clearly. It really cannot be that it is not in this law, even though we have had numerous debates about it here. It's just not possible for the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u155	Finally, Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u156	I'm glad you made that clear. I hope you also understand that I really cannot understand that you are doing that with this bill. But you're very clear about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u157	Thank you. Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u158	I know Mrs Van Esch as a great defender of the protection of fundamental rights. She has just argued that it can prevent us from taking measures that affect our fundamental rights when we want to protect public health. She said she understands. But she also said that these measures should not last longer than is strictly necessary. The restriction of fundamental rights must also not go beyond what is necessary. I would like to draw Mrs Van Esch's attention to the amendment I have tabled, which makes the proportionality test more explicit in order to address these concerns. It also gives a more explicit mandate to the cabinet to scale the measures immediately as soon as they are no longer needed. I would very much like to invite Mrs Van Esch to sign this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u159	I have indeed seen the amendment. It looks good. I will give some thought to whether we sign it, but I think we agree on the points contained in the amendment. I'm glad you filed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u160	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u161	Finally. The most important question remains for the Animal Party whether the government does not ask too much of the citizen, while it itself avoids its responsibility. Doesn't the government, as we've seen so many times in the past, look too far away from animal farms? There are far more animals in our country than humans, and the way we deal with animals is literally sickening. In view of the attitude of this cabinet so far, we have a hard head in it, but I hope and look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u162	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA. After Mr. Van Dam, we're going to suspend for lunch. Then you'll know what you're up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u163	Thank you, Mr President. The bill that is on the agenda today has already had a lot of ground to cover. I have never seen a bill that has changed so much between the first contours and the proposal before us today. I have never seen a proposal about which we have met so much and on which I have received so many e-mails. I would like to mention two general details before I go into the substance of the law. First of all, the many questions from society. Thousands of e-mails, so many that my mailbox succumbed every now and then. Partly through a kind of bone that was fired at me, but also for an important part simply from angry and concerned citizens. They were so many e-mails that it was impossible to answer everyone, but I regularly sought contact with people to hear what was keeping them busy. I simply asked why they were so opposed and, above all, to correct images and explain that this law does not lead to a vaccination obligation, that this law does not lead to a general ban on demonstrations and to explain that Parliament is not going to be put into effect. I spent a lot of hours on the phone and then I heard a lot of worries. So a mother told me that she saw her three children in college unite. For days they sat in their dorm room glued to the video screen. Because of vulnerable people in the family, they were very reluctant to enter into any social life. Isn't that supposed to be different with students? The mother asked if we had an eye for that. Another mother hadn't seen her own children in months, because she has vulnerable health. Her children had decided that themselves, but it was a very painful choice, which was extremely difficult in the family. She asked me if I understood. I have spoken to people who have lost relatives in intensive care: wrapped in a kind of white suit, barely contact, barely able to say goodbye. Is this the new normal? They asked: "Is this law going to facilitate this, Mr. Van Dam?" Of course, we all know the problems of nursing homes. There was a visitation restriction, including for carers. This was true of me, too. I've been communicating with my mother for months through some kind of intercom that was behind a window. Even as I walked out of the room, into the square, I talked to people. Despite the direct language that sometimes came to my mind, I have heard many sincere concerns. In many cases, initial anger replaced concerns, questions and fear. "How much longer is this gonna take? Where does our society go? Do you have an eye for that in the Chamber?" Mr. Chairman. This corona time is a painful time. The freedoms we find so common are under pressure. We're vulnerable people, all of us. So it affects all of us, including as MPs. I just told you about that from my personal situation. With that look, with that concern, with the fact that we are no different from all those Dutch people, I am looking at this bill. It is our job as a parliament to control the rules that the government lays down, the rules that are necessary. We must note that this democratic control, in particular on those emergency regulations, has so far been poor. There have been many debates in the Chamber, where a wide range of measures have been discussed, but the emergency regulations have never been discussed in the Chamber or the city council. These have been declared. Our crisis legislation is written for short-term crises, a few days at most, a week. Then ex-post controls can be justified. But this corona crisis has been going on for more than six months and is expected to continue for a while. The present legislative proposal makes it possible to make all these restrictive measures subject to democratic debate. This is not happening afterwards, but in advance, as it should be. I expect that this democratic, public debate will contribute to transparency, understanding and acceptance. For this reason alone, I welcome this law, including, of course, the amendments I have signed. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the second general point, namely the drafting of this bill. This law will replace those emergency regulations. Previously, both the Lower House and the Council of State stated that restrictive measures should be based on a formal law reviewed by parliament. This should certainly be done if the corona crisis lasts longer. This bill provides for this. It is, in a sense, the elaboration of the mandate given by the Chamber to the cabinet. In society, in the media and in law, there have been greater hesitations about this bill, especially when it comes to the position of the Chamber in order to be able to effectively control the government. With this law, can the government not announce measures on its own, without the Court still being required to do so? That was the question. Although the present bill has already fundamentally improved compared to previous versions, several groups within the Chamber recognized themselves in this criticism. A crisis such as the corona crisis requires the government to be able to act decisively and directly, but the depth and duration of the measures justify the express position of the parliament. This contributes to legitimacy and support. For this reason, several groups in the Lower House, out of coalition and opposition, have jointly taken responsibility for improving the legislative proposal in the middle of this crisis. They do this by working together on a number of amendments, which focus on issues such as ratification, limitation of the duration of the law, level of fines, involvement of local democracy and access of family members to care homes. With these amendments we position ourselves as a parliament, without any need for it, and I speak for myself to stand up to the cabinet. I think we should fight the crisis together in this respect too. In this way, we can only create this temporary corona law together. We hope that the government will take a positive view of the amendments. As cooperating parties in this way, I only interpret it as saying that, together, we must fight this crisis, as in society, citizens, health professionals, administrators and many others together put their shoulders under the heading of the corona crisis. Mr. Chairman. Then a number of substantive questions to the cabinet. Let me begin with the amendment I tabled on municipal involvement. The written answer clearly shows that national measures can be declared by ministerial regulation and that the 355 mayors of the Netherlands have various powers to provide customization. The CDA Group considers it very important that this movement brings the municipal councils back into the picture, but also that the aldermen come more into the picture. This bill is about crisis legislation. During the round table, for example, Professor Brouwer made it clear that the mayor is primarily involved, but the alderman Zorg has an important involvement in the subject, like the alderman Public Space, when it comes to markets or playgrounds. So I can walk by all the aldermen, but involvement of the college can't be thought away. Of course, it can also be very helpful if the city council periodically discusses with the mayor but can also check how the corona policy works locally. Already this is going very well in a number of places in the country, but that cannot be said of all municipal councils. For this reason, I should like to say that thanks also to Mr Van der Staaij-Jensen an amendment which should provide for some kind of instruction to the mayor to inform his colleagues and his council adequately so that they too are in position. Furthermore, the amendment includes an obligation for the President of the security region to actively implement his information role towards individual municipal councils, if that is the case. Now that the attention is shifted from the chairman of the security region to the mayor, that provision may be less urgent, but in case of scaling up it is certainly helpful. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to another point, which is to scale up and down. In the note on the report, a lot of words have been said about this, but I would appreciate it if the cabinet chose the cabinet itself, but I can imagine that the Minister of Justice and Security will shed some light on that. When does the security region come under this new law? How is it promoted that regional differences do not arise between municipalities? It's called "a waterbed effect." I do not have a representation of myself in the context of the corona crisis, but I can imagine that it will be a problem if you open the catering industry in one municipality and not in the other. Mr. Chairman. Then the churches. We have, of course, had some serious discussions this weekend and in the aftermath of that. I would like to ask the cabinet once again to explain how this law relates to the possibility for churches to lay down, above all, rules themselves, which are referred to in some sense as "branch rules" and how this relates to Article 58l (5). Freedom of religion is, of course, also very important for our group. There are a lot of freedoms and a lot of fundamental rights in our Constitution that have been defined by special rules, but it will not surprise anyone that we are calling for particular attention to be given to this fundamental right. We also ask the Cabinet to explain again how this law is going to work. Mr. Chairman. Then home law. House law is explicitly recognised in this law. Action by the government behind the front door is actually excluded in this law. At the same time, we see that a large proportion of the infections occur in the home situation, during parties, in student homes. So the government can't intervene here. Here we will really only have to do it with the common sense of people. In view of the recent insights of the RIVM, how does the cabinet view this? Then there is a question about the ministerial arrangements. What are they gonna look like? I assume that, quite soon after the adoption of this law to replace the emergency regulations, there will be a substantial regulation in the Chamber, which will replace the emergency regulations that have now been drawn up in the security regions. Will this be a single regulation or will it all become separate ministerial arrangements, perhaps by a minister's field of expertise? Is there any connection to the currently biweekly corona debates, or can we expect an arrangement in the Chamber's mailbox at any time? How are we gonna do this? I'd like a response. I'm about to finish, Mr. President. Then there's state emergency law. During the hearing it became clear that our state emergency law is in fact completely obsolete. One of the most obvious threats is a cyber threat. We are not prepared for that at all in terms of state emergency law, just as we cannot find an instrument for this coronapandemic. How's the cabinet gonna change this? Couldn't this whole situation, this whole corona situation, with a temporary law, have been prevented if our state emergency law had been in order? Is the Cabinet prepared to conduct a study on this? Finally, Mr President. The CDA Group can very much support this bill, including, of course, the amendments we have named. I have already said something about it in Mr Markuszower's speech. Of course, this kind of legislation restricts people's freedoms. We don't like that either. We prefer to live in a country where we can make the most of our freedom. But this law is primarily to protect the weak in society, people who have to show caution day in day out of day to avoid becoming infected, in order to get through the day safely with possibly an underlying disease. If there are no rules, the law of the strongest applies. This is not about the common interest, but it is about individual interests. This bill, including all the improvements that have been made, can be helpful in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u164	Then I have Mr Azarkan and then Mr Hijink. Is that right? Yes, Mr. Azarkan. I find you so calm this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u165	I take that as a compliment, Mr President, thank you. Mr Van Dam started by saying: I rarely have a bill that has been so amended and amended here in the Chamber. In the middle of his speech he spoke about the process. I would like to talk about this because it is also part of this debate. That is also important, because it has helped to make a lot of people worried. How does Mr Van Dam look at the communication and announcement about that first law, about 1 May, and where we are now on the side of the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u166	I think Mr Azarkan is referring above all to it. I would like to repeat it for a moment; then he can correct it if I see it wrong, that there was initially a legislative proposal that was put into consultation, which changed a lot when it finally came to the Chamber as a legislative proposal, also with interim advice from the Council of State. Yes, you know, I hear all kinds of comments here today about people talking about how the cabinet should have dealt with the crisis: that this should have been better and that it should have been better. That's how I see this bill. In retrospect, it is very easy to say that I have a somewhat flattened remark for which I will not use here to know how things should have turned out. But if you stand in front of it, if you have to take responsibility, if you have to keep a thousand signs in the air, you can say afterwards: gosh, we should have put that one sign on the baton otherwise. That's how I look at this bill. I feel my role in this and I'm actually super proud that I've been able to play that role and that we'll make it better together. For the time being, I will not find a cabinet that says as a kind of cast iron pot: it is only in our way and otherwise we will break. That's how I look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u167	I think that those Members from the Chamber who have contributed to the amendment of the law deserve all the praise and compliments, because that was really necessary. I also note that, in May in particular, when that law was announced with far-reaching restrictions on fundamental rights and the prolonged exclusion of Parliament, it also contributed to the fact that Mr Van Dan had to make a lot of phone calls to people who were worried. What bothers me a little, and what also became a little clear in the debate with a number of other colleagues, is that a lot of people have that image now, whereas if the cabinet had gone into consultation with Mr Van Dam, Mrs Buitenweg, Mr Van der Staaij and a number of other colleagues, including perhaps I, we could have saved ourselves from this. I think Mr Van Dam is saying something too easy: yes, but you know, we make mistakes with each other. That can be done, and so can the ministers who I greatly admire for the enormous efforts they have made to combat the corona crisis. I'll just say that we can avoid a few things together. So that's what we need to learn from. I regret that it is now in society, that we have now made something here which, in fact, no longer resembles those far-reaching powers that the cabinet wants. Again, I find it a little easy to say: that's part of it, everyone makes mistakes. I think that the cabinet should really take more responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u168	I'm glad you said that. I do not want to say 'everyone makes mistakes', because that is for the cabinet to say for itself. Just looking at myself: I also looked at that first law. When was it? In April, May, when the streets were empty here and when we were all at home or at least came back from it. The risk with this bill, where the role of Parliament is greater, is that the cabinet has fewer opportunities to act quickly. It's in the Chamber for at least a week to get approval. I think it is perfectly logical that the cabinet first came up with a law when they were in crisis management, in which real speed of action was paramount. Afterwards, with the knowledge of today and with the valuable advice of Voermans and you can name them all, we come to something else because we think that if such a crisis takes a long time it may have to be different, I understand. So I'm just talking for myself here, and I'm telling you in all honesty that when the bill was first there, I'm also someone who has a background in the crisis, and I thought, logically, that there would be such a bill. However, in view of the debate that I had with my colleagues afterwards, I am very pleased to see where we have come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u169	All right, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u170	I believe that everyone agrees that the way this law has been passed has led to a great deal of mistrust and chaos, but on one point I agree with Mr Van Dam and that is the following. When the first version of that law was drafted, we actually found out that our Public Health Act, which is actually intended to combat epidemics, is very suitable for a short-term epidemic, for example regionally, but not at all for a colossal pandemic that we are now in the midst of. I found it interesting that Mr Van Dam said that we should look at how we can ensure for the future that we are better prepared for this type of emergency crisis situation. Today or tomorrow, I myself would like to propose that the Public Health Act should regulate it in such a way that we already have the powers more clearly in advance and that we also have more clearly in advance what exactly is and is not the possibilities and how fundamental rights can be better protected. Is Mr Van Dam prepared to make such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u171	This bill focuses, curiously enough, only on this type of pandemic, on COVID-19. If you listen to the experts, you might wonder whether it is not conceivable that there are other viruses coming at us and we should apply this law. But I'm realistic enough to look at the debate in society. I think we're already bacon buyers if we can get this bill done properly. So to say right now "we're doing it right now for this and that, sister and so on and here and there" doesn't seem realistic to me. But I have pointed out our state emergency law and how it works. This includes the provincial food commissioner as one of the key officials. I don't think that position exists anymore. And so there are other things that are rather archaic. If we, as a country, have a massive cyberattack with all that, then we could end up in situations that we are not prepared for in terms of legislation. To make a long story short: I think it is very sensible that an institution like the OVV should look at how the crisis is being dealt with and what lessons to draw from it, and that we should be better prepared, including in terms of legislation, for crises to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u172	Then Mr Van Dam goes right past my point, because I do not want this emergency law, this route, to become the future way to tackle another crisis. That's exactly my point. Because in May, we saw how explosive the original law was. We have seen what has caused enormous unrest and mistrust. So I do not think this is exactly the way we should respond to a crisis. At the same time, however, I note that no one really wants to operate through emergency regulations. Then we see that experts say that the Public Health Act, intended to combat epidemics, does not provide an answer to a long-term pandemic as we now have. Does Mr Van Dam agree with the SP that precisely in order to prevent this kind of emergency jump, this kind of bad legislation actually need something in that Public Health Act, which does respond to a pandemic, in which fundamental rights are properly protected?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u173	I think that if there is a next pandemic, we are grateful to use the process that we are going through here with each other and that we are looking at it at that time. I myself am much more simply looking for regulation in a broader sense that is not just about a pandemic, but about all kinds of threats, so that we can run the tent in a democratically decent manner under such difficult circumstances. Let me put that in front of you. By the way, I would like to say that we can now talk about it as if we are now making a better law. We have to look with respect at all those people who have taken the necessary measures with the limited instruments of the emergency regulations so far. So legislation is one thing, but people who can organise it and who can act quickly are at least as important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u174	Thank you. I would now like to propose that we suspend until 1.30 p.m. We shall then vote briefly and then continue with this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u175	I shall suspend the sitting until 1.30 p.m.
