ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the internal affairs budget (VII), and today we have the first term from the Chamber. I welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for the Interior and, of course, I welcome Members of Parliament and the people in the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Martin Bosma as the first speaker to speak on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Happy birthday, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. Four years of Ollongren are four lost years. It's been years when our democracy got even worse. Four years backwards. Today, we are taking stock of the challenges of her ministry, of her last budget. So today's final settlement. The choice for Ollongren as minister four years ago was, of course, a weird one. If you don't like democracy, why do you become the minister who deals with democracy? In an official speech in her official capacity as deputy mayor...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u6	Let's see how long you've been talking. 50 seconds, I see. Mr. Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u7	Yeah, it's actually been too much. I wondered why Mr Bosma voted against the D66 proposal for more citizen participation. Last year I submitted an own-initiative paper to give people the right to submit an amendment to a legislative proposal and to explain that from the point of view of Mr Bosma's legal treatment. The SP supported this, 50PLUS supported it, GroenLinks supported it, the PvdA supported it, the Democracy Forum supported it, but Mr Bosma was not in the debate, did not participate in the written input, but voted against it without explanation of vote. I am very curious as to why, and this is the first opportunity that we can meet on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u8	We voted against it because we thought it was a bad proposal. It is very strange to have to table an amendment that I, as a Member of Parliament, would think was a good idea. A civilian's man enough. He also has e-mails to approach me. I can then say how I feel about that and whether I feel called to submit it. It is, of course, a very strange construction that other Members of Parliament can impose such a thing. That is why I voted against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u9	Then Mr Bosma did not fully read the proposal. It's not like he's imposing that on others, MPs. Citizens, if they collect enough signatures, have the right to explain this here themselves from the seat of the speaker. That would be a good proposal which the PVV could support for more citizen consultation, which Mr Bosma is in favour of; at least that is what he always says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u10	That's what we're here for, but I thought this was a bad proposal for the reason I just gave. We have the citizens' initiative here: people can speak from outside. Actually, I think that's a strange figure. We're the House of Representatives. In recent years, we have had a number of editions of these that I didn't think were particularly successful. I'm just thinking about Mr. Van Houts creating money. It just never came out of the blue. I thought Mr Sneller's proposal, which I read with great interest, was an excellent one, and that is why we voted against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u11	Finally, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u12	It is a pity that Mr Bosma wants to keep citizens out of this Chamber and out of Parliament, when we should be digging such channels. But then it is clear that Mr Bosma thinks so. It would be a good idea next time to take part in the parliamentary debate on this, rather than being the second largest party in this House, to stay away from this kind of debate and to vote against it in secret without explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u13	We never secretly vote against and you do not need an explanation of vote to vote against anything. It was just a bad proposal and I didn't think it was worth attending. I thought it was worth voting against. However, a compliment to Mr Sneller for quoting Hans van Mierlo in a small way: digging for power. That was a text by Hans van Mierlo. D66 exists today for 54 years, but I don't know if we should be happy about it. D66 has had every opportunity to do something about democracy at three major moments. First, the purple cabinets. That was an excellent D66 cabinet. We didn't get anywhere with that, except that the polling stations could be open for an hour longer. Then we had Mr. Pechtold the second chance as Minister for Administrative Renewal. Well, that didn't work either. He was talking about a convention or something. That never came out of the blue. And now we have Mrs. Ollongren. The only thing Mrs Ollongren has done in the area of democratic renewal is to destroy the referendum. That democratic renewal, I believe, is the reason why D66 was founded 54 years ago, in the basement of the advertising agency FHV because it is an advertising trick, of course. If Mr Sneller and his party are so keen to dig channels to power, that is what Mr Van Mierlo pretended to want. I wonder why his group has been working to destroy the consultative referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u14	My group and I have done more to achieve the referendum than Mr Bosma has done in his entire life. Today it is not only 54 years of D66, but today it is also 10 years of Rutte's prime ministership.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u15	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u16	The first time Rutte became prime minister was in a doog coalition with the PVV. Can Mr Bosma mention one thing from that tolerance agreement that helped democracy? The word "democracy" itself did not occur in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u17	No. Mr Sneller is right: it was a tolerant construction. We didn't rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u18	So Mr Bosma didn't get anything out of it in the area of democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u19	Well, I wasn't a minister in there. Unfortunately, we were not allowed to participate more than tolerated. A tolerance agreement has been reached, which mainly concerned a number of issues, such as immigration, the Agema funds for a billion etc. Unfortunately, however, that cabinet, which we were not part of, has not managed to achieve anything. But then I think: why does Mr Sneller not respond to the three possible opportunities for D66 to have done something about our democracy? I called them. One. Two purple cabinets. Two. Pechtold as Minister for Administrative Renewal. Three. Ms Ollongren, former candidate of D66, as Minister of the Interior. So then you rule. That's a totally different thing from a tolerant construction. Three times D66 has ruled and three times D66 has failed. Oh, what am I saying? At the time of the purple cabinets it did come out that we could go to the ballot box for an hour longer, so I have to change my words a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u20	Good. Finally, Mr. Faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u21	And you just have to check the facts again, because in all these government agreements things did come out to strengthen democracy. That while in that coalition agreement, which had quite a lot of pages, each page was one too many, but it was quite thick, not a word about democracy. It's just something Mr Bosma has to say here, but when it comes down to it for him, he doesn't do anything about it either. In his fourteen years of parliamentary membership, Mr Bosma has not taken any initiative to do anything here. There is not even the beginning of an initiative law or an initiative paper to do something about democracy. So a little more modesty, Mr. Bosma!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u22	No, not modesty. I state that D66 has been in existence for 54 years. I'm sorry about that. That club was founded to do something about democratic renewal and has ruled three times. Government is something other than tolerance, Mr. Faster. I was hoping you'd understand the difference. Three times D66 ruled. Three times D66 got the ball on the penalty tip. The goalie looked the other way. Three times D66 could have renewed democracy. But the only thing that has happened is that we can vote an hour longer and the only thing that has happened is that the consultative referendum has been demolished. And what did Hans van Mierlo want? Hans van Mierlo wanted the referendum! Hans van Mierlo wanted a referendum on the Betuwe line! Hans van Mierlo wanted a referendum on the Maastricht Treaty! And he was right, too. That's why D66 was founded. And if D66 can do it, D66 won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u23	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mr. Chairman. In an official speech, in her official capacity as deputy mayor, Ollongren stated that if the PVV won the elections, the election results should not be recognised. Amsterdam must then also separate itself from the Kingdom, for it explains that when the PVV comes to power, there will be no civilization and no culture. In other words, the support of the PVV consists of people without culture and without civilization. The difference between humans and animals is that humans know civilization and culture. If you dehumanize an entire population and put it away as a half-human, half-animal, you will show that you have nothing to do with the demos, which are the basis of our democracy. For Ollongren, people who think otherwise aren't people with different opinions, who you're talking to. PVVs are apparently inferior creatures, plebs. So this is how she looks at society: there is a group of primates that must be kept out of government at all costs. Of course, they can pay taxes, but for the rest they must learn to keep their mouths shut. You'll have to dare. The club of Ollongren is on zero seats in the polls for months in 2006. Only by crying with the deniers of the Armenian genocide will the club return to the House of Representatives. Ollongren, who is number 5 on the D66 list, is out of the boat. And that club wants to keep 15% to 20% of the Dutch population permanently off the political board. The black maiden is a typical apartheid thinker and is the last person to trust democracy in the Netherlands. The first policy line of Ollongren is entirely in line with this. Terrified that the plebs can have any influence, it abolishes the referendum. Coldly sworn she appears waving her Viking axe on the Binnenhof to put an end to this D66 crown jewel and she pounded on Hans van Mierlo's coffin for just as long until she knew that all life has disappeared from the original ideals of D66. Then it becomes quiet around the minister. The hammock is being rolled out. In her study is the sign "Do not disturb; I sleep." The four-year hibernation can begin. Did you know, Madam President, that "ollongren" is the Swedish word for nose picking? We should've felt wet right away. Four years of Ollongren are four lost years. She barely knows how to produce a law. There's just nothing coming out of her hands. Every day an official at the ministry opens and closes the curtains of her study. To keep her a little busy, she gets Living and National Service. Maybe she did something there; I don't know. I sometimes see a press release coming by that she's gonna take care of the wood rot in homes or something. That is good, but she has never shown any interest in the wood rot in our democracy. Question one to the Minister is: why is so little coming out of your hands? Question two: what exactly justifies your salary? Every now and then her informers are kicked out of their lethargy and they have to arrange some headlines to suggest some activity. With three pages in De Telegraaf she opens the attack on the "fake news": the Russians come and go yelling things on Twitter. We all have to go under our bed, because Putin has hidden an algorithm there. Then long after that, on a Friday night, just before midnight, we get a report, not to mention requested by the Minister. It says it's all bullshit. Fake news is always associated in left-liberal media with Brexit, with Trump, with Salvini; with the bad guys, the plebs, the people without civilization and culture. Her partymate Kees Verhoeven, whom we miss very much today, shows how that party dislikes the free movement of opinions. He tweeted: "Social media ensure unfiltered dissemination and unfocused multiplication of all kinds of unsubstantiated opinions." Mr Verhoeven says that all this goes into effect, and I quote 'against democratic interest'. In short, it's a bit like the elite responded to the printing. In the better circles, people have been terrified of opinions for years. People are complaining about the tone of the debate and what Ollongren calls "popularism."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u25	Finish your sentence first. Or were you done already?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u26	This is the subject on which I think Mr Paternotte wishes to comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u27	Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u28	I have looked at this budget from a distance over the last few years, but Mr Bosma's speech is basically the same every time. However, in recent years, we have seen that in the annual report, the AIVD referred once more to the threat of Russian interference by informants and social media. We see that the British House of Commons, the American Congress, the counterintelligence unit in America and British intelligence are all warning against Russian undermining. So my question is what Mr Bosma and the PVV know what all the intelligence services in the Western world and all the other parties in this house don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u29	What I know, for example, is a letter from your partymate Ollongren from a few days ago, two days ago. That letter is about fake news; that was the point I made. She writes on page 3: "There is no evidence that large-scale disinformation campaigns have taken place by state actors in previous elections in the Netherlands. Nevertheless, there is a need for continued vigilance." I agree with the latter one hundred percent. We have a secret service for that, too. I wholeheartedly support the Secret Service. He's gotta be tough on that. Each attempt must be dealt with hard, and so on. But the three pages of Mrs Ollongren in De Telegraaf were fake news themselves. That whole story about Russians working on it was undermined by an English-language report, which she then sent to the Chamber herself; thank you very much for that. And she recites it in this letter, too. It graces the minister that she does that. I'm grateful to her for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u30	That is exactly what the AIVD points out in the annual report, namely that a Russian informant can come to the Netherlands to spread fake news about the MH17 process, the MH17 process in which 200 Dutch people were killed by a Russian rocket. I wonder whether Mr Bosma is proud that his political leader, Mr Wilders, has received a friendship pin from the President of the Russian Duma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u31	Am I proud of that? He got that, and he's happy about it, and I think it's really good. Russia is a country with a great history, a great culture, a great literature and a great music literature. So I think it's very good not just to rattle that country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u32	Finally, Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u33	Of course, there's the crux here. Our own intelligence services and other intelligence agencies warn of undermining, including by fake news. We even see that the head of the STUDY puts Russian spies out of the Netherlands after a failed hacking attempt at the OPCW and we see time and time again that in all Western democracies there is undermining from Russia: indeed, in the American elections and the Brexit campaign. If I ask you for an opinion on this, you are actually saying that Russia is a beautiful country. Then I wonder: what does the PVV know that all kinds of other parties and intelligence services don't know?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u34	No, I started my answer by saying that we should be vigilant about that kind of interference. The secret services must act hard against this and must be well funded and well equipped for it. At the same time, of course, we must guard against the ghost stories. The story of fake news has now been corrected by the minister himself. I'm very happy about that. It just didn't add up. The Dutch state broadcaster has also kept a story in the air for a very long time about Russian interference in the American elections, to which Mr Paternotte referred. Yeah, the latest news is that none of that is true at all, while they were hyping at all those tangled tables of the state television night at night. It turns out that's not true. It is clear, therefore, that we must take firm action against any interference and infiltration and whatever. Be vigilant about that, but beware of fake news such as the minister who distributed it at the time and as the state broadcast it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u35	I would like to suggest that Mr Bosma continue, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u36	Just a conclusion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u37	Compliments, that's where I always give...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u38	A conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u39	Yeah, I heard compliments, too, Mr. Chairman. I heard compliments, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u40	I would like to congratulate you, Mr President, but certainly not Mr Bosma, because let us note the following. The head of American counterintelligence, Mr Evanina, a Donald Trump official, says that Russia, China and Iran are in the process of influencing the elections through fake news, by spreading false information on social media and that they are even using statements from the president himself. Mr Bosma sees this and I ask him a question about it every time, but all we hear from him is: it's all very well; Russia is a beautiful country; don't worry; being a little vigilant is fine. Then my question is, for all those Dutch people who are very interested in the MH17 process because it affects them personally very much: what is your message when people see that one intelligence service after another is worried about Russia's interference and they hear you say that it's all okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u41	No, I'm not saying it's all okay. You shouldn't be quoting me falsely. I said what I said. Once again, I have said that secret services must act hard against this. The example given by Mr Paternotte does not relate to the claim of Dutch state broadcasting, brought for months, about Russian interference specifically in the American elections four years ago. That story was kept in the air by the NIS for years. It just doesn't seem to be true at all. Then Mr Paternotte comes up with a general story about general infiltration. Yes, I agree, but we have to watch out for witch hunts and hypes and so on. No one's been served by that. Mr. Chairman. Democracy has been further undermined in recent years. The Netherlands has now become a one-party state. The VVD up to and including GroenLinks are almost completely merged. They all represent the same mass immigration, Marrakesh, Europhilia, Islamization and climate socialism. Whoever's in the government of those parties doesn't matter that much anymore. The differences can no longer be observed with the naked eye. All institutions are also members of the unitary parties. I mean the media, the universities, the judiciary, the high civil service, the art world, the museum world, the subsidised action groups, you name it. Politics has also painted itself in the corner with all kinds of false agreements: government agreement, climate agreement, social agreement, housing agreement, pension agreement, you name it. The Netherlands is a diplomat democracy. Because what ideas are being spat at people's homes or at the cafe table, are government policies? Well, those are the wishes of university-educated Netherlands. The rest is there and looks at it. He may pay taxes, of course, but he must remain silent. It's a Ph.D. Sendicture. And what do we know about these Ph.D.s? Well, it's all the same left-liberal cosmopolitan unity sausage. The slaves of the unitary party. And over the past few years, something dramatic has been added. The Netherlands has received a state ideology, as communism was in the Soviet Union. The Dutch state sideology is the diversity cult. Everything must bow to that, everyone must show his submissiveness. The Dutch elite are taking over all the madness from the US without a hitch. And diversity, what exactly is that? Well, it always comes down to the same thing: anti-white racism. The fewer white people out there, the more there is of this so-called "diversity." Supposed demands of non-whites are orders that should be followed blindly. An example: our precious Black Piet, hundreds of years old and in various forms present throughout Europe, far before there was even a United States of America. It is now being associated with transatlantic slavery and all kinds of sensitivities in America! One more example. The art subsidies ensure that no different art is produced anymore. Everything has to go through the diversity committees. Art has become political art, and that too is a characteristic of a dictatorship. The Code Diversity, which you have to sign, keeps others out of the door. The Baroque Orchestra doesn't get any more money, because there are too many white violins playing there. Museums need to recreate state ideology. Each museum has become a slavery museum, otherwise the subsidy is at risk. Even the skin color of the new Dutch national team coach goes by the colour waver nowadays. But admittedly, perhaps with Tara Singh Varma on the couch the football of the Dutch team would be a lot more sparkling than now. Every commercial goes past the racial measuring bar these days. The NPO has an immigrant counter. State broadcasting has become a political means of struggle under a D66. Another characteristic of a dictatorship is the politicisation of the judiciary, an institution that has not been surprisingly refueled with D66's. We see Geert Wilders getting worn off for years because he dared to smash the unitary party against the hairs. Members of the unitary party who are discriminatory are not at any risk. Example: Pechtold generalizing Russians; Diederik Samsom, who claims that Moroccans have a monopoly on nuisances. Two weeks ago, two Moroccans were acquitted. They said, "Gay is not normal," "cancer gays." Well, that doesn't seem to be a group oath. Geert Wilders' verdict is. See also the block frizz: they are retraced for months. Extinction Rebellion, supported by the king, can block without a single arrest. In Amsterdam, with D66 as the largest party, racism has become government policy. 30% of the high positions must be filled by people of non-Western origin. You'll only have grown up in Amsterdam-Noord; your father works at a shipyard, you've worked hard, you want to flow through, but then you'll be refused because of your skin color - with the greetings of the local coalition parties SP and Party of Labour, parties built by white workers, but who now like to throw the white worker on the bus, because: diversity. For the first time since 1945, our capital again has policies focused on race. State ideology gets rammed in there with the civil servants. They are obliged to take indoctrination courses to make them aware of what they call "white and intersectional racism." Because only white people can be racist. So the politicisation of the civil service - also that reeks of dictatorship. Under Ollongren, discrimination becomes the rule. As mayor, The Hague and Amsterdam do not get the best candidate, they get diversity. The consequences are visible. Mrs Krikke has already disappeared from The Hague after a few weeks. In Amsterdam we see Mrs Halsema stumble from blunder to blunder. Do we think that's crazy? No, we don't think that's crazy. Mrs. Halsema didn't have a beginning of experience. She was a Commissioner that's an auditor, so not someone who's driving herself at a publishing house that made a big loss. And earlier she led a small group here in the House of Representatives, with which she excelled mainly in losing elections. In short, nothing justifies a mayor's post in the distance, even from Rottumerplaat. But Ollongren's still signing the appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u42	Mr. Bosma, Mrs. Halsema is not participating in the debate. Did you know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u43	No, but she did come to her post because of Mrs. Ollongren. She signed the appointment. That's her job, under state law. Her appointment is also the result of the positive discrimination that we are now seeing around us. That's government policy. The Ministry of the Interior also controls the lower level of public administration. It is therefore entirely within the scope of today's debate, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u44	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u45	Yeah, you don't have any of that back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u46	I don't really want to argue with you, but you know exactly what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u47	You're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u48	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u49	If Mrs. Halsema turns her office house into a weapons store, Mrs. Ollongren will be there as the chickens. She tweets: it's a private matter. Yeah, they're covering for each other. In the capital, the public administration has now merged with the racial activists. We read the apps. Mrs Sylvana Simons and Mrs Halsema wished each other luck. Something's slipping, Mrs. Halsema reports. Well, that's right: the trust we still have in the government. Mrs. Halsema is not interfering with the Black Lives Matter event. Why not? Because that demonstration supports state ideology. You can't laugh about state ideology anymore. Minister of Engelshoven of D66 announces that he will talk to Johan Derksen if he makes a joke. Those are also the contours of a dictatorship. There's nothing to laugh about anymore. You can't say "white" anymore. You have to say white. It's like we've all become albinos. The word "allochtoon" has also been phased out. The word "negro" is kind of outlawed. We used it for centuries. George Soros' money banished words like "hottentot" and "eskimo" from our museums. The state wants us to use other words. That too is something that dictatorships always do. The United Nations wants us to stop using the word "woman." We have to say, people with a uterus. We're laughing about that now, as we did when the first left kooks went loose on our precious Black Piet. We're gonna end up laughing. This ministry is about personal registration. Minister Van Engelshoven, of the gender-neutral D66, has announced that the designation man/woman disappears on identity cards. Looks like we're out of women. For decades, left-wing women have painted their hair orange and shrouded themselves in purple pants; this for the women's struggle. Now it turns out that women don't exist anymore. Many companies have a diversity officer, who acts as a political commissioner to ensure that state ideology is also the ideology of each company. Business as an exporter of the State. In every dictatorship, it goes the same way. Such an extremely left-wing diversity officer, for example, ensured at Bol.com that nothing about Zwarte Piet can be sold. Well, you can buy dolls there that you can have sex with, less than a meter, or pedo sex. Or books by Yusuf al-Qaradawi, who likes Adolf Hitler best, or the book The International Jew of Henry Ford. That's all fine, but Black Pete sucks. On Twitter and Facebook we see on the assembly line that conservative and right-wing sounds are banned there. Name Black Piet and you'll be deleted. Support Trump and you have a serious problem. Universities in the Netherlands openly declare their solidarity with Black Lives Matter. They want as few white men as possible in the service. They like to give places to people who teach the critical racism theory, i.e. all white people are racists. You would also expect a democratic minister to keep a distance from violence. But this minister, Mrs Ollongren, is going to ride a joyous bike through the Bijlmer with a representative of Black Lives Matter, a club that plunders the entire neighborhoods in the United States, forcing people to eat with their families, to bring the Black Power Greetings and maintain a racist theory. That's typical of this minister. PVVs are sort of subhumans, without civilization or culture. You may discriminate to your heart's content, but anything that has a tan is by definition considered valuable and authentic and should be treated with the greatest possible submission. This minister had no message to the States-General when he filed and assumed a motion of censure against her in the First Chamber. She's gonna sit tight. Under Ollongren we even find ourselves in the crazy situation that we have two Ministers of the Interior. Ollongren was ill, and it's nice to see her better, but she doesn't resign at that time. In violation of any state law, she is Minister of the Interior and so is Mr Knops. In the past, D66 advocated respect for state law. It's been a long time. A feature of a dictatorship is also that the secret service is used for political purposes. This summer there is the news that a leading NVU'er was in reality an AIVD'er, a certain Richard Prein. I thought, "Hey, I know that name." I dived into my e-mailbox once. And yes, a year or so ago I spoke at a PVV meeting in Groningen and this Mr. Prein wanted to be there. Now the NVU is a national-socialist organization and the PVV is a fierce opponent, as we are an opponent of any kind of socialism. Our awake department of Groningen Googled this man and then refused him access. Luckily, we're not a member party, so we can do that kind of thing pretty easily. And it was clear what he was after: being present at a PVV meeting. If we had allowed this man on Mrs. Ollongren's list, NRC Handelsblad and the NPO would have been screaming for months: see, links between the PVV and the NVU, here's the picture. The secret service as a means of fighting for Ollongren who at that time is a candidate for D66, a bit like then D66-member Doctors van Leeuwen as boss of the AIVD tried to destroy the Centre Party. Mrs. Ollongren often does a honecker and woods the AIVD for her D66 cart. We saw that where we talked earlier about the so-called fake news and about her bullying about Russia and Putin, rarely backed up with facts but fitting within her party sound. There is a report on what is called right-wing extremism, mainly meant to put the PVV in the corner. We see Ollongren holding off an important report just before the referendum on the drag law. And that was very important because people could have read that and based on that they could form an opinion and adapt their voting behaviour. It disappears into the high hat. A Democrat would have played straight. After all, our democracy can only thrive in transparency and openness. On the other hand, we received a new report from the CTIVD, the club that oversees the secret service on behalf of the Chamber. And what does it turn out to be? It's still miserable. And this is one of Ollongren's most important dossiers; that was the subject of the referendum, for example. She had all the time to get it right, and it's a mess. The headline on tweakers.nl reads: AIVD collected large amounts of data illegally via hacks. And that's right. Also illegally acquired data are illegally shared with third countries. The D66 Group, or Mr Verhoeven, had asked for all kinds of guarantees to agree to that law. He got an inlay sheet. Turns out this D66 minister didn't stick to that. Now I understand why Mr Verhoeven is absent today. The question to the Minister is: how did this happen? Why did you let this report, this crucial issue about the Secret Service, go down like that? Mr. Chairman. Four years of Ollongren are four lost years. Years in which we see our democracy slipping away as sand between our fingers, in which we have become increasingly slaves to the unitary party and in which we may by order applaud for state ideology. I'm glad it's over soon. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u50	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Middendorp on behalf of the VVD. It might be good to indicate how many minutes you need for the first term and for the second term. You can also just talk and then we'll just keep track; you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At least I'll try to talk as long as my predecessor. I also repeat his first sentence: congratulations on your birthday. And also with the honorary doctorate of my alma mater. Of course, that's very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u52	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u53	Mr. Chairman. What I really stand for here is the strong and smart state, because a strong state must also be a smart and democratic and verifiable state. And that's what we see more than ever during the corona crisis. This is not just about money, but also about cooperation, knowledge and skills, because they often make the difference, by which we can improve the services of our government for people and businesses and with which we can truly support public innovation, our society and our economy. Mr. Chairman. I know from experience: if you're not big, you have to be smart. By the way, I think there are more people in the room who know that. In any case, you need to be able to work smartly together and buy services. The CoronaMelder was quickly developed and also relatively quickly passed through the Second and First Chambers; so far, so good. After a bad start, it was a good example of how the government develops an ICT solution in open cooperation. Last year's budget treatment announced that a comparison would be made between self-innovation and developing ICT services as public authorities on the one hand and cooperating with and buying from market players or others on the other. What are the conclusions of that comparison? Mr. Chairman. Europe plays a major role in this cooperation. Europe has started to regard data as a fifth pillar of the internal market. This pillar has been added to the pillars of goods, people, capital and services. The public service, which I was just talking about, is going to be affected and affected. The quality of public services is currently being investigated by both the Chamber and the Cabinet. The European Commission is working on plans that could have major implications for institutions such as the SVB and the UWV. I call the Single Digital Gateway. What comes out will directly affect citizens and entrepreneurs in the Netherlands. I'd like a response. What is the government's commitment to this? We have seen in recent months that public services, for example in support packages, are extremely important. How does the cabinet view cooperation with Europe on this issue? How much are we gonna do ourselves? Mr. Chairman. One of the developments that is extremely important for the government of the future is the development of cloud and data services. It sounds a little far from everyone's bed, but everyone has them on their phones and uses them every day. In these kinds of state-wide developments, ICT developments, digitalising developments, I see too often that the connection between parts of the government is not working properly. Developing cloud and data services is a huge opportunity. In this case, the Ministry should not do everything on its own, but rather cooperate with users and market players and deploy knowledge and infrastructure that already exist. I refer, for example, to cybersecurity for Defence and also to the knowledge and data of an institution that has been in existence for a long time, the CBS. That's all day doing data; we just call it something else. As I said, the cabinet must also work outside the government, because it must not end with the cloud and data services strategy as it does with algorithms and artificial intelligence. The VVD has made proposals to get human control of algorithms in the Netherlands halfway through this cabinet period, but yet you can see that there are waiting for the European Commission to come forward with proposals. Those proposals, or parts of them, must of course come from Europe, but the more the Netherlands is doing itself to develop cloud and data services, the stronger the Netherlands will soon be in the European discussions on, for example, the cloud and data project GAIA-X. I'd like a response from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. I said that a smart state must also be democratically controlled. As the Netherlands, we ourselves must be able to guarantee the integrity of our elections, while maintaining freedom of expression, as we know it, also online. The Minister is busy making the physical side of the elections coronaproof, but she must work at least as hard on the digital side of the elections on 17 March next year, so that they can be fair and safe. We shouldn't be naive. In the Netherlands too, domestic or foreign evildoers can interfere in our elections. What is being done against the hacking of politicians, as happened in Germany?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u54	Finish your sentence, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u55	What is being done to prevent evildoers, inside or outside, from abusing social media during the elections? Perhaps Mr Paternotte has the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u56	Yes, Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u57	It's a very good question. Only, Mr Middendorp says: what is being done? There is a very clear answer to that question that there was already a few years ago, namely that the European Union has, with EUvsDisinfo, the European Commission to which you have just referred, an agency that is working against disinformation, which is committed to uncovering it and bringing it out. If you ask what's being done, I can see what the VVD has done. I don't know if you remember that, but the VVD has tabled a motion stating that that agency should be lifted. So my question is: if you ask what needs to be done, why did you say at the time that the most important instrument against disinformation had to disappear?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u58	What Mr Paternotte calls the most important instrument against disinformation is indeed something we were not in favour of. What I just said wasn't about disinformation at all. It was about digital interference in our election. To answer the question: that desk against disinformation was engaged in blacking out websites of small newspapers in the east of the country. And that didn't seem very useful to this whole Chamber at the time. I don't remember the position of D66, but there was broad support to tell the European Commission that they might have to deal with some other threats. That's what the Minister did. But that's not at all what I'm talking about here either. I am talking here about the possibility of digital interference in our elections in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u59	I think this is an incredibly weak answer. 'Cause that's blacking out those magazines... I think even the VVD sometimes makes a mistake, but that might not be a reason to completely cancel the VVD. My question is this. I am very pleased that the VVD has been turned into this, because your own MEP Jan Huitema has called for a doubling of the budget of EUvsDisinfo. I hope you will also say: the VVD is now convinced of the usefulness of this instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u60	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u61	As I've just explained, absolutely not. I believe that the Netherlands itself must guarantee freedom of expression in the Netherlands and that the Netherlands itself must guarantee the integrity of our elections online. This is an instrument that Mr Paternotte heard about four years ago. In the meantime, we have talked about this situation here every year. It is much wider than Mr Paternotte actually suggests. He is now referring to an institution which, in my opinion, rightly no longer focuses on the blacking out of Dutch newspapers in the east of the country. It is right that this has been abolished. There are very different possibilities and I think it is very important that the Minister gets to work on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u62	Finally, Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u63	In fact, Mr Paternotte wrote an article about this in the newspaper this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u64	Mr. Paternotte, he's not finished yet. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u65	Mr President, Mr Middendorp says that the institute has been abolished.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u66	Mr. Paternotte, Mr. Middendorp wasn't ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u67	Mr Paternotte referred to it as a weak answer, but I said for a moment: I am a little surprised that Mr Paternotte came up with at least a weak question about an institution that I did not think was so useful. But he did write an article on this issue in the AD this week. In that he talks about very different things than this European agency, which fortunately no longer focuses on the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u68	Finally, Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u69	Now Mr Middendorp says that the agency has been abolished, but that is not the case at all. As I have just said, the VVD in Europe wants to double the budget for the same agency, an agency which Mr Middendorp still says he wants to lift. I find that hard to follow. Then let me ask the following question. If he says here that the Minister must make it clear what she is doing, what is the most important proposal he is making here to ensure that our elections are protected from foreign interference through fake news?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u70	You say, "I find it hard to follow." It's possible. Like I said, we've been working on this for a long time. I think it is very important that the attention of the cabinet now also focuses on the digital integrity of our electoral processes, because we have not talked about this for a very long time. In short and well, I think, as I have just said, the Netherlands itself should be able to guarantee the integrity of the elections online. For this, we must not be dependent on European alarm systems, nor must we become dependent on what the big tech companies are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u71	Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u72	Mr President, may I have one last time? Of course, I asked a simple question to Mr Middendorp: what is his main proposal from the VVD to protect the Dutch elections? But then he says: I think it is important that we do not leave that to Europe. I think everyone can then hear that the VVD apparently has no proposal. Let me ask the last question: do you want to join us in actually imposing this duty of care on tech companies, as Germany does, thereby giving them a hard responsibility to prevent fake news from being distributed during elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u73	The conclusion that the VVD has not made any proposals to prevent digital interference in elections seems to me to be based on a lack of follow-up to the VVD's proposals. And perhaps the proposals put forward by Mr Paternotte come out of the vein of the aforementioned party mate of his. Because the way he describes them there, I can't follow them. I think that Mr Paternotte is a bit out of order, because I have just said that we have tabled a motion before the summer with Mr Asscher which contains a lot of proposals to ensure that our elections are conducted safely online.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u74	I would like to support Mr Middendorp, first of all. That EUvsDisinfo was terrible. Those were activists from Ukraine, I believe, who wanted BNNVARA to be blacked out through Europe, via Brussels, and I think the website Joop, the website ThePostOnline and the daily De Gelderlander. The daily De Gelderlander had to go black from Europe! No, I very much agree with Mr Middendorp on that. However, I do not know whether what Mr Paternotte said is true: the VVD in Europe has advocated that this institute should continue and even provide additional funding. So I can't rhyme with those two things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u75	I cannot entirely reconcile that either, because what I have just said is that at least we have tabled this motion with the SP in full conviction. Mr Paternotte was right about the fact that EUvsDisinfo, as requested by the SP and the VVD, has not been abolished, but I understand from the cabinet that other agreements have been made in Brussels and that this agency focuses more on the external borders rather than on the Netherlands. So there could be something in there that makes that desk have a completely different form and activity these days. In any case, it no longer focuses on the Netherlands and that is very important to me. At the same time, I believe that this agency can continue in this role, in order to protect the external borders. As long as it's not about blacking out publications, it doesn't fit in with the way I look at freedom of expression. But that is absolutely not the solution to the problems we have here in terms of digital elections. I thank Mr Van Raak for the clear definition of what EUvsDisinfo did here, because that is a lot better than what Mr Paternotte came up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u76	Thank you, but here, of course, a little bit clashes that the VVD and D66 in Europe simply form one group, form one opinion, have one position. And of course that's kind of weird. That is the problem of these liberal friends, and they will have to solve it themselves, but I would nevertheless like to call on the VVD, a little common sense in this regard, to ensure that at least we do not get European censorship from the independent media in the Netherlands. That must be the position and we must stand for it. Take a break from D66: no European censorship of independent media in the Netherlands. Does Mr Middendorp agree on that on behalf of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u77	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u78	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u79	I thank Mr Van Raak once again for putting common sense on this side. He doesn't always do that, I happen to know. But, yes, I do nothing but point out the developments that are coming from Europe. Of course, we need to work together in Europe, also digitally. I have just made a number of comments. When it comes to protecting freedom of expression in the Netherlands, I would like to distance myself from D66 on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u80	Good. Mr. Martin Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u81	That's interesting, because the VVD is of course a coalition party. Mr Middendorp undoubtedly read the letter from the day before yesterday, which Mrs Ollongren sent us. What does Mrs. Ollongren want? She wants European laws to be introduced. She even writes about two European laws that need to be put in place to fight against what those figures call fake news. I like that Mr Middendorp is a bit of a hero here, but the cabinet he supports is doing something quite different from what he says. Because the cabinet says: we are still hoping for two EU laws to deal with the fake news.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u82	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Well, I thank Mr Bosma, as far as it was a compliment, for complimenting the hero. I notice, and I am delighted to see that Mr Bosma spoke with Mr Paternotte about interference in the interruption. That's the first time. I've been working on Mr. Bosma for four years. He keeps talking to me about fake news. He must have noticed that I haven't said so much about fake news. So that's one thing. Secondly, the answer to the question. I said that we should not become dependent on the European Commission when it comes to our freedom of expression and the integrity of our elections online. I don't want to. As regards the sentence in Mr Bosma's letter, he will recall that last year I tabled a motion to ask the cabinet to ensure that one of the two laws he mentions does not affect freedom of expression in the Netherlands. I believe that Mr Bosma has also supported it, for which he thanked ex post.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u83	What a painful twist. On an interruption by Mr Van Raak, the VVD says: "No, no interference, you know. I'm tough, I'm against it and I'm not working on it." I also have the ANP press release: Ollongren hopes that the rules will be laid down in two EU laws that are currently being worked on and are expected to be adopted by the end of 2020. On this point, Mr Middendorp says: I hope that freedom of expression will not be put under pressure. So now it's just kind of a pile. At first, Mr Middendorp fell apart because Mr Paternotte had been paying attention to what was happening in Brussels. In Brussels, the VVD simply says: go, get more money to EUvsDisinfo. Mr Middendorp says here: no interference from Europe. And what does it turn out to be? The government supported by the VVD is simply hoping for two EU laws. It's all tough talk, but you're gonna prick right through it. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u84	Well, I don't have the impression that Mr. Bosma's stinging through it like that. I think it's a profit that he's now making a difference between fake news and digital interference. I also think it's a win that he's not putting all that fake news on me anymore. That's a win, too. I respond to the call that Mr Bosma is now making again to respond to the letter. On the sentences he refers to, I tabled a motion last year to ensure that this does not affect freedom of expression in the Netherlands. The problem is actually much bigger than Mr Bosma suggests, because these two laws, or whatever comes from Europe, are not at all ready before the elections are here in the Netherlands. It's actually a much greater concern than his concern that all kinds of coalition games can arise. I said that my opinion is that we should not become dependent on Brussels when it comes to our democracy. I think we should settle that before the election.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u85	Those are all tough talk, but the VVD just goes along. Freedom of expression must not be compromised. That also sounds very sacred, but we see in Mr Verhoeven's letter, which is not here today, that we are talking about combating hatred and discrimination. That sounds very nice, but I do know how hatred and discrimination are going to be explained. So criticism of Islam is going to be interpreted as hatred. If you say "no, we have to stop mass immigration," that's going to be interpreted as discrimination. That's how they work. The VVD always goes along with that and says: yes, freedom of speech. But these are the slogans used by the EU. These are the slogans used by Mr Verhoeven yesterday in the daily newspaper: hatred and discrimination. We know how that's explained. Don't act like you fell off the moon, because this is how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u86	I find it difficult to follow Mr Bosma's questions because of how they were built. First he says, "This is all nothing, these are tough talk." Then he says the VVD says something. Then he brings up Mr Verhoeven. He presents a number of things that Mr Verhoeven has said and I have to respond to them. I find that difficult, but I'm gonna try anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u87	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u88	I'm gonna try that on one for Mr Verh... No, not Mr Verhoeven, because of course he is watching at the moment. I also think that he has never been mentioned so often in a debate, except probably by Mr Bosma. I am going to do that in an interesting way for Mr Bosma when it comes to freedom of speech online and when it comes to the issues he raises here. I asked a great many questions at the time when Mr Wilders, fellow party member of Mr Bosma, was blocked on Twitter. That seems to me to be a good benchmark for Mr Bosma to see how I stand in this and what the VVD is doing to protect freedom of expression online in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u89	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u90	"Continue." Where was I? Oh, yes, at the time when Mr Paternotte asked for proposals. It would be good if there were rules on archives for political advertisements on online platforms and media, so that we can see what happened or what happens. It would be good to know what online media platforms do to verify funders of political advertisements. What should not happen is that we wake up on 18 March and ask ourselves: what has actually happened online in recent weeks? Mr. Chairman. A very different but crucial point is the digital tool for calculating the election result. There would be a new system, but it was chosen to improve the existing system. Why? Does that solve the risks that were there? And if it is now well arranged for the March elections next year, I ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The Minister refers to the European Commission in terms of regulation of digital campaigns. I have already said in the interruption with Mr Bosma............................................................................................................................................................. Mr. Chairman. Local and regional directors in municipalities and provinces are working hard every day for their inhabitants. The corona crisis affects our entire society and also our communities and their finances. We must prevent the Empire and the municipalities from competing in the search for solutions, so we must work together on this. We must also avoid a huge increase in the local burden on citizens and entrepreneurs in order to cope with the corona crisis. Will the Minister undertake to engage with the VNG and other stakeholders in order to see what can be done to help put municipal finances in order, where there are problems, without the button 'that's to increase the local burden enormously'? Additional money has already been made available by the cabinet to the municipalities. That's good. But have agreements been made about, for example, financial management and, again, the local burden? The Minister will present proposals for the Community Fund at the end of this year. Simplification, stability and greater transparency are crucial for the VVD. We will also pay close attention to the distribution between large, medium and small municipalities. Mr. Chairman. I have talked about levels of government, the European Union and locality. Agencies are another important component of government, but they are often not the carriers of the smart government that is in the middle of society, as the VVD wants. For example, it is difficult from the Chamber to get a grip on the Rijksvaastgoedbedrijf, for example when it comes to projects such as the renovation of the Binnenhof. It is a huge organisation, so the sales and austerity programmes that this agency manages are sometimes difficult to follow. The National Real Estate Company is of course a very old organisation. But also with relatively new agencies, such as the ICT executive of the Logius Empire, you can see that it is difficult for the Chamber to control them, while doing tremendously important things for the government and for Dutch society. I'd like a response from the Minister to this case. I think that at the very old agency of the National Real Estate Company and the new Logius there are interesting improvements in the control if both are compared. I would also like to receive a response to the Court's observations on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u91	Before you continue, there is an interruption by Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u92	You once had the National Buildings Service. There were civil servants with a heart for beautiful buildings. When it became the National Real Estate Company, it came into the hands of a bit of shady real estate types. Isn't that why it went wrong? Isn't the reason why a little underworld-like real estate culture was imported into a government agency where at first there were just good civil servants?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u93	I don't think that's the reason. This is the same kind of run-up as Mr Bosma just took. I ask the cabinet to see what is the reason for the problems I have described. I do not think it goes as far as Mr Van Raak suggests here. He's ahead of the question I asked the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u94	I think that's where the problem lies. Once we had the National Buildings Service with people with heart for buildings. Together with the residents they tried to organize as well as possible that the buildings were in order and that people could work well there. They made sure everyone could stay there nicely. When I look at the National Real Estate Company, I see that there the culture from the real estate world dominates. For example, the real estate company does not even intend to engage residents seriously, to inform them properly and to tell the truth. People spend all day playing real estate games. Isn't that the problem we're having at the National Real Estate Company?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u95	Again, I don't think that's the main problem. I don't know if that's the problem either. The culture to which Mr Van Raak refers can be an important point. The cultural changes that have taken place there recently can be very important. Mr Van Raak made a comparison with the real estate world. I don't think he meant that positively. I don't think that comparison is entirely valid. From a previous life, I know that world pretty well. I think Mr Van Raak has the wrong idea. I'm pretty sure when I hear his description like that. The problem is wider than just culture. It is also in open cooperation with other parties within the government, as I have just indicated. Mr Van Raak talked about doing things for people. That's what this is about. That's what I said. It's about working together, not managing our own kingdom. These can be important elements. Again, I'm curious to hear the government's response. Mr. Chairman. A strong state also includes a digital government that works. It is a good thing with the last BZK budget of this cabinet, at least I suspect to note that some of the VVD's proposals have been implemented by this cabinet and in particular the reporting cycle and the way in which BZK works on the state-wide coordination of ICT. It is a pity, however, that the last step in copying the method was not taken in the case of finance. A state inspection digitalization could make a major contribution, such as the Ministry of Finance's Ministry of Finance. I would like to believe that this has consequences for the Compatibility Act, but I would ask the Minister to reflect on that again. I think it can be a very important structural change. And it could also be something to give to a next cabinet. Mr. Chairman. In the end, it's people, people who want to work in the government. This also applies to people with a distance from the labour market. There's been an agreement about hiring these people. It seems that this year's government is going to do less good than, for example, the business community, with which the same agreements have been made. What is the Minister's commitment to doing better in 2021? I have one more question about attracting people. The demand for ICT personnel is increasing at this time, I think. I ask the Minister whether the conditions of employment in the public sector are still workable for the adoption of ICTs. The public authorities have a great advantage in the fight for ICT talent, because it offers projects that professionals in business can only dream of. It's up to the cabinet to make use of it. I'm asking the Minister, can you do that? Mr. Chairman. Because of the corona crisis, a lot of what we talked to this cabinet about for four years gets a whole new momentum. I have always said that what goes between the government and the Dutch physically must also be digital. Because applications like MyGovernment and applications of the Tax Administration only work if it is done in a way that is understandable to people. At the same time, we must pay attention to those people who cannot come digitally. They too must have access to government, even in these times. Mr President, I will conclude. How much is important, but how we spend taxpayers' money is at least as important. A strong and smart government is well organized and cooperates with others. It is not about building as many new systems as possible or producing as many long policy visions as possible. These are better public services and public innovations that contribute to a safe and stronger Netherlands. And the contribution of a strong and smart government is needed more than ever during this corona crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u96	A quick question, Mr. Faster. I have not limited the number of interruptions, but it is not the intention to interrupt too much, with every remark, I say. Mr. Faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u97	Too much is never good, Mr. Chairman. And spending too much money on the government isn't good either. I keep hearing the VVD over the last three budgets about a strong state. In itself I think that is a very nice mantra, but what I miss is the reflection on what the VVD itself has preached over the past ten years and has done at that point, and what its consequences have been for that strong state. Would Mr Middendorp please reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u98	That wasn't a very short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u99	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u100	And it seems to me that it is difficult to say anything about that in a very brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u101	Try it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u102	I'm definitely gonna do that. Look, Mr. Sneller heard that I was talking about a strong and smart state. Because I said at the beginning, "If you're not strong, you have to be smart." But it's a combination. So I think it's very important that we use the tax money we use as government in a smart way. That is, I think, a very important area, and that is an area in which the Ministry of the Interior can play a major role. I haven't heard that in all the contributions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u103	It wasn't short and it wasn't an answer. At Rutte I, there's just been a lot of cuts on the government. We see all the problems with implementation organisations. We see the problems with legislative capacity in different ministries. And then the VVD comes up with the story: there must be a strong state. That's all wonderful, but what I'm asking is, how do you look back on what happened back then? This has always been done with the support of the VVD and often under the leadership of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u104	Well, the question was a little shorter, but it's still a huge question. I will try to answer the question very briefly. Mr Sneller gives an appreciation of Rutte I. It's that cabinet that's made a lot of cuts. You can say a lot about that. At that time the VVD supported that; yes, of course. But that is also why we can now come up with aid packages, but that may become a little too complicated for the Home Affairs budget. If we hadn't cut back in those days and hadn't dealt with the crisis at the time, there wouldn't have been any money at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u105	I'm going to see Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u106	I'm trying to keep it short, too. You say'strong state', but that must of course also be given substance. If you look back at all these austerity measures, including the many decentralisations and the tasks assigned to the municipalities, you have always been accompanied by austerity measures. What else would you like to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u107	No, I keep saying, a strong and smart state. I'm not interested in whether this new state is big or small. A small state can also do very good things for citizens by working smartly together, by innovating and by supporting society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u108	For smartness, the municipalities don't buy anything. There is also a need to invest in the quality of life of neighbourhoods, communities. I would say: look at that again with a critical eye, including yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u109	The VVD says: invest out the crisis. I understand the point very well, and that's part of the story as well. But what we were talking about, and what Mr Sneller's question was about, is: what can you do, then, is not about money to actually make municipalities work better for their inhabitants? There are a lot of examples of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u110	Thank you, Mr. Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u111	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u112	I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The world, as well as our country, is severely affected by the corona pandemic. Everyone notices the consequences of this every day. The budget for BZK, including that for the Municipal and Provincial Funds, which we are discussing today, is also partly devoted to corona. Mr. Chairman. The government closest to the people is the city. Municipalities play a major and important role for society. They ensure that the public space, the streets, the neighborhoods, the parks and the greenery is well maintained. They ensure that the decentralised tasks of youth care, the Wmo and the Participation Act are properly carried out. The vulnerable people in society must continue to be well supported. The municipalities ensure that the quality of life is maintained in the towns and villages by investing in community work, libraries, swimming pools, sports fields, playgrounds and cultural facilities. Then I haven't even mentioned the great task that the municipalities see coming to, such as the energy transition, the realization of additional housing and the Environment Act. That is all very important work. However, we are seeing increasing pressure on facilities and investment. GroenLinks is very concerned about this. From Amsterdam to Stadskanaal and from Schiermonnikoog to Heerlen: almost all municipalities suffer from financial deficits that they can barely solve themselves and for which they do not receive sufficient resources from the Empire. And then there's the big blow to unemployment. We are told weekly by municipalities in all shapes and sizes and by all directors, from left to right, that it is no longer possible. They say that a solution must be found. Mr. Chairman. Especially in these fragile times of corona, it is extremely important that we enable municipalities to maintain the quality of life in the cities and villages. They are crucial in this respect. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this cabinet is really not doing enough. Yeah, municipalities get corona compensation. This will allow some of the worst needs to be emptied. But I'm afraid it's not enough. For example, last week we saw that the entire city council of Stadskanaal said: "That's enough. We will not continue to make more cuts, because we will destroy crucial facilities in our municipality." For example, there are many more examples of municipalities that are no longer financially strong. I'd like a comprehensive response from the Minister. What is it going to do to ensure in the coming months and in the coming year that municipalities do not have to fall because of their finances? Is it prepared to delete the scaling-up discount permanently? Mr. Chairman. Of course, only short-term solutions for municipalities are not yet available. We can see that the problems for municipalities have become structural, and we can also see that there is a constant debate on what exactly is needed in terms of resources to enable municipalities to do their job properly. In order to avoid these discussions as far as possible in the future, more structural changes are needed in the case of GroenLinks. First of all, it would be a good idea to have an arbitration system in place to settle differences of opinion between the Empire and the co-governments. In addition, it would be good to provide a legal anchor for financial relations. We understand that too often municipalities are not involved in decisions that affect them financially. Mr. Chairman. Another important point for my group is the improvement of democracy and citizen involvement. In this minister we often find a good ally there in terms of tone and views. However, we would like the Minister to take a number of concrete steps here. For example, I would like to hear from the Minister that the law governing the right to challenge is coming to the Chamber this year. We've been talking about this for a long time now. Together with colleagues Van der Molen and Van der Graaf, we have called several times for a legal anchoring, but the announced law is still not there. Why? Another concern concerns the participation of young people. A number of further steps can be taken, in particular with regard to the strengthening of the position of young people. Is the Minister prepared to make any further efforts to this end?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u114	Indeed, citizens must have more opportunities to express their opinion, for example against all the crazy windmills that GroenLinks places everywhere and destroy our landscape or against all the crazy biomass plants that GroenLinks places everywhere. Citizen participation is therefore very good. Now GroenLinks comes up with a very interesting proposal. That's called "civil panels"; GroenLinks has signed a motion to create civilian panels. That's gotta be something you're gonna get into at local level or something. Mrs Özütok is the spokesman for the Interior and has undoubtedly thought this through. Can she explain how these civilian panels are going to work? Can everyone go in there? Is it about every subject, including mass immigration? Are they going to make decisions? How do they relate to municipal councils and provincial states? Tell me about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u115	It is an excellent tool to talk a little more together with citizens and with experts on essential issues that concern the municipality's decisions, on the one hand, to gain more knowledge of the matter and also to clarify the direction that policy might take. That is why we think it is an extremely important instrument. You are in favour of a referendum, of a corrective referendum. This not only involves you as a citizen at the end of the whole decision-making process, but also before that you will be taken into account in the way policies or decisions are made. I'd think you'd really like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u116	What a weird and fuzzy story. There is a huge motion, almost a whole side, signed by GroenLinks. I ask what "civil panels" mean in practice. How do they relate to state law and how do they relate to the city council? Are they above the city council or below it? Are they advising? The only answer I get is that you can talk to experts in those civilian panels. GroenLinks wants to organize a kind of cafes or something, so you can chat with each other. So that's basically civilian panels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u117	I find that really insulting for the panels, which are already present and which are also doing a very good job in many municipalities. You disqualify the citizen in terms of knowledge and want to contribute to the direction of a policy. I think I've been very, very clear. We are in favour of citizens bringing in their knowledge and expertise and giving their views before a decision is taken. That's what we'd like to hear. Yeah, I guess you don't think so. I am very much in favour of hearing citizens on these essential issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u118	I do not disqualify the citizen; I disqualify the spokesperson of GroenLinks. GroenLinks is presenting a motion on civilian panels. Apparently, that's very important. Apparently it's all worked out and apparently it's something that already exists. Then I'm just asking, what do these civilian panels have to say? What power do they have? Are they gonna hire civil servants, too? Are they above the congregations? Can they correct the municipalities? Can it be about all the subjects? How does that work in practice? It is an important political innovation that GroenLinks presents here. Then all I hear is: yes, they can talk to experts. I understand that this idea has simply not been worked out at all, that it is not the beginning of an idea and that there is not the beginning of an effect. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u119	I think I've been very, very clear. The point is that the citizens, together with the city council, will guide the decision to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u120	Go! Go! Go! Go! Go! Go!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u121	Right, and you're not in favour of that. Maybe that's why you don't really want to understand. Then we can discuss this for a very long time, but I'm afraid the quarter won't fall on you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u122	Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u123	Bishop?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u124	He's next, but he's gonna have to wait for the microphone to be cleaned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u125	In quarantine, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u126	We're going to lock Mr. Bishop up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u127	In quarantine? So he says he's infected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u128	Now he stands next to Mr Middendorp. No, there's plenty of distance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u129	About 1.5 meters, at least 1.40 meters. Mr. Chairman. We can indeed talk about it for a very long time, but this deserves a good thought. What is the state-law position of these civilian panels? Mrs Özütok says: together with the council. But with whom does the perseverance ultimately rest?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u130	It is ultimately the council that decides on this, but it is in consultation. The whole process of decision-making is thus shaped at the front, together with the citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u131	Yeah, but what does a civilian panel add to the possibilities that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u132	Do I still have to explain the principles of democracy here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u133	Shall I try to formulate my question correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u134	Yes, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u135	What does a civil panel add to what is already possible? A city council can simply make agreements with a citizen about which route one follows. In the end, the Council of State Law remains simply the highest body. So what does a civilian panel add except that it's another name?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u136	You're asking an interesting question. Citizens' panels can also submit subjects themselves. That is the most essential element of this idea of democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u137	Mr President, may I make one last attempt?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u138	Yes, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u139	It's been a long time, isn't it? I mean, can't that just happen through a petition or how they can organize it? There are a lot of possibilities. But what is the added value of such a panel, apart from the fact that there will be a new gremium, which does not benefit transparency and therefore the clarity of the constitutional structure? What is the essence of the innovation now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u140	The essence of the innovation is that a new instrument is added when it comes to the participation of citizens in essential issues. Citizens can also submit their own subjects. The Remkes Committee also talks about different forms of deliberative democracy. This is a form of it and we would like to experiment with it. We would like to gain experience at municipal level. Perhaps it will be a very good instrument if we decide here, for example, on windmills, which Mr Bosma was talking about. Maybe a civilian panel can make a ruling on that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u141	Finally, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u142	Mr President, one final comment. I am always willing to think together with GroenLinks about how to organise the democratic process even better, but I do think that before all kinds of things are dropped and test balloons are released, they need to be properly thought out first. I do not think that is what this proposal is missing at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u143	It certainly isn't. I don't think you've been digging into the whole process. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, it is important enough to ensure and encourage the participation of citizens in all possible ways. That is why I think this is an important instrument, a valuable tool for engaging in good conversation with the citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u144	Local democracy is at my heart, so I really want to take all the proposals very seriously, so this proposal too. I think it is very important that council members involve citizens, involve people, have people come forward. My party does a lot of action with people to get interests in the city council and in local politics. But I also wonder what the difference is between people who report to a councilman and people who sit on that civil panel. And a question related to that: how do we determine which people and which people are not on that civil panel?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u145	Well, I was a councilman. When I talk to one citizen, it's with one and not with a collective, unless it's really a collective. As a city council member, you do not have the opportunity to talk to different groups together with different perspectives on a subject. So in that sense, it is a good tool for city council members to talk to each other collectively in as diverse a group as possible. Then the last thing you said: what does it add? It is essential to include this collective thought as a council member. As GroenLinks, we have organised things in this area. I found it very valuable to hear that, but also to see how influence goes in the political process. And it is essential that citizens get that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u146	I think councilmen should talk to all the people, as broad as possible. Only, now you get a little bit: you have the people in the village or the city, and you have the people in a civilian council. What is one citizen more than another? So what is the difference between one citizen and the other citizen? And also very important: how is it chosen? Are there elections for that, or are we going to do that with a dice? How do you, as an ordinary citizen, who can address the city council, in that civil panel, which focuses on the city council?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u147	In terms of people's choice, they can be key people, but they can also be ordinary citizens. Ad random people can be chosen. Then it is up to the citizen to indicate whether he wants to take part in it or not. If he doesn't, the selection goes on and another citizen is approached for such a trial. I think it is very important for citizens to have experience of this, as well as politicians, so that one day we can have a good thought, together with the citizens, on essential issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u148	I suggest you continue with your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u149	Mr. Chairman. Another urgent point is the approach to disinformation. The Lower House elections are on the doorstep, but GroenLinks is still not confident that everything is being done to prevent digital interference and disinformation. What is the Minister going to do in concrete terms to arm the upcoming campaign, which is likely to take place mostly online because of corona, against digital interference and fake news? Mr. Chairman. Last year we saw a movement towards equality, a movement against discrimination, against racism, before an inclusive society in which we judge each other on value rather than on appearance, orientation or contribution to society. More than ever before, people demand justice. I am pleased that we held a debate in July, here in the Chamber, on the extent to which racism affects the relations of power in our society. It is important that we continue to raise it here in the Chamber, but above all that we make concrete proposals to prevent and eliminate this systematic exclusion. Can the Minister comment on how, in her opinion, our slavery history continues to work today? Does she agree with GroenLinks that our colonial past, which knows violence and oppression, has led to discrimination and disadvantage in our present society? What concrete measures can the Minister propose to respond to this social call for equality? Is the Minister also prepared, for example, to examine whether Papiaments can be a full-fledged language? Mr. Chairman. The fact remains that discrimination continues to occur on a daily basis. More than a quarter of the Dutch experienced discrimination in 2018. Violence against Ihbti-plus persons continues to rage across the country. Last month, a young adult in Utrecht was scolded and beaten up, purely and solely because of his sexual orientation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u150	Very briefly, Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u151	Very briefly. Systematically or systemicly, as it is called, racism is indeed increasing. This can be seen in Amsterdam, where GroenLinks has a mayor. We see that 30% of the higher functions there must be fulfilled by non-whites. That's a racist personnel policy. Can GroenLinks briefly explain to me why it opts for racism and why Amsterdam has been the first municipality since 1945 to simply openly pursue racist policies under a GroenLinkssburgemaster?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u152	This is really very reprehensible. The municipality of Amsterdam does diversity policy. It's now being portrayed as racism. This is so reprehensible that I do not even want to go into it any further. Equality and diversity are sought. Apparently, this does not come about automatically in a city like Amsterdam. This needs policy and support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u153	No, it's just discrimination. You're white and you want to have that high office in Amsterdam. You've worked hard. Your father worked at the shipyard in Amsterdam-Noord. You've been studying hard. You've gone up. You want that position, that high office at the municipality of Amsterdam, where GroenLinks, the former communist party of the Netherlands, the RaRa party, is now in charge. And what happens? You're rejected because you're white. What do we call that, when you put one race above the other race? It's called racism. That is racist policy, Mrs Özütok. And GroenLinks is responsible for the racist policy. I understand that you do not want to answer that, because you do not even dare to defend your own racism here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u154	It wasn't your father, it was my father who worked at the Droogdok Maatschappij in Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u155	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u156	Mr. Chairman. It goes without saying that everyone must feel safe in the Netherlands, regardless of your skin colour, age, gender identity, sexual orientation, origin, limitations or whatever. We know Article 1 of the Constitution, which states clearly that discrimination is prohibited. The instruments are here. We also see that there is a willingness to report cases of discrimination, but it is still not possible to demand justice in the system. What does the Minister think he can do about this? Mr. Chairman. I hope that the Minister sees the approach to discrimination as a top priority, just like GroenLinks. As I have said, I have seen little concrete policy in response to the systematic problem we see. I hope that when the policy comes, there will also be explicit attention to discrimination against people with disabilities. Having a paid job and attending higher education are extremely difficult for some people with disabilities. Mr. Chairman. Corona time makes it all the more clear that digitalisation can no longer be left out of our society. People are called to work more at home. Many other activities are also kept digital. People who are digitally less skilled or who have less digital access because they have no money to regulate good equipment or fast internet and people who live in areas where the range is not yet optimal are less able to participate. My group is concerned about this because it threatens to create a division. I know that the Secretary of State is committed to increasing access to digital services. I wonder if that's enough for these vulnerable groups. I would like a commitment that digital support will also remain in order while municipalities also have to do all kinds of things to keep their heads above water. Mr. Chairman. Then two separate questions. Last year, the government wrote that an information strategy is being developed. Can the Minister please give us an update on the situation? Will the government continue to secure information? Finally. With regard to the renovation of the Binnenhof and the temporary accommodation, I ask the Secretary of State to send the underlying reports to the Chamber and to make them public, so that we can get a complete picture of the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u157	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. Then I will go to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And congratulations. Mr. Chairman. The NRC had the best summary of the financial state of our local government in April of this year, as it said: for municipalities the coronavirus is one cost too much. It is precisely in the corona crisis that the Empire leans on the municipalities, but at the same time the virus is one cost too much for those municipalities. It is therefore a good thing that the cabinet came out with a compensation package of EUR 770 million for municipalities after the first package of EUR 556 million. The Minister indicated that in spring 2021 there would be a review of the loss of revenue and the costs for municipalities. The CDA keeps that commitment to the Minister. After the hard austerity round of the previous cabinet and the hasty decentralisation of care tasks, many municipalities were already not in good shape. Our local government is financially weak, and that is not a good starting point if an unexpected cost is incurred. That is why it was a good thing that the cabinet cleared 1 billion extra for the rising costs of youth care, and that is why the CDA Group is pleased that it has managed to release EUR 300 million extra for youth care. On Prinsjesdag the taboo on the scale discount was also reduced. The discount on the Municipal Fund will be reversed before 2020, which is a windfall for municipalities for this year, and the discount will not be implemented in 2021, with a cut of 160 million euros off the table. As a CDA, we voted against the introduction of the scaling-up discount and it is good to see that its reversal is in sight. Now that the Central Planning Bureau has also indicated that the full scale reduction is not feasible, I ask the Minister to give her opinion on the future of that discount. For even though I am happy to mention, as I have just done, the amounts released by this cabinet, it is not yet a structural solution to the financial situation of the municipalities. In addition, the Minister intends to redistribute the money between municipalities. I ask her how feasible she considers this revision of the Municipal Fund to be at present. On behalf of the CDA Group, I have already indicated that no re-evaluation is better than a bad re-evaluation, especially if small and medium-sized municipalities that are already suffering financially would suffer. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, the signal is red. Does the Minister see that as well, and when can we expect clarity on this? Before the summer, we also discussed the financial position of municipalities in this Chamber, and then the minister wrote that it was still financially not so bad with the municipalities. As far as I am concerned, that was a low point in the discussion we had with the Minister. A ministry claiming to be the keeper of the local government does not seem to know what the financial flag of the municipalities is. It cannot be the case that provinces are responsible for financial supervision and that BZK then does not need to know anything. How does the Minister intend to improve the Ministry's information position? The Minister also said before the summer that he would like to talk to the provinces that supervise to see how coulant municipalities can be dealt with. I'm asking the Minister to reconnect the results of these talks. At the beginning of this month, the study group on Inter-Governmental and Financial Relations recommended more equality in the financial relationship between the Empire and the other governments. And she recommended that, by analogy with the regional funds, targeted benefits should also be provided for common purposes, on top of the tax area and the Municipal Fund. The CDA Group understands from provinces that regional deals that are highly valued and a good point in the coalition agreement are in practice very viscous because the money has to go through a specific benefit and that their provision is therefore long overdue. Does the Minister recall that she would come forward with a bill to enable a much faster payment for joint tasks? How much longer do we have to wait for that law? Or is it on the threshold to be sent to us? Mr. Chairman. Randstaddenkunken encourages social inequality, I quote from the essay book Land in conjunction with which the minister wrote a short but powerful preface. At the heart of the argument is that there is far too one-sided thought in The Hague about growth and shrinkage. The total economic cake has grown, but not all inhabitants and regions in the Netherlands benefit equally from it. Shrimp would be something of the region and grow something of the city, but that is too short by the turn. There is shrinking in urban and rural areas, but there is also growth in rural and medium-sized cities. But the labour market is different from what national policies are based on. Mr. Chairman. This year, the government's active shrinkage policy is ending. We don't know what's in return right now. This uncertainty is hopefully of a short duration as far as the CDA Group is concerned. We expect the Minister to make a firm move towards new regional policy. This requires, for example, a review of the national investment agenda, so that investments no longer benefit the most prosperous areas unilaterally. In her response, I would like to hear the Minister's commitment in this area. In the meantime, the Minister is already working on the successor to the major city policy. This is called the "Lifeability and Security" programme. This should improve 16 neighbourhoods in the Netherlands, in the Randstad and in medium-sized cities. And that is urgently needed. In addition to Amsterdam, Tilburg, Groningen and Heerlen, for example, Leeuwarden Centrum-Oost are also included on the Minister's list, which I know well. These districts are better known to us as Achter de Hoven, de Wielepôlle, de Schepenbuurt and Huizum-Oost. These are neighbourhoods with the necessary problems, which need to be addressed. I would like to ask the Minister whether, now that the programme is being set up, she would like to take the opportunity to see if, in addition to these sixteen urban areas, there are areas in villages that need attention, because in that case we cannot let them slip like Leeuwarden Centre-East. Because city and village don't have to face each other. Is the Minister prepared to take a serious look at this? In this context, the CDA Group would also like to reiterate the compensation arrangements with the province of Zeeland. I understand from the province of Zeeland that there is a great deal of appreciation for the role played by the State Secretary and I continue to appreciate that. However, I still have one question. I understand from Zeeland that it regularly happens that when they approach other ministries for new objectives for the provinces, they get in response: but you have already received compensation; you are not at your turn now. That cannot be the case. The compensation was based on something that did not go well on the part of the Empire. Zeeland must therefore be able to communicate in other funds. A compensation package is not a bonus. I would very much like to hear from the Secretary of State and Minister that they agree with this commitment of the CDA Group. Mr. Chairman. This budget contains little light, for example the compensation for entrepreneurs and organisations because of the mandatory use of eRecognization in the Tax Administration. That is settled and we as CDA are pleased with it. I still have a point for the Secretary of State. We are receiving signals that municipalities are now also switching to eRecognization and require its use. Many associations and foundations suffer from this in applying for subsidies, for example. Municipalities have the image that the Empire wants to impose eRecognization. Can the Secretary of State debunk that image? Mr. Chairman. I would like to return to this budget with the Council of State's unsolicited opinion on the digitisation of government. The cabinet has responded extensively to this, but one part has not been discussed: the introduction of the right to meaningful contact with the government. Citizens have the right to communicate with the government. For example, they can ask for information, give their opinion or make a complaint. For citizens who seek contact with the government is little more frustrating than ending up in a digital maze or almost being left to a call center when you can't get through it. The CDA Group is in favour of developing and implementing the right of access to government as a principle of good governance. Access must involve meaningful contact. You can see that as the result of human dignity, as a central public value. How does a citizen feel when he only contacts the government through a computer system that he doesn't understand and doesn't deal with his or her problems? In our view, the introduction of such a right fits in well with the efforts already made by the Secretary of State to make older people digital, for example. But even so: if the government only becomes a digital system, it loses its human face. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State to respond to a right of meaningful contact. Mr. Chairman. I have previously made a move with Mrs Özütok van GroenLinks to enable the Secretary of State to better guide information security in other ministries. And I am actually curious to build on that, after we have decided in this Chamber to set up a permanent committee on digital matters, no matter how he looks at what should be the opposite of a cabinet in a European perspective. Many countries already have a govern ment that deals specifically with these related issues. I know that the Secretary of State is in contact with that type of government in other European countries, so I invite the Secretary of State to find something about that too. Maybe we could give that advice to another cabinet? Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude with a few comments on disinformation and digital interference. I have already heard other colleagues on this subject. The Minister was right to put on a large pair of pants at the beginning of this cabinet period. This week, the highest boss of the Military Intelligence and Security Service warned again. He said: "In the twilight zone between war and peace, the Netherlands is under daily attack. Knowledge is stolen. Vital systems and infrastructure are under attack and attempts are being made to influence our society through disinformation." On the same day, we received a detailed letter from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Mr. Chairman. Voters should be able to vote safely, physically and freely, and voters should also be able to make their choice on the basis of relevant information about candidates and electoral programmes. But the dissemination of misleading information can disrupt that democratic process. This is a threat that we must take seriously, especially at this time when information is going around at a very rapid rate. The letter sent by the Minister to the Chamber this week does not reassure the CDA Group. Digital campaigns need to be transparent. This requires the law on political parties. The Minister says we're still working on it. The information position on misinformation and disinformation should be strengthened at European level. Please wait, the Minister says. Around the provincial and European elections in 2019 an information campaign ran and it worked well. But the Minister says that he doesn't have to do that at the next election. The minister says that there are talks between ministries to raise awareness. And with all those laws that are not yet ready for the elections, I would like to ask the Minister: couldn't the time spent in those talks be better spent speeding up the legislative process? 'Cause he's not in order right now. Mr. Chairman. The fight against interference begins with strengthening the resilience of citizens. The public campaign is on the shelf and can thus be used again in the next elections. I would like to ask the Minister whether she would not agree with that. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u159	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. I hear a child. Oh, they're upstairs. I call Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u160	Mr. Chairman. I don't know if you've read it, but what a nice interview the minister said in VNG Magazine. There was also a nice picture on the front, and also inside. Let me show you. I'll hold it up for a second. That's no less beautiful picture. I'm just wondering. I don't think this is the outer wall of the Home Office. Is this the outer wall of the Justice Department? That would be a little inappropriate, wouldn't it? Maybe the Minister can shed some light on that. "Pull on the same side of the rope," says the Minister. "It is about cooperation with the municipalities. We've done it together as governments." What a contrast is that with the image I have received over the past few weeks and months from aldermen, councilmen and even local officials, who feel completely, but also completely, abandoned by the government. That rope the minister speaks of is around their necks and attracted by the government. Because as an alderman, why don't you explain that tens of billions are going to support big companies, but that as an alderman, you have to cut back on home care, youth care, cut back on sports clubs and close the library? And then you have to increase the local burden. Then the IZB has to go up and then the waste tax has to go up. Aldermen don't get it explained and councilmen don't get it explained. I can't explain it either. I would like to invite the Minister to explain. We'll see if it works, because the house of Thorbecke is shaky: the house of Thorbecke, in which the ministries, provinces and municipalities work together on an equal footing. It's been a long time since we've had that equality. It actually started already after the turn of the year, the President will remember that with the dualisation. The so-called professionalisation of local government, in which local people's representatives, who brought the interests of the citizens into the local administration, became some kind of civil servants. People who are bent deep into the evening, with cups of coffee, over thick piles of paper. Of course, it has gone completely wrong with the decentralisations, in which the municipalities were given all kinds of tasks, thrown over the fence by the government. In a very short time, but with much and far too little money. And then his congregations were really abandoned. What do you get? That municipalities should carry out all kinds of tasks they don't have the people for. Then they're gonna hire people. In both this dualisation and the decentralisation, you can see that the consultancy has entered the local administration. The outsiders have been hired. In the meantime, an incredibly large part of the budget of personnel costs has been lost to all kinds of advisors who do not deliver, except the accounts. Then you'll be a councilman, and then you'll have to deal with scaling. The previous government said that municipalities should have 100,000 inhabitants. That's let go, but we'll get there soon. You are a council member in a municipality with 80, 85 cores and you want to stand up for your own village or your own city. Then you're gonna be sitting late at night meeting with thick piles of paperwork on cases that play 80 cores down the road. Local democracy has been undermined in this way. And then VNG Magazine and the role of the VNG. The UNG has all contributed to this dualisation, decentralisation and scaling-up, which have undermined local autonomy and democracy. The VNG is supposed to be the association of Dutch municipalities, but it is not at all. It is not at all the representative of local democracy here in The Hague. No, the VNG is the extension of the ministries in the municipalities, which prescribe municipalities how to do it and are paid by those municipalities themselves. Hence also such nice interviews, of course. Local democracy is not doing well. It didn't go well. There were big deficits, very large deficits. They're only increasing now. And yes, people, aldermen, councilmen, local officials: they don't get it explained to their residents. Dozens of billions are being spent here in The Hague, and they need to cut down locally, increase the burdens and reduce the services that people need to take care and support, scale down, cut down and eliminate. They can't do it anymore. If there's far too little money in the municipalities, you're gonna have to give more money. I've been trying to make a contribution. I have made an amendment for EUR 1 billion that used to seem a lot, but today it is a slap for the municipalities to meet the worst needs for next year. So if the Minister can't explain why billions are being spent here and municipalities have to cut down hard, then I assume she will at least support this amendment. Another subject is whistleblowers. I've spent many years working on the bill for whistleblowers and the House for Whistleblowers. At first I had a lot of opposition from the Ministry, but I really must say that since this minister is at the helm there, that has changed completely. I feel like whistleblowers are in good hands with this minister. Mr. Chairman. There's something else I have to say. When I fought for a bill for the protection of whistleblowers, the FNV caused me a great deal of trouble, which led a radical lobby against my law. Once the House for Whistleblowers was there, the FNV, through backdoors and so on, did a very bad job. Now I notice that if a ministry wants to take measures to protect whistleblowers to enhance its own integrity, the FNV is active everywhere in the corridors to thwart that. I'd just like to put that out in the open here. I'd like to warn the Minister. I would also like to ask for the support of this Chamber. A ministry that's had incredible integrity problems lately is Security and Justice. I understand they're trying to learn lessons there. They also try to start a pilot project for a special confidential whistleblowers. Is it true that this project, supported by the Ministry, threatens to be thwarted by people from the FNV?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u161	Yes, Mrs. Marijnissen was a member of the FNV, wasn't she? Anyway, that's not my question. Do I understand that someone from the SP, the Socialist Party, is now asking for support from the minister, which used to be called big business or something, in a fight against the union? I'm gonna get it less and less right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u162	No, I'm asking for the support of the Chamber. I'm going to table a motion tomorrow to ensure that this pilot project for the protection of whistleblowers can proceed. Yes, I say it with pain in the heart, because I have the union here in my heart. The union is important, super important. That's why I'm so angry that they play such a strange role when it comes to whistleblowers. I'll try to find an explanation for that, too. I think it is that within the FNV it is thought that whistleblowers are people who have a labor dispute. That's not true. Whistleblowers are all about social abuses. Yeah, a lot of times you get into a fight with the boss, unfortunately. But that's exactly what I'm trying to prevent. I am therefore very much in favour of a pilot project of particular confidence in whistleblowers at one or more ministries. I would like to ask the House's support for this later. Mr. Chairman. We're going to talk about the elections this afternoon, about an emergency law, an emergency laws for the elections. Well, people who say laws can't be passed here quickly get wrong. I would also like to make a point here. We're gonna have to get people to the polling station. Then there will have to be polling stations. I pleaded for that four years ago. I always argue for that. There should be no less, but there should be more polling stations. I have the impression that the Minister agrees with me, but leaves that to the local authorities. I do not think it is right that we should leave the organisation of our national elections to the municipalities, where some municipalities will, of course, do their utmost, but other municipalities may think: yes, we have to make so many cuts from the government, so let us cut back on a few polling stations. So I'm asking the Minister to take the lead. It is responsible for the elections and it must take charge of them. It must ensure that there are not fewer polling stations, but more polling stations. All the way to the end. In times of corona, all council members should be able to participate in meetings. There have been cases, for example in Boxmeer, of council members who, because of their health, do not want/can't participate physically, while the mayor and a majority of the city council do not want to allow digital participation in meetings, which hinder them. In fact, they make working impossible for a group of elected council members. I've asked questions about that. The minister says this is a matter of local autonomy, a matter for the municipality itself. No. Here too, I believe that the Chamber and the Minister should ensure that all council members can participate in the meeting and the votes. People with vulnerable health should not be excluded. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u163	Thank you. Mr Middendorp has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u164	A brief question on Mr Van Raak's point about the need for more polling stations. Is it not a good idea to see what the Minister can do to clarify the location of the polling stations? For example, there are digital solutions for this. How does Mr Van Raak view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u165	People will be very reluctant, I'm afraid, to go on the streets at all and people with poor health at all. We will have to ensure that everyone can vote. That can be done by having a lot of polling stations, a lot. What I see in congregations, I find really uncomfortable. I see in municipalities that they are looking at the expected turnout. In the one neighborhood where a high turnout is expected, they put down a lot of polling stations. In the other neighborhood where low turnout is expected, they put down fewer polling stations. No, it's the other way around. If the expected turnout is low, you need to offer more opportunities. Then the voting should be organized more closely. Make it public. Put it in tents. Do it on the street. Make sure you visit people to make sure they can vote. In any case, do everything in your power to ensure that people can vote. I welcome the fact that municipalities are taking initiatives to this end. The SP and the Christian Union have taken initiatives in some municipalities. There they say: hop in a tent, hop in the street, hop in the street, make sure people can vote. But there can't be a very big difference. It should not be the case that you can vote in front of the door in one municipality and have to go to another neighborhood or another neighborhood in the other municipality. That's what the Ministry's got to be directing. Everywhere in the Netherlands this must be done in an equivalent way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u166	We fully agree that as many people as possible should be able to vote. A large part of Mr Van Raak's ideas seem to me to be very good. I would ask you, Mr President, and through Mr Van Raak, for the attention of the Minister. There are very good ways to make digital insight into where the polling stations are and how they get there. That is not always clear and easy. That can also be directed to use Mr Van Raak's words. The Minister can do something about that. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u167	Sure. There may also be people who aren't digitally superskilled. There are people who aren't on our iPhone all day like us. I like that people only have to walk a little bit to get to the polling station.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u168	The point is that smart technology can do even more than Mr Van Raak proposes. It seems to me right that the Minister should look at that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u169	A smart government can do so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u170	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the next speaker, Mr Sneller, I would like to suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u171	I give the floor to Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last year we had such a good time with two spokesmen that we are doing it again this year. Mr Bosma says: the more D66s in the Lower House, the better. I say to him: all the questions he would normally ask Mr Verhoeven are now for Mr Paternotte. For the rest, you can go to my office. Mr. Chairman. What an appropriate day for this budget debate. I am not referring here to the ten-year anniversary of the Prime Minister, although setting up a philosophical tree in this budget on the concept of term limits or the maximum term of office for Heads of Government would, of course, be very interesting, because in some countries there are deadlines. But, Mr President, I am referring to the fact that Mr Bosma also recalled that today, exactly 54 years ago, 44 people were worried about the serious devaluation of our democracy, the political association Democrats 66 was founded. Last weekend, Secretary of State Vijlbrief shared in a nice interview the next lesson he had learned from one of his inspirators. "Economic reforms are a kind of stew. You put it on the stove for a long time, sometimes years. And at some point, politics is ready." That, Mr President, also applies, of course, to state-law innovations, only then they will be decades. And ask the members of state committees, national conventions or the Civil Society Forum. And yes, Mr President, democratization sometimes goes two steps forward and one step back. Only some people like to hang out in that past, but personally I prefer to use that past to learn from, to look forward and to work on plans to make that progress. Fortunately, that also seems to be the Minister's mentality. In spite of the involuntary period of rest, only one person from the cabinet did more plenary debates during this cabinet period, and only two directors appeared more frequently in the Chamber. And since her return, she has sent 18 bills to the Chamber. There is therefore an ambitious agenda for strengthening and renewing democracy. Some of them have already been sent to the First Chamber, and another part is still here or is yet to come. Let me mention a few other parts of that agenda. First of all, there is the greatest change in the electoral system over the last 100 years. As a result, the link between voters and elected representatives can be strengthened and voters will have more influence on the composition of the House of Representatives. Voters will soon be able to vote on a party or an individual candidate. And the more people do the latter, the more MPs will have a stronger mandate of their own. The Ministry's legislative machine is running at full speed. We heard the wish list just now also insert into the other. But when can we expect this bill, I ask the Minister. In addition, the Minister announced a law on political parties by the end of this year. This should include independent monitoring of the funding of political parties and the regulation of online campaigns. My group looks forward to this law as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u173	You may ask a short question, Mr. Bosma. I noticed you're very active this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u174	Yeah, I was really excited today, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u175	I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u176	Mr Sneller mentioned two legislative proposals, which he considered to be very important and fundamental, but we have never seen them. Now we've been waiting 54 years for D66 results in the field of state law, but we've never been able to find that. Things are going to be announced, though. We'd get the right to challenge, too. Mr Sneller mentions two. The minister here does run to the newspaper to say that democracy is being carefully renewed. Everything is announced, but in the inbox of members of the House of Representatives we find nothing. Surely it is a bit of an affront from the minister, and certainly from a minister of D66, the party of state-law honesty and cleanliness, that we as the House of Representatives get nothing at all? What's going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u177	I am pleased that we have clarified this, because I completely missed the input of the PVV Group in the legislative proposals that are indeed announced in it. The PVV has not contributed to any of these legislative proposals, concerning the amendment of the Constitution, for example the second reading at a united meeting, or the return right for the First Chamber. So the participation of the PVV in this kind of legislative proposal has been clarified. Maybe it's his own laziness or metal fatigue. I don't know what it is. When we discussed three constitutional changes with this minister at the beginning of this period, in September, in the Old Hall, Mr Bosma was not there either, while his own party leader and group chairman says: if you want to represent your constituents well, you must always be there. I think that Mr Bosma can at least take up the harsh criticism of his group chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u178	The question is why there is nothing coming from this minister on the points mentioned by Mr Sneller. That's my question. Why have we never seen anything about the right to challenge, the funding of political parties, or the fact that we as voters are allowed to influence the great fundamental issue of people on a list of political parties? D66 is 54 years old today. It has on democratic or otherwise. We've got nothing on state law, nothing at all. This minister's been there for four years. She's in injury time now, and we still haven't had all those laws that are so fundamental. Why didn't we deal with them when it came to destroying the referendum? Well, Mrs. Ollongren had all arranged that two weeks after her swearing-in, so to speak. In order to harm democracy, D66 is moving forward, but when it comes to making something of our democracy, the proposals of this D66 minister are not coming forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u179	I have just mentioned them all and Mr Bosma has simply passed them over or even voted against them in some cases, without being present at the debate. Mr Bosma was aware of the contents of Minister Pechtold's "Citizen Forum Election" at the time. I just asked the Minister when we can see that bill, so that we can deal with it and at least elect the Chamber after us and people have their own mandate, rather than being elected on the slips of their list-taker, just like Mr Bosma and I.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u180	Mr Sneller just mentioned the law on political parties and the online campaign section that comes to the Chamber. My impression is that this will not be completed before the elections. I have just outlined, in the interrupting debate with Mr Paternotte, what proposals the VVD has made to ensure that the next elections are conducted properly online. Does Mr Sneller agree with me that we should see whether we should do something about online campaigns before the elections so that we are ready for the elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u181	Should we do what? Yes, please. I would like to look forward to the viable proposals of the VVD spokesperson. For example, the proposals he made in the motion he tabled with Mr Asscher need to be transposed into legislation. I just had that debate with Mr Middendorp, and I am going to ask the Secretary of State, who is responsible for the state service: does he see that there are very few legal lawyers who have to put these laws together, especially at a time when the corona crisis calls for emergency laws, such as the emergency law for the elections we are discussing this afternoon? Think also of the laws for decentralised decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u182	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u183	My question was about what we should arrange for those online campaigns, for example proposals for political advertising libraries, so that we have an archive of them on 18 March. If Mr Sneller says that we do indeed have to deal with this quickly, it may well be that we should do so before the Political Parties Act, otherwise we will not be ready on 17 March, so before the 18th.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u184	For example, there are more proposals that I would have liked to have dealt with and which we have not yet settled, which I regret. Mr Middendorp cannot see that as a surprise, because that has been the planning all along.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u185	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u186	Well, not mine. With regard to those other proposals which Mr Sneller regrets are not settled: okay. In any case, I note that we agree that we should see if we can arrange for small parts that we all consider important as Chambers, such as online campaigns for the elections, by 17 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u187	For example, the independent supervision of the Finance Act political parties. At the time there was an amendment, where the VVD voted against. Otherwise, we could have dealt with it by now, and it would have always been.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u188	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u189	But I fully agree with Mr Middendorp: let us look at what can be done. That is a mentality that appeals to me very much. Thirdly, a proposal is pending before the Court to deal with the second reading of constitutional changes in future at a unified meeting. Thus we highlight its special status, but also increase the weight of the directly elected Second Chamber in constitutional changes. The Senate should also be given the right to return legislative proposals with comments to the House of Representatives, after which we will have the last word. In this way, the Chamber of Reflection will have the opportunity to better fulfil its role, without state-law sloppy novelles or other tricks. But, Mr President, not only has this executive been busy. Thanks to Mr Van Raak, there is also a proposal for a remedially binding referendum in the Senate and recently D66, together with GroenLinks, presented the proposal to hold hearings with candidate directors from the next cabinet formation. The spokesperson's running away from it. If it is up to D66, at the same time as the newly elected Chamber, an experiment with the right of citizen amendment will also start, so that people are involved and able to exercise influence during the legislative process. Unfortunately, a number of weeks ago, the proposal remained at 70 seats and the PVV voted against incomprehensible reasons, even after Mr Bosma's explanatory statement. I hope she gets a second chance soon. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the corona crisis took a heavy toll on the time of policy officials and law lawyers of the Ministry of the Interior. For example, within a short period of time there was a law to allow for electronic meetings at local level, the emergency context of the emergency regulations had to be replaced and the rules for elections should be corona-proofed. As spokesman for Finance, I fully understand that politics is also the distribution of scarcity, but you will understand that I would have liked to have seen all this capacity freely available for this longer-term agenda of democratisation. But it was urgent and necessary for those corona laws to come. And then the question I have already announced to the Secretary of State, but also to the Minister: how has the number of legal lawyers been doing in recent times? Is it the first time this has been so avenged or is this a longer trend? Mr. Chairman. Last year, in this budget debate, I called for a stress test of our state law to be carried out to see whether the democratic institutions and rules of the game were resilient and resilient enough. The Secretary of State at the time, This spring was no test, no exercise, but revealed defects and gave insight into the reflexes. For example, in the first few months I have been surprised at the lack of noise in relation to the emergency regulations. Important decisions are still taken in this way: by regional mayors in a security council without formal status, without minutes, without disclosure of votes or positions, without adequate democratic legitimacy or control. And then many courts and courts were closed, which made it difficult for citizens to achieve their rights. It is precisely when we renew and deepen democracy that we must not forget the basics. That is why I am asking the Minister about the stress test of our democratic rule of law. In this context, I would also like to ask what progress has been made with the investigation into the codification of the confidence rule, that unwritten basic principle of our parliamentary democracy. Mr. Chairman. In the first phase of the "coronocracy," the Chamber did not always show itself on its best side. We switched that earlier on the estimate. There was a very rigorous scale. The interpretation of our Rules of Procedure was not clear and the digital facilities were not entirely in order. I therefore think it would be wise, as a Chamber, to carry out such an evaluation and, if necessary, to make adjustments or investments in order to increase our resilience to crises. Mr Van Gent referred to this in the debate on the new Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u190	As chairman, I can't say anything about that. I find that complicated. I thought I had discussed this with you at the Estimation. I'd like to come back to that some other time. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u191	Maybe I can say something about that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u192	Yeah, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u193	You will also have that opportunity in the debate on the Rules of Procedure, where Mr Van Gent, as I said, has also asked this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u194	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u195	But at that point I am not allowed to say anything, because then I will listen to colleague Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u196	Then I'm gonna say something back and then you can't say anything back. That's gonna be a nice debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u197	Sure, then we're even again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u198	In that debate, too, the CDA said that we must, of course, learn lessons from what choices we have made here, but above all that we should know by default what our arsenal of possibilities is with how we organise this house. But I heard Mr Sneller say that we have been very drastic here. I'd like to ask you about that. That's a decision we made in this house...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u199	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u200	... also from the realization that sometimes we should be a little more strict here to set an example. I would nevertheless like to invite Mr Sneller to clarify that point, because I think it was wise to do so and that this was done with the agreement of D66. I suspect that Mr Sneller did not mean it like that, but I would like to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u201	That's part of what I meant. A decision was taken by the Bureau at the time, including what committees are allowed to do. In the course of the debate on the estimates, I have also raised the question of whether this is a matter for the Bureau and whether we, as individual Members of Parliament, have had sufficient opportunity to object to it. You can see that this time we're dealing very differently with that scaling back. We are now putting on much more committee work than we did in March. For some, that was quite understandable at the time, but we had to learn from it, as the CDA spokesperson says, how we will deal with it next time. I asked Mr Omtzigt, together with your colleague, Mr Van der Molen, at the very first meeting of the Finance Committee, how we could make it easier for hearings to be held digitally, for example. That seemed quite impossible at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u202	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u203	Mr. Chairman. That lack of resilience to crises also affected our Constitution. At the beginning of the corona crisis, the First Chamber therefore asked for information from the Council of State. The main question was: what does the Constitution say about the possibilities of creating a virtual quorum or even meeting or deciding digitally without having to resort to state emergency law? The answer came with some technical reservations, but was clearly a 'yes, that can'. After that, however, there were other noises from state-law circles, while this kind of crisis situation should not lead to any ambiguity. That is why I ask the Minister to take the initiative with the States-General in order to clarify the Constitution on this point. Mr. Chairman. Another topic that the Council of State has devoted a great deal of attention to this year was their unsolicited advice on ministerial responsibility. Where does the responsibility of a ruler begin and end? The starting point is: no responsibility without authority. But as Marc Chavannes strikingly wrote, power is often lost in the Netherlands. Powers have been delegated or placed at a distance to municipalities or the European Union, a supervisor or an independent administrative body, once without a doubt for good reason, but very few still remember what that was about. And even fewer directors or MPs explain those choices, slowly watering down the legitimacy. And then that room, huh, and the fuss of the day. The Minister has to do something. To get rid of it, the ruler makes a promise. The result is often predictable. Disappointment and extra tension instead of a satisfactory solution or closing a democratic gap. The govern ment has no powers at all to deliver on the commitments. And system responsibility is not putty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u204	An interesting analysis of the fact that no one is responsible anymore and why. I know that a little bit. That is because these responsibilities have been liberalised, privatised, tendered and outsourced. It's 25 years of market thinking, 25 years of neoliberalism. This means that all these responsibilities have been removed from the hands of democracy, from the hands of politics and have been transferred to companies, managers, consultants, hybrid organisations, regulators or whatever. I myself have had to fight for almost 20 years against D66, who constantly wanted to liberalise, privatise, tender and outsource. So could Mr Sneller himself give an answer to that question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u205	I think Mr Van Raak is confusing a number of things. He says it's all been privatised, and then he says that that power lies with regulators who are 100% public. So I think Mr Van Raak's analysis should go a little deeper, so that we can have a serious debate on this. Mr Van Raak's problem is too narrow, so you miss the point for the solution. How exactly we do that with these supervisors is, in my view, the question. One of my proposals is that last year I also said that we should hear them more often, because it is very important how such a supervisor, whether it is the Consumer and Market Authority or the Personal Data Authority, sees for itself that supervision is being completed. For example, the Chamber could be given a greater role in the appointment, so that we can talk in the democratic debate about how these roles of supervisors are fulfilled. That was one of my suggestions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u206	What Mr Sneller is doing now is a bit of a silly old trick. A serious discussion begins with the fact that you also listen to each other...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u207	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u208	...and let each other finish. You shouldn't take out one element and respond to it. That's a bit of a Pechtold trick, and I thought D66 outgrown those kind of tricks a little bit. I'm concerned about those responsibilities. You can set something up through the market, through the government, through democracy or through a corporation, I don't know. The problem is, of course, that all this has been mixed up over the past 25 years, that market elements have been added, that supervisory elements have been added, that all this has become very hybrid, and that is why it is no longer clear who is responsible for what. I didn't. I always warned against that, and then D66s always called me conservative and nationalistic and I know a lot about it, because it all had to be flexible, and it all had to be market-functioning and it all had to be hip and tough. So I would also ask Mr Sneller to reflect on that himself. I can give you a solution: do what is public, leave to the market what is in the market, and if something should not go bankrupt, it should not be on the market, so in the domain of politics. That seems very simple to me. Does Mr Sneller agree with that, or can he himself reflect on these questions, because his party has helped to get us into these problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u209	Mr Van Raak talks about 'to the market', 'buying' and that sort of thing. The whole other domain, namely what this is really about and what the State Committee-Remkes also focuses its observations on, is: what are you doing in that public domain? And I think that's the difference we're looking at here. I would also like to zoom in on what we organise within that public domain, and whether it matters whether the minister is responsible or not. And I think that some privatisations have been very good. Mr Van Raak also had the opportunity last week to discuss this with the Prime Minister in the General Affairs budget. If Mr Van Raak got his way, and everything would go back to the government and we wouldn't do anything about those other points, he would still not be satisfied and would be right. And that is precisely why I want to have this discussion, so that, if Mr Van Raak ever gets his way or his successors in this Chamber, then it does not turn up the problem of: we actually have the state too messy, or in any case no longer defendable because this kind of separation of functions is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u210	Finally, Mr. Van Raak. And then we should really go a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u211	I agree with that. But I request permission, Mr. Chairman. For years I have also dealt with Laurens Jan Brinkhorst, with all kinds of hard market thinkers, who wanted to liberalise everything, to self-destruct everything, to bring everything to the market. And if there were problems, then there had to be even more market, and then there had to be even more liberalisation and independence. This is all from D66, the backbone of neoliberalism over the past 25 years. So if Mr Sneller says, "Yes, that's not true; problems have arisen, how is that possible?" I ask him not only to ask the Minister, but also whether D66 himself has reflected on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u212	A brief response, Mr. Faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u213	Well, none of the examples I have mentioned are about anything related to privatisation, so I think that what Mr Van Raak is asking is just a bit beside this discussion. By the way, I believe that there are still State participations that we should privatise, and I regret that they do not. However, let us, above all, continue this discussion of order, I say to Mr Van Raak. What does this ministerial responsibility mean if someone takes responsibility without authority? This development is worrying, because "Ministerial responsibility," the Minister writes in her response to the opinion, "is the core of the Dutch state system: it is the constitutional foundation for the implementation of the principle of democratic control of public administration." And breaking that dynamic, which leads to erosion of this foundation, is the responsibility of all involved, every day, and on some days even more than on others. For this purpose, the cabinet intends to conduct a broad dialogue with civil servants and parliament. I'm always available for that, but I think we can do more already. We will also come back to the opinion of the Council of State in greater detail, where we can hopefully continue this debate, as I say to Mr Van Raak. But I would like to make one thing clear: the cabinet wants to experiment with more factual information and explanations by officials. Following on from the Remkes State Commission, she finds the practice of the ukaze-Kok, the rules for contacts between MPs and civil servants, unjustly oppressive. So my proposal is to say goodbye to that ukaze and publish new clues, so that we can all start that experiment with a more relaxed heart. Last week, the Prime Minister missed the opportunity to write the more generous version in his name; he gave that credit to the Minister of the Interior. My question is: does she seize that opportunity, and is she prepared to give this interplay a fresh start? Mr. Chairman. Speaking of responsibilities without powers, the financial relations between the Empire and the municipalities are also in need of a fresh start. In recent months good steps have been taken to deal with the first blows of the corona crisis. As a number of municipal networks write in their resolution "Honourable financial relations!" The State has compensated for the additional expenditure and reduced revenue of municipalities and has made good arrangements for the result. Also the freezing of the acres and the scaling-up discount for two years give some rest and some air, but the reich's dependence keeps the relationship with municipalities structurally out of balance. This has to be done differently, including through a larger municipal tax area. This is not only good for a better balance between levels of government, but also good for a better balance in the local debate on income and expenditure. It is also good for local democracy, because it will give more attention to the accountability of the municipal administration to residents and businesses, rather than to accountability to other levels of government, with money flowing over the heads of the population. Mr. Chairman. For the party political side, it must of course come from the draft electoral programmes. I look forward with particular interest to the amendments tabled by the mayors, aldermen and councilmen who have sent us their cry of hearts over the last few weeks. But also at a national level, there is an official preparation for the formation. For example, this week we received the opinion of the Study Group on Budget Space. Previously, we already had the Broad social rethinks. Earlier this month we received a list of redirections and intensifications from the Ministry of Finance. But would it not be a good thing, I would ask the Minister, when preparing for the next formation, to get closer to municipalities, for example, by looking at this list together and saying what is real and what is not real? Would it not also be appropriate to agree and prepare shared policy options for structurally stable revenues for the implementation of the Municipal Fund? Because the saying is not for nothing: if you are not sitting at the table, then you are on the menu. That adage also applies to the interpretation of Article 2 of the Financial Ratio Act. In short, it says: no tasks for municipalities without sufficient budget. I have already asked the Minister of Finance in the spring note how we can give them a firmer place in our own budgetary rules, but I would also like to make a suggestion myself pending a response. I heard Mrs Özütok doing the same. In recent years, there has been a great deal of uncertainty and displeasure about decentralisation with too little budget, or about additional tasks at all without a budget, with all the administrative unrest and wasted energy. Would it not therefore be appropriate to agree on a kind of standard arbitration procedure in order to arrive at a common picture of a real budget before a law enters into force or before a task is assigned? For example, by such a trusted mutual referee. Think, for example, of the Central Planning Bureau. But you can also agree on a fixed procedure, whereby the VNG, or the municipalities with another representative, and the Empire both appoint an expert and jointly appoint a third expert. This at least gives you clarity in advance and not always noise afterwards. Is the Minister prepared to take this idea up and work it out?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u214	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66. I can tell you that I will be very strict with the interruptions, because things are getting a little out of hand. We also have a corona debate. You're all in agreement. Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me take this opportunity to congratulate you warmly on both your birthday and your honorary doctorate. The second is of course absolutely beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u216	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u217	Thank you for allowing me here as Mr Sneller's wingman to make my debut in the Home Affairs budget. The second part of our input will be eclectic and myriad, because I am going to talk about the security of our elections, intelligence and foreign interference, cross-border cooperation and discrimination and racism. I will try to build a logical bridge between every subject, Mr. Chairman. First of all, safe elections, because that also means free from foreign interference and undermining. That is far from self-evident, because virtually no free democratic election has been protected from undermining in recent years. The disinformation in the Brexit campaign and the Russian interference in Donald Trump's favor have changed free elections forever, and also successfully helped the Western world to make two dramatic decisions. Social media enhances the sound of fake news. The Economist took the trouble to clone Donald Trump's Twitter account to see what he's getting on his timeline. What turned out was that Donald Trump gets twice as many fake news on his timeline as the average user. That's not because of the people he's following, but based on his own tweets, what kind of information probably interests him most. And then we're talking about the second most powerful person in the world. A difference this year is that there are a little more but too few measures taken by social media companies to counter disinformation. In the last week before the presidential election, Facebook will not allow any new campaigns. Twitter requires an extra click for retweets of political messages. Maybe it helps, but as far as D66 is concerned, it's high time we started protecting our democracy ourselves by making sure that non-personalized ads become the standard for everyone to see ads on a website, based on the content of the website and not on the visitor. Algorithms must be transparent in what information is presented. And let's just like Germany opt for an approach that ensures that social media companies remove fake news much faster. I'd like a response from the Minister. There is another difference, and that is that we are already seeing this undermining and not only in reports after the election day. William Evanina, the head of the US Counterintelligence Centre, announced that China, Russia and Iran are in the process of influencing the presidential elections, and the United Kingdom did so already after a large-scale cyberattack campaign on companies and knowledge institutions. That these countries are helping to make this public, because it makes media companies, candidates and voters more alert. For example, such transparency could have made us more alert and could contribute to preventing Alexander Malkevich, a Russian propagandist who had been expelled from the United States, from attending the MH17 process on 9 March. That alertness is needed at this time. The AIVD called the Netherlands an interesting espionage target in recent years. Chinese economic espionage focuses on our high-quality tech industry. Iranian dissidents have been wound up in the Netherlands. The MH17 process makes the Netherlands extra relevant for a very specific country, namely Russia. So I would like to ask the Minister if she sees a chance here with us to achieve more with transparency. If we put the spotlights on foreign interference, it could help to alert people. Of course, the tradition of counterintelligence is to keep it in the same nebula as the espionage it is aimed at, but look at the moment that STIVD broke with this tradition and publicly evicted four Russian officers after the Russian hacking attempt at the OPCW. Sunshine is the best disinfecting, they say in the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u218	Was this it about the subject of espionage?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u219	No, but I thought otherwise Mr Middendorp would be standing there all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u220	But maybe it's a good thing you finish that first and then Mr. Middendorp gets the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u221	That's good. D66 therefore wants intelligence and security services to make attacks more public from abroad. This discourages foreign actors and enables companies to better prepare for threats. The boss of STIVD, general Swillens, repeated this week that despite years of warnings for cyber espionage, the Netherlands underestimates the risks. He also says he wants to make foreign interference known more often, as after the OPCW hack. Hopefully the urgency for good cyber security will get through. Can the Minister work on this and ensure that voters can see it when a political party in the Netherlands is financed by a foreign power or is otherwise influenced?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u222	A short question, Mr Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u223	Let me turn to Mr Paternotte's fake new proposals. Does he agree with me that that is actually too much focused on just fake news and social media companies and many more things happen when it comes to protecting our elections from cyberhacks etc.?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u224	I just mentioned the example of the hack attempt that was thwarted. We know that they are indeed often aimed at the integrity of elections. I specifically mentioned this example because fake news is so often used as an instrument to influence, as that is the lesson of the Brexit campaign and that is the lesson of the elections in America in 2016. I am very pleased that the VVD in the European Parliament is helping to tackle disinformation, but I also hope that together we can agree that we will have to impose a duty of care on those tech companies because this is too slow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u225	Yeah, but it's much wider than fake news. I meant that his proposals were mainly about fake news. Does Mr Paternotte agree with me that we should do so before our next elections? 'Cause that's how important it is. Secondly, does Mr Paternotte actually think that we should settle this in Europe or that we should take action on this ourselves in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u226	I think that the most effective approach is a European one, but in the end it cannot be left to Europe to decide. We must also protect our own elections. We have a responsibility of our own. I think it is very good that the VVD's proposal will indeed continue to be able to strengthen EUvsDisinfo, because it provides a framework that will make our work a lot easier, but ultimately we will have to decide for ourselves, as Germany does, what we ask tech companies to disseminate information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u227	Finally, Mr. Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u228	All I can see is that Mr Paternotte is always talking about the EUvsDisinfo office, which is absolutely not the solution to the digital security of our forthcoming elections. I also note that I do not really hear an answer about the time limit...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u229	And I note that you have a second term, in which you can also see what you think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u230	I said it a little more neatly, because Mr. Paternotte started with me about a weak answer. But I note that I will do so in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u231	Proceed, Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u232	We all look forward to that. I will now move on to another subject. It's good to report that there's a secretary of state here, too. I think that it has received too little attention so far, so let me talk about cross-border cooperation. I was just talking about countries that undermine our democracy, but we also have friends across the border, for example Germany and Belgium. But the southern neighbors literally threw up a blockade this spring. The Belgians had a total, complete lockdown, and we were very modest and called it an "intelligent lockdown." At the beginning of May you could find sea containers, concrete blocks, drive gates and sand hills at the border crossing points of Zeeuws-Vlaanderen to stop Dutch people. Families were separated and people could sometimes come to work alone with a pass and by climbing over those concrete blocks. The border regions cannot have such a blockade again, but the contrast in the control of the virus between Germany and the Netherlands is very strong, and not to our advantage. The Secretary of State is talking about our cross-border cooperation, so my question is: has he made agreements to prevent a repetition of the situation in spring? If measures are scaled up, will it prevent the hairdressers from being open in Germany and the hairdressers from being closed in the Netherlands? Are there any other imperfections that have averse effects across the border? Has he consulted on the fact that North Rhine-Westphalia had temporarily imposed a reporting obligation on Dutch people crossing the border? Is there any chance that such a reporting obligation will come back? Mr. Chairman. This is also an opportunity, a moment, to work more together across borders, for example on energy. Because there's a lot of energy being lost on the other side of the border. Windmills just across the border in Germany sometimes stand still because the grid is overloaded, while we can use that energy very well. The Energy Directive states that energy communities should be given space to share energy with their inhabitants. Only they can't plug in across the border right now. Is the Secretary of State prepared to give border municipalities this space and allow it so that wind and solar parks can be shared with Germans and Belgians? Finally, Mr President. This year, the Netherlands will stop blasting fireworks. In corona time it is wise not to stick on a bunch of single-shot tubes and strings, so that's convenient. But in Germany you can still get this kind of fireworks, so the risk of a lively trade is high. Have any agreements been made to limit the import of fireworks? Mr. Chairman. I'm going to talk about discrimination now. On 1 July, the Chamber held a debate... That's definitely not a pretty little bridge, but I couldn't think of one. If anyone has another suggestion, I'm very open to it. Unfortunately, Mr Bosma is still sitting. On 1 July, the Chamber held a debate, on the day off 147 years after the end of slavery in Suriname. There are now fewer demonstrations by Black Lives Matter than when we had that debate, but let's make sure that the focus doesn't depend on demonstrations. Almost everyone said on 1 July: we want to tackle systemic racism. And luckily, because the Dutch promise is that your origin doesn't determine your future. That's more important than ever in this corona crisis. Because if the economy gets worse, it affects first of all the people who work on temporary contracts, who work at small family businesses or who just have a job. 1 July has produced a lot of concrete statements in the Chamber, such as the one on a national coordinator on racism and discrimination. That was a proposal from among others D66, DENK and the VVD. I refer to motions by Mr Segers, Mr Jetten and Mr Azarkan. I refer to the state committee against racism and discrimination proposed by Louis Asscher and Pieter Heerma. Many concrete measures have also been adopted, among others, by Mr Marijnissen and Mr Klaver, such as a ban on discrimination in quality requirements in temporary employment agencies and a requirement to report racist or discriminatory requests on the labour market or housing market. My question is: when can we expect the law on the obligation of notification of discrimination? And when can we expect the law of the Secretary of State for Social Affairs to tackle labour discrimination? We've been waiting for that for a while. Mr. Chairman. Then there was the proposal of my party and GroenLinks to designate 2023 as a year of commemoration for the abolition of slavery in Suriname. They are all good proposals that can all help to tackle discrimination and make us aware of racism. So that's why I'm telling you to move fast. I say that also because we have to show that tackling racism is not a fashion phenomenon. Mr. Chairman. I would like to add one more thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u233	I see that Mr Öztürk is at the interrupting microphone. Maybe you could finish it first?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u234	I'll be at it for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u235	Then I'll go to the Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u236	It is very good to hear that D66 is really working on tackling discrimination and racism and that he also mentions it here on the spot. This week we have had an amendment and a number of motions on the ban on burqa. Now people on public transport can choose to travel with a burqa or with a mouth cap. I shall also have questions to the Minister about this in a moment. Would you be allowed to vote in an election booth with a burqa or a mouth cap? Why isn't D66 coming? GroenLinks is already with me. That was the step taken yesterday during the votes. Can we get D66, while they are taking that step to tackle discrimination and racism, now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u237	D66 was against the burqa ban. We still do not see this as an extremely useful measure. I just don't know which proposals you're referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u238	Now that there is an obligation to wear a mask in public transport, we have indicated: can we give people the opportunity to travel on a burqa in public transport? That's not gonna get us D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u239	We were against that law. Only, if you want to get that law repealed again, you're gonna have to do it in a way with a majority of the House. A majority of this House is in favour of a burka ban. So yes, that must also be maintained. That is also a democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u240	That's shoving off on others. I'm talking about D66's responsibility. We got GroenLinks yesterday. Then why doesn't D66 dare to go now? Is that because they're in the coalition? Is that because they don't have the guts to speak out for that target group now? That's my point: we have to get rid of that. Why doesn't D66 dare come?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u241	I don't understand it so well. D66 was not in favour of the burka ban in public transport and in public buildings. That's not what we were for. We voted against it in the Second Chamber and in the First Chamber. It's come after all. Yes, then it must be maintained. I'm not sure what else you want with that. Are you saying we shouldn't enforce the law? That's not what my party wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u242	One last try!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u243	One last attempt, Mr. Chairman. If D66 intends to tackle discrimination and racism, if D66 intends to give these ladies the freedom to be who they want to be, to express their faith, then I have the following question. There will be a proposal in this Chamber that you can vote for. Then you have every freedom to say: well, these ladies could travel with their burqa in public transport. That's the question. And then you vote against it and then you shift it to other parties. I think that's weak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u244	We think you should enforce the law. But let's be honest. We were not in favour of the ban on burqas because we do not think that this is a useful measure and that such a ban does not help. But I also don't think that a woman wearing a burka is the highlight of emancipation in the Netherlands. I think we should do more to give someone who is in such a situation a chance to decide for themselves about their own life. I think that should also be an important objective of ours.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u245	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u246	I shall go back to the debate on 1 July, because during that debate Geert Wilders said that there is a hysterical discrimination virus and that racism is not a problem at all. In fact, it is mainly a problem that native Dutch people are disadvantaged and that they are afraid to say anything anymore. I know that that is total bullshit for that I only have to look at my own twit-time line, but I also want this to be no longer a debate but we are talking about facts. The problem is, we don't have enough vision right now. The Netherlands is world champion of statistics. We have a security monitor. We have a health monitor. We have top-level economic data. Only this does not apply to statistics on racism, anti-Semitism and discrimination. Of course we have reports and reports. We have a record number of anti-Semitism reports this year, for example. But we know from research that most people don't bother to report, or even don't know that that's possible. As a result, we do not know exactly where discrimination takes place and whether racism is a growing or a shrinking problem. We often see studies from universities with shocking findings. You're more likely to have a criminal record in interviews than you are with a foreign surname. A third of the brokers are willing to discriminate. But then Mr Wilders can still say: I don't see it, so it doesn't exist. And so, Mr President, we say: put the facts on the table, central, as well as for health and safety, for example by having the CBS publish them in a biannual monitor of discrimination, racism and anti-Semitism. Will the Minister, together with her colleague from EZK, who is talking about the CBS, discuss this with the Central Bureau of Statistics and see if this can ensure that racism and discrimination are in the middle of the table, with clear research?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u247	Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u248	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u249	A brief question, Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u250	Now Mr Paternotte himself ends up with fake news and falsely quotes my group leader. He did not say: I do not see racism, so it does not exist. In that debate, Mr Wilders simply referred to the nationwide network of discrimination provisions. Every town has one. This is covered by this minister and costs us EUR 6 million a year. There are all civil servants keeping tabs on racism reports. But there are very few reports of discrimination coming in. When they come in, it's mostly age discrimination. That is what Mr Wilders said. So in practice there is very little statistical basis for the racism claim and the racism hoax. I have another question, because it's about fake news. On 12 November, Mr Paternotte is here at Question Time with a whole story about a meeting of Kick Out Zwarte Piet that would have been disturbed. Mr Paternotte climbs rather high into the tree: fireworks would have been thrown at people and bats would have been invaded. Cars would have been beaten short and small. It was a whole story. I've just done a lot of research into what happened there in that squat where all that cartoon lives. The police report does not support anything Mr Paternotte says. I've been in touch with one of those guys' attorneys. It's not supported anywhere. Partymates of mine have been on the spot...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u251	Your question is, Mr. Bosma?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u252	No sign of anything with cars, fireworks or anything. The D.A. left that case behind. That's point one. I would like to mention more fake news from Mr Paternotte. Mr. Paternotte, on November 19th you have a story about the Hitler Greetings being brought to the stands of FC Den Bosch. It turns out that's not true either. I have a cup from Het Parool. It's just not true. So Mr Paternotte does come up with a whole story about fake news this and fake news that, but I find that the great spreader of fake news in the House of Representatives is Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u253	Let's get to the first point. Mr Bosma said that Mr Wilders did not say at all that discrimination does not exist. He said that it is not a problem at all, but that it is a much bigger problem that indigenous Dutch people themselves would be discriminated against. According to Mr Wilders, they would no longer dare to say what they think at all. He also said there's a hysterical discrimination virus. Then he comes up with an anti-discrimination provision, when we know from research that a lot of people don't even know that they can report or think that it doesn't help that they report there, and that people often don't dare to report or think they can. Meanwhile, in research from different universities, we see that you better have a criminal record in applications than a foreign surname. We see from research that one third of the brokers are willing to cooperate in discriminatory requests in Amsterdam. This is why I say: let's get the facts straight and make sure that we do that research and not just wait for people to report, but look at it at the centre: what is the situation with racism and discrimination? I would also like to comment on the other two points raised by Mr Bosma. That meeting of Kick Out Black Piet was interrupted. I think that Mr Bosma here also acknowledges that in recent years it was mainly people who were very much in favour of the colour of Piet, who were throwing cans, who were chanting racist slogans and using that violence. That meeting that was interrupted and the reports on it made it very clear to me that we must stand for freedom of expression in the Netherlands. As far as that whole picture is concerned, which you very much like to sketch, as if people want to change our traditions by force: that violence was used by people who stand up for their freedom of speech and who think that they are hurt by the racist caricature they find Black Piet. That is why we raised this at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u254	Please continue. No, Mr. Bosma. We really have to... very briefly and then we really have to move on, because we have a debate on corona at 3 p.m. and I would like us to start on time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u255	So Mr Paternotte admits that everything he brought up here in the wake of that incident in that squat, that everything he told in that place is simply not supported by the facts! So he indicates that he's just the cheerleader, the cheerleader, of Kick Out Black Piet, a racist and violent organization, and that he's just telling the rumors brought into the world by that club one-on-one here in the house of democracy. Things that aren't substantiated, like that Hitler greeting: it just turns out not to be true. I repeat, I repeat, the biggest spreader of fake news in the House of Representatives is Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u256	I really think it is a mistake for Mr Bosma to be here at this tone about discrimination and racism and to think that a PVV member would be present at that meeting of Kick Out Black Piet and that he would therefore know whether or not it was disturbed. I think we are constantly seeing that the meetings of that organization, demonstrations, are disturbed by racist slogans and violence. Meanwhile, Mr Bosma represents a party that... He was just talking about George Soros himself. He was expressing an anti-Semitic meme. His colleague De Roon denies that there is a problem with anti-Semitism and denies that there is an increase in incidents of it. Last week, Emiel van Dijk talked about overcrowding, a Nazi theorem that gives substance to the principle of lebensraum, which must be made space for the Germans in the east. Meanwhile, there is also Mr Markuszower, who says that all Jews in the Netherlands who do not vote for PVV or Forum, are causing their own demise. So if anyone has a problem with racism and discrimination... Then I'd say, Mr. Bosma, you're going to do something about anti-Semitism in your own party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u257	Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u258	I am accused of anti-Semitism here because I call Mr Soros. I think that's kind of weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u259	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u260	It's confirmed, too. I am simply basing myself on the fact that I have done so recently in another debate on the referendum on the house-to-house body of D66, NRC Handelsblad. On February 16, 2019, Soros's questionable role in our democracy, for example through Princess Mabel, who then meets and tries to influence democracy with foreign money... It's all just getting worked out! In Dutch museums we are no longer allowed to use the word 'hottentot' or 'eskimo', because that is apparently also discriminatory and racist, as everything is now discriminatory and racist. That's thanks to Mr. Soros. Mr Soros is just sitting with his big finger in Dutch democracy! NRC Handelsblad, the house-to-house organ of D66, writes about it himself! Are you going to say, Mr. Paternotte, that your own newspaper, NRC Handelsblad, is also an anti-Semitic magazine?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u261	It is only painful if Mr Bosma denies this when he denies that in Hungary images of Mr Soros are used with an enlarged nose, the summum of anti-Semitic caricatures. If you are constantly quoting Mr Soros and saying that he would be undermining, while the man is a philanthropist, supporting organisations that are contributing to democracy and the rule of law, then it is clear that the PVV, combined with Mr Markuszower's statements, is not taking this problem seriously and denying that there is a problem with anti-Semitism in America and that it is growing. That is why, for example, you are voting against anti-discrimination detectives, which CIDI is asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u262	Thank you. I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u263	So, Mr. Bosma, I'd mostly look at myself if I were you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u264	I would like to make a final comment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u265	About Mr. Soros: the CBS program 60 Minutes held an interview with Mr. Soros in which he tells what he thinks is the most beautiful period of his life. Do you know what that was? That was when he helped the Nazis loot Jews in Budapest. If you attack that man, then you're not an anti-Semite, but you're on the other side. Where's Mr. Soros the hardest? In Israel. Mr. Paternotte apparently sees Israel as an anti-Semitic country. Apparently, he sees the struggle against Mr. Soros that helped the Nazis as anti-Semitic. And apparently he also sees his own newspaper, NRC Handelsblad, as anti-Semitic. Mr President, yes... D66 is really completely but completely lost. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u266	Mr Bosma now claims that Mr Soros would have helped the Nazis at about the age of toddler. That all sums it up just fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u267	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Kuik, then to Mrs Van der Graaf, and then we shall suspend for lunch. I call Mrs Kuiken on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When it came to the term "eskimos," I was thinking about nose-nose. How we long for the time that we can do that again, without masks and nose caps! Mr. Chairman. That brings me on the bridge to the municipal finances, because corona... Yes, I can make a bridge! Mr Paternotte can do something about that. That brings me to the municipal finances. The cabinet has allocated extra money to meet the municipalities. Extra money has been allocated to youth care. At the same time, it is a one-off money and the problems are mainly structuralally unabated. Corona will also be hard hit, because when, for example, more people need to use the assistance, the assistance budgets will be charged extra. My appeal to the cabinet is and remains: continue to invest structural money as well. If we want to prevent the pools, the libraries, the facilities and everything that makes a municipality fall down, that is really essential. Mr. Chairman. The second point concerns accessibility. We see, for example, in these corona times, that accessibility, understandable communication, is a really big problem. This applies to government websites. That goes for communication. This applies to accessible polling stations. These are all things that are under pressure right now. I hope that the cabinet can see that and that the cabinet can see that we still have a long way to go here. It is incredibly important that things are getting better, because it is still not sufficiently regulated. I'd like a response from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. We are also going to talk about the elections this afternoon when we deal with the legislative proposal. As you have read, the Labour Party is in favour of at least spreading elections so that we can avoid crowds and promote turnout. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then the point of disinformation. I am critical of that, even when I read the Minister's last letter. There's very little concrete in that. Even party mate Kees Verhoeven agrees on Twitter that little has happened in recent years. He'll make a proposal. We are now four years away and the elections are at hand. There's been a hacking. Accountants are down. There is evidence of disinformation and influence from abroad. Something has been announced by the Minister with a lot of aplomb, but not much has actually happened. My question is very simple: why not? I know the Minister thinks this is very important. What have been the obstacles to actually taking steps at this point? I see all kinds of announcements, but nothing has actually happened, we have to be sad. Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, I have two more questions to ask the Secretary of State or the Minister. At least it affects our kingdom, the BES. It's about the Papiaments. In fact, this question is for the Minister, because she said: we have the Limburgs, we have the Frisian, but we do not think Papiaments is important. We know that Papiaments is extremely important both in terms of culture and language. Why was this distinction chosen? I call on the Minister not to do so. Finally. I have also been referred to the Minister for this, but I am also doing it indirectly through the Secretary of State. I hope that the pilot with the mortgage guarantee for the BES islands will start soon. This is very important for reducing the burden on the BES islands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u269	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u270	Thank you, Madam President. Congratulations on your birthday, too, for my part. I and my group are pleased that the Minister for the Interior himself is once again able to participate in the budgetary treatment of her department. We are pleased to hear that. Mr. Chairman. This last budget for the Interior of this cabinet period raises the question of what kind of government the citizens have met in the past period. Was the rule or man central in the contact with the municipality, the Tax Administration and the execution organisation? I think that the surcharge affair, but perhaps also the reinforcements in Groningen, shows that in the forest of rules and boards we have created, sometimes a flashlight is to be searched for the human dimension. Imagine: you have problems with the Tax Administration, you are dependent on a benefit, you claim the Wmo and you need a personal budget for your child. Are you gonna apply for a care allowance? Or do you run the risk of the government turning against you? Mr. Chairman. The fact is that setbacks can happen to us all in life and that our society has been made unnecessarily complicated. The Christian Union considers it important that the government is serving people and protecting the vulnerable. For this group of people this should not be done via pixels but via personal contact. The Scientific Council for Government Policy, the Council of State, the Broad Social Reviews and the Ombudsman all say: government, please make personal contact, one point of contact with the government for all your questions. For the Christian Union that is the dot on the horizon. I ask the Minister whether she is prepared to put forward proposals with the VNG and send them to the Chamber this spring, so that proposals can also be made for the new period. Mr. Chairman. People often end up in the municipality at the moment. Whether it's youth care, the Wmo, poverty services, shelter for homeless people or facilities like a library or swimming pool, the municipality is there for you. We know that the socio-economic impact of this corona crisis has yet to come for many people. Recourse to these schemes will also increase. Over the past year, we have talked about this on a regular basis. Many aldermen, mayors, council members and residents of municipalities have ring the bell with me. The municipalities do not have enough money to carry out their tasks properly. The water is on their lips. The Christian Union therefore welcomes the fact that, in addition to the extra money that has been made available earlier this year, additional funds will be made available to municipalities in the short term to carry out their tasks. The scale-up discount will be frozen and extra money will be provided for youth care. That's what's needed. Corona costs are also compensated. But the municipalities are right to ask for a long-term perspective. The scaling-up discount is now frozen for two years, but as far as the Christian Union is concerned, it is definitely off the table, including for the longer term. Structural choices will have to be made in the spring. How does the cabinet intend to clarify municipalities and provide certainty about the financial scope for drawing up a budget for the coming period? The municipality of Stadskanaal has announced that it is no longer going to submit a balanced budget and it is expected that many more municipalities will follow. What message does the Cabinet have for them? Is the cabinet prepared to meet them by allowing, for example, the non-closing budgeting or the subsequent submission of the budget? Mr. Chairman. It is important that the government is serving its inhabitants. In recent years, on behalf of the Christian Union, I have often called for attention to be paid to the regions outside the Randstad. I have repeatedly tabled motions with colleagues to ensure that if new policies are to be adopted, if policy choices are to be made or if legislation is to be made, the consequences will be assessed for the regions affected by population decline: the shrinking regions, but also the border regions. I ask the Minister and the Secretary of State how this test takes shape in practice. Can they also give examples of legislation or policy choices in which these considerations are explicitly visible tomorrow? I look forward to that. Mr. Chairman. With Mr Van der Molen, I ask how the cabinet intends to shape an active policy in the area of population decline and shrinkage. I'd like an explanation of that. The compensation package for Zeeland is in the budget. Now it is important that the new agreements made with Zeeland are complied with, that they are fulfilled and implemented. This is also essential for the people of Zeeland to trust in a just and reliable government. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State for an explanation: what is the situation at the moment with regard to the implementation of this point? Mr. Chairman. Many new laws were announced at the start of this government period. There are long-term legislative pathways in several departments. As an example, I would like to mention the modernisation of the Penal Code and bankruptcy legislation. We are also dealing here with constitutional changes. The bill on the right to challenge has already been discussed. We also have legislative proposals on integrity in public administration. We just got the first instalment. Last year in the budget, I called on the cabinet to come forward with legislative proposals to include the integrity test for aldermen in the legislation. It's been announced. There's gonna be a second tranche. Sometimes it is complex to come to legislation. You need good law lawyers. Sometimes laws are complex and it just takes more time, but sometimes it also has to do with capacity and occupation. I ask the Minister if we have enough legal lawyers at the moment to be able to do this work. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union has repeatedly called attention to the meetings of the municipal councils and provinces in this corona time. It can be either physical or digital, but it can't be hybrid. There is such a possibility for committee meetings; they are non-formative. But that is not possible for the decision-making council meetings and the state meetings. I ask the Minister, also in the light of the current corona crisis and developments: should we not also see if we can offer tailor-made solutions and give them room for manoeuvre? Can the Minister respond to the way she looks at that? Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the election in corona time. A debate is taking place this afternoon on the amendment of the Election Act. It is being treated as a matter of urgency because in a number of weeks there will be reclassification elections in the municipality of Eemsdelta. The Christian Union considers it very important that the right to vote, which is a very fundamental right for people in our parliamentary democracy to speak, weighs very heavily even in corona times. The legislation before us this afternoon includes a number of proposals to deny voters access to the voting room or to remove them when they have failed to comply with the health check. The Christian Union has serious doubts about this. I have therefore announced that two amendments are being prepared. We shall present them before the debate this afternoon, so that the debate and a good exchange of views can also take place. I believe that it is a matter of fundamental rights for our electorate, which perhaps we should give the time, maximum space and maximum security in time for their voting rights to be fulfilled. Mr. Chairman. I'll finish with 75 years of freedom. This year it is 75 years since our country was liberated. Last month we commemorated the first meeting of the Second Chamber after World War II here in this Chamber. Two years ago, the whole Chamber adopted a proposal that I, together with Mr Van der Molen and Mr Van Haga, made to arrive at a national mountain programme of aircraft wrecks from the Second World War, in the hope that there will be an honorable farewell to the missing kites and their crew members. There have now been a number of salvages, in Echt-Susteren, where I have been myself, in Lochem and now also in the Markermeer. Two weeks ago I went on the Marker Lake myself and I saw how that storeroom takes place. From this point on, I would like to express a great deal of appreciation for the careful and honourable way in which this is implemented. It is so special that municipalities, schools, children and even in Flevoland an entire province with a very recent history can be involved. I find it incredibly extraordinary that there have been actual remains found in two storerooms, which are of great significance to the next of kin. This brings an honourable farewell closer and is meaningful to the next of kin. I would very much like to give these words of appreciation to the Minister at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u271	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I know that we, on your initiative in the steering committee, would consider 75 years of freedom as a Chamber. But unfortunately, Corona didn't do that. Who knows if there's gonna be another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-3.u272	I shall suspend the sitting until 2:00 p.m. Then let's move on.
