ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u1	We will continue with the debate on the developments surrounding the spread of the coronavirus. We have come to the answers of the Minister for Medical Care. Perhaps it would help if the Minister indicated how he was building his speech, in connection with the interruptions, but also with regard to planning. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. I want to keep the following order. I'd like to make an introductory remark. Then I will come to a number of issues on which many questions have been raised by the Chamber. I'll do that in six cubes. One. The public information. Two. The stage we are in now and the developments after that. Three. The issue of care capacity. Four. The personal protective equipment. Five. The folder international. Six. The folder varia.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u3	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u4	First of all, I would like to make a few preliminary remarks. We are talking today about the developments surrounding the coronavirus. The people who have become sick of it, who are sitting at home now and watching this debate, I wish them well. I would like to try to provide you, as well as the whole of the Netherlands, with further information this afternoon, which will take us a step further in the knowledge about the information, preparations and work associated with the outbreak of the coronavirus. We're dealing with a new virus. We are therefore faced with a unique situation. Many doctors, laboratories, GGD, RIVM and other experts are working incredibly hard to contain that corona virus. I have a great deal of respect for the work they do. So in addition to the attention and the desire to get better for the people who are at home, I would also like to express my thanks towards all those caregivers, all those professionals who are working quite a firecracker right now. Last Thursday, the first contagion with the corona virus was confirmed in the Netherlands. There are now 38 infections in the Netherlands. I think it is important that the steps we are taking should always be based on the expertise of the parties. The RIVM has been mentioned a lot today, but prior to RIVM, the Outbreak Management Team has been sorry, I haven't got a better Dutch name called "RIVM" that includes a lot of different medical experts and I'm going to be a little more extensive about it, fed RIVM with information. When we talk about the corona virus, of course, the question is whether we are maintaining the right size and scale for our measures. There are symptoms of the coronavirus. Many people get flu-like symptoms, often only mild symptoms, but the coronavirus can cause more serious complaints than flu. An important difference is that people in society have not yet built up resistance to the virus. This makes everyone susceptible to contamination, and that also has an impact on the healthcare capacity. That's the thing. In addition, we must always adapt our information on the basis of a progressive understanding. My first introductory remark concerns public information. I would very much like to inform the public very well. That is not easy, because developments are fast following each other. However, I think we should focus on meeting the information needs. We do this through a few websites. Two important websites are: rivm.nl and reichsoverheid.nl. On both sites there is also a telephone number. We will also publish that phone number tomorrow through newspapers. A lot of people can read information. For people who want to call, there's the number 0800-1351. I think this is important. We have also scaled up capacity in recent days, reducing the waiting times at the beginning of this week. That's very important. For both websites, the information is constantly updated; sometimes it happens several times a day. That sometimes makes it difficult to answer questions like: yes, but then it said so on the site and now it says so on the site. This is done on the basis of moving insight. It is important to report this. One of these comments was made last Sunday afternoon, for example. We said first: please contact your doctor by telephone if you have a combination of fever, cough or respiratory disease complaints and come from a risk area, i.e. Northern Italy, China, South Korea, Singapore or Iran. On Sunday afternoon, we announced in the press conference that people should stay at home if they come from the risk area and suffer from mild respiratory problems, and do not have to report to the general practitioner until they have a fever. One of the reasons for this was to remove the pressure from the general practitioners; that is also an important topic this afternoon. We will come back to that later. This information number also helps to remove a number of questions, so that people do not call the general practitioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u5	I see you standing, Mrs Sazias, but I want to see if the Minister is ready with his introductory remarks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u6	No, I haven't. Mr President, if I may, I would like to make a second comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u7	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u8	It's about the phases that we now distinguish with the coronavirus. I'm sorry that this sounds so political, but I think there's a need to try to distinguish a few phases. The first phase was that the Netherlands had no corona-infected patients. We were able to prepare at that stage, such as announcing hygiene measures, preparing information facilities and ensuring that the various parties involved interact. But since last Thursday we also have corona patients. Then it was the first, but now it's 38. This number is also expected to increase. Especially in this first phase of the outbreak, I think the RIVM is going to say to RIVM that because of the growing awareness and getting more insight, the number of patients in the coming period is increasing. On the side of the Chamber, several representatives have informed us that we are now in phase one. In good English this is called "containment"; in plain Dutch this is called "indammen" as far as I am concerned. It's about taking measures to contain the virus. This includes measures such as isolation, testing, information on risk areas and such things. It is very important for us to remain in this phase of containment for as long as possible. It is possible that we may find ourselves in another situation; that is just stage two. Then it's not about containment anymore, but then it's about keeping it as limited as possible. That's where I see a tilt point. I talked to RIVM about that. That tilting point depends on two developments. One: if the GGD is no longer able to do extensive contact research if that group becomes too large. This contributes to a tilting moment. This therefore concerns the capacity of the GGD, but it also depends on the number of contacts to be investigated. The other aspect that is involved is when the list of risk areas, which I have just mentioned, becomes much longer. The phase of containment is then too limited. We'll be in a next phase. An even farther away phase is what is called "the phase of adaptation." Then the virus circulates widely in the Netherlands. We must then take measures to deal with the presence of the virus as well as possible. Then many more people get sick and also seriously ill. Then care capacity issues can become even more specific. Then there must also be extra attention to the question: how do we organise the care for the vulnerable in our society in particular? We don't have a calendar that we can end. It is not so that I can say: this is phase zero and it is then over, phase one is then over and phase two is then over. I give you a bit of the framework within which developments are expected to take place. Then I would like to make a few introductory remarks. These are about the letter I sent on regional coordination last Monday, and I would like to make a comment about 'international'. I see Mrs Sazias standing, but you are dealing with the order of business, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u9	Yes, I also see Mrs. Sazias. I actually want to do it in such a way that the Minister concludes the general introduction first. Then you will have the opportunity to ask questions. But you're not planning on going back to your chair?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u10	No. The Minister mentioned the information channels. We also look at this every day, for example on the website of the RIVM.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u11	That's what the Minister's gonna come back to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u12	Each day there is about an hour or one of the state of play. Now I've just seen a tweet that today's daily update is postponed until later today, because a number of tests are waiting. But yes, we are constantly waiting for the results of tests. I am therefore curious whether this postponement of the announcement has anything to do with the debate at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u13	I can't give a conclusive answer to that. As far as I'm concerned, RIVM information is updated daily. That's what I agreed with the RIVM. So that's what we're doing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u14	But will you come back to that? Because it is an important question that concerns many people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u15	Yeah, that'd be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u16	Then the Minister comes back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u17	I have told you that we always base our working methods on the judgement of experts and that I want to keep you constantly informed. Sometimes it is possible with letters of office, sometimes with technical briefings. They are also needed, because it is necessary to translate medical expertise into administrative measures. In the last few weeks, I've sent the Chamber about 15 letters on the development of the coronavirus. Last Monday there was a letter that was more extensive. In particular, it dealt with care capacity and personal protective equipment. I will come back to that later, but I have an introductory remark to make. I told you that the preparation of the letter took into account the advice of the OMT, the Outbreak Management Team. Those are the experts. This includes doctor-microbiologists, the Association for Infectious Diseases, of course RIVM, company doctors and other parties. They make an opinion that is submitted to other parties, such as directors and domes. There are, for example, the General Medical Association and the hospitals in and the security region and home care are represented. They advise me. I tell you that to show that a chain has been built to involve the various parties in care in the preparation and preparation of advice, for example on care capacity and personal protection measures. A lot of questions have been asked about these personal protection measures and also about care capacity. They were both briefly discussed in the letter. One comment on care capacity. Right now, a large proportion of the patients are in home isolation. That means they're in an environment with very few contacts, maybe sometimes a single roommate. They're in isolation in a safe way. In a number of situations it is necessary, because people have more than mild complaints, to put people in hospital in isolation. In last Monday's letter, I also wrote that I received the advice of the OMT to take preparatory measures for what needs to be done more if hospital care is insufficient. I have indicated that order size 250 places on ic's in isolation are available. Of course, there are many more places available in hospitals, but the point is that not only corona patients get the attention. There are also other medically necessary interventions that cannot wait. So the question is, what else could you do if the capacity of the hospital is not sufficient? So it's not a situation we're in today. It is the reflection of measures that are further away. In that context, I mentioned that nursing homes can also be used to expand capacity. I would like to stress that these are people who are currently staying in a nursing home and then need care that fits the coronavirus, for example by extra oxygen administration. It should be considered whether in some places, in some nursing homes, it is also possible to take care of people there. So this isn't about moving patients. It is precisely about bringing care to the nursing home to such a, often vulnerable, older one. It's about caring capacity. I would like to make a comment on personal protective equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u18	On the previous point, Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u19	There has been a lot of uncertainty about whether or not to place people who become ill with the corona virus in nursing homes. What I do not understand is why it was in such an unclear way in the Minister's letter. It is precisely on this issue that we need to communicate very clearly. You shouldn't want the Minister's letters or reports to give us the idea that we're going to put sick people who have the virus in nursing homes. That is, of course, the impression that has been given. It's also caused a lot of unrest. I would ask the Minister not to do so again, and also to correct it immediately if he is aware that things are being misunderstood. I wonder why that didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u20	The information on the subject is moving very quickly. I keep trying to provide information based on the latest insights, in all kinds of ways. I have ensured that at least the Court is given the opinion of the OMT so that that clarification is given. Wherever possible, this is very broad at the moment. I do try to put that clarity and precision into the information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u21	That's almost an answer to the question. I also asked to set things right if it turns out, in the media, in people's homes, that they arrived wrong. Do not be afraid to admit: we have brought this out in a bad way, we correct that. Can the Minister undertake to do so? We'll be talking about protective equipment later. There too it was just sloppy. In the opinion of the Outbreak Management Team, it was very clear that there are already shortages of protective devices such as mouth caps. In the letter sent by the minister, he nuances that tremendously. Then I think: that's not smart; you have to be honest. It is very important not to cause a panic, but you should always stick to the facts and inform honestly. I'm asking the Minister to keep doing the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u22	I very much agree with that. It is really the follow-up to the speed of action which makes it difficult to coordinate it exactly. But I fully agree with Mr Hijink that this should and should remain unambiguous and not be misunderstandingal. I very much agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u23	Mr President, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u24	A very good question, Mr. Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u25	I'm almost at the end of my introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u26	Then you will have the opportunity to interrupt. But if everyone gets up there and the minister stops talking, it's hard for me, too. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u27	I'd be happy to take that invitation to talk, Mr. Chairman. When it comes to personal protective equipment, yesterday I had discussions with GGD and a delegation of manufacturers and suppliers, with the aim of reaching a common approach to the purchase, distribution and distribution of personal protective equipment, such as mouth caps, with the aim of reaching a common approach. Parties want to cooperate, but this means that healthcare providers and manufacturers must be prepared to break their existing regular agreements with suppliers. So they have to step over their own shadow. But we want to do it this way, where at ROAZ level there are eleven Regional Organs Acute Care........................................................................................................................................................ The manufacturers want to cooperate in this. This means that we, as a government, intervene to ensure that these personal protective equipment are there, that they are there and that we remain there and that we have the approach in place. This approach focuses specifically on the care providers responsible for acute care in the context of the control of infectious diseases. So this is about the general practitioners, the GGDs, the hospitals and the ambulances that are often mentioned this morning. Occasionally, other healthcare providers can be added, such as the aforementioned nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u28	Mr Hijink wants to interrupt, but I'm just looking at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u29	I would like to comment on the international situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u30	I would like to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u31	A point of order? Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u32	It is now completely unclear whether we are still initiating or not. The Minister now mentions a lot of protective measures that he is going to take, and he has just said that they will all come back, but he is already discussing them in detail in his introduction. If the Minister is going to introduce, limit it to an introduction and do not go through all the points on which we have many questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u33	It was my intention to mention a number of important points which were very important in my introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u34	And you'll come back to that in more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u35	Then we can ask questions about that later. Is that the plan, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u36	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u37	My last introductory remark concerns the international situation. We will discuss further developments concerning the coronavirus in Brussels tomorrow with colleagues. On the one hand, I consider the alignment of public information at European level to be very important. On the other hand, there are national measures that need to be taken each time. One that will certainly be mentioned is the fact that the Netherlands was one of the first countries in Europe to tighten up the travel advice for Northern Italy. This means that the Netherlands sometimes wants to take more far-reaching measures or take measures rather than some other countries. Tomorrow France will also be covered, where Macron masks are progressing. I think that's a very bad way of doing things. We shouldn't go on that trail. Solidarity is very important here. I'm gonna go into that later. Before I come to answer the questions, I would like to reiterate that technical briefings are necessary in the coming period to inform you from the expert role, from that information point of view. We will continue to provide information through RIVM and national government.nl. It will continue to look for appropriate measures in the coming period. Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, this does not include high prices for hand gel. I do not think that is possible, so I call for moderation of such prices. The question is sometimes asked: is it useful to start hoarding? No, we should all just do the weekend errands. We are not supposed to cause unrest. It is important to be well informed throughout the Netherlands and to observe our own measures, such as hand washing. We know that a lot of people are lucky enough to recover from the virus. We shouldn't burden care, so we're trying to take the pressure off a little. It will continue to arrive in the coming days, in the coming period, at very precise information. Mr President, this was my introduction. I've collected some folders with questions. The first issue is about public information. Mrs Dik-Faber called for information to be comprehensible and accessible. I very much agree with that. That's an effort, because there are many parties involved, but it's important that national government.nl and rivm.nl both provide good and up-to-date information. You will also hear many experts on the radio and TV. Even then, it is important to give the information in an easy language as best as possible. I have indicated that we will be presenting an advertisement tomorrow, so that the song becomes known in the Netherlands. From different sides of the Chamber it has been asked whether we can not give a daily corona update from the government. As far as I am concerned, that is the information that is updated every day on rivm.nl. In addition, there is sometimes a more than daily update on national government.nl. Should a special line be opened to help Dutch companies abroad? That was a question from Mrs Van den Berg. Or should a separate line be opened for SMEs? I would like to refer to both websites. Of course, companies abroad can keep in touch via the contact centre of Foreign Affairs, so there is no need for a separate number. But keep an eye on the travel advice. Finally, Mrs Ploumen asked for information to the public. Is that information being checked to see if it's traceable and understandable? Yes. This is not only a responsibility from VWS, but also from the other departments. They also sometimes point out that some texts can be more understandable or that there is a need to supplement them. Then we'll improve that and we'll adapt it. So much for the block of public information, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u38	I saw Mrs Van den Berg first. I've been looking at her a little bit, but she's coming back. I'll give her the floor and you'll have the floor, Mr. Jansen. Mrs. Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u39	The minister said there's an update every day on the website, but then the citizen has to look for it. Firstly, not everyone has the same digital ability to do so. There are still 2.5 million low-lettered people in this country. That is why, as a CDA, we have argued that the Minister should give a short update on the news or otherwise every day at a standard time. What's the score? What was fake news? Where can people with questions go? There is therefore a brief summary of what people can best do for themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u40	This approach for the low-literate is a good and appropriate one. We are now in consultation with the Pharos Foundation to see if we can take further measures regarding the comprehensibility of the information. A day-to-day moment from my point of view does not seem to me to be necessary. I expect a lot of the information provided from the RIVM. First of all, I need that information. To that we will add our own communication at all times that is necessary. That can also be several times a day. We don't do that on a journal of ours, but on radio and television. We're gonna keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u41	It's fine if it's just a standard moment over radio and television, and not on a private TV station of the ministry. But a lot of people don't even have a computer. That is why we believe it is important that this information is available via radio and TV, and that it is therefore also applicable in the Caribbean.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u42	But I'm not in favour of a corona news from the Ministry. I am in favour of always informing everyone in the Netherlands where necessary in the coming period. I do this through the RIVM site and through the government site. I would also like to pay particular attention to the fame of that 0800-1351 song.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u43	I am not satisfied; let me put it first. Because this means that people have to go to that RIVM site themselves or call that number. The Minister also wants to prevent that number from overloading. That is why I would like to see an update given by default, as we used to have for the water levels. Whether it's via the NOS or via NPO Radio, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u44	But that standard information will really be published more than daily if the situation so warrants. For radio and television, of course, you have to turn them on to get that information. I want the Netherlands to be well informed. For this I can best use the site of the RIVM and reichsoverheid.nl, and also the 0800-number.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u45	We are not going to agree on this; that is my conclusion. But I am still waiting for an answer with regard to the Kingdom countries and the BES islands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u46	I'd like to get back to that later on at the international cube.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u47	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u48	The minister said this was the conclusion of his block of public information. I have asked very clearly for scenarios, measures and action. How many infections and how many victims are we going to take what steps in the end? Doesn't that fall under the same heading for you? It was my intention that we should actively inform the people at the front about everything. Then I have a second question. If we're gonna post that ad tomorrow with that phone number, why don't we just make a really simple six-step list like they do in England? It includes the steps you need to take the moment you think you might be a carrier and infected with the virus. It's very simple. Why don't you put that in the ad? Then people don't have to surf to that website; then they can just see it. I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u49	In the field of public information, I have just talked about the various channels of information, the way in which we want to inform people and the familiarity of the song. I try to give all the information on national government.nl, also about the development of the virus. Mr Jansen uses the word "scenarios" for that. I also try to provide more detailed information for the coming period via reichsoverheid.nl and rivm.nl. That's one question. The other question is: why don't you do it like in other countries? I think that our information is more extensive and more precise and that we use that site in the right way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u50	I therefore conclude that the Minister is only working digitally or via television and radio, but not on paper. The CDA also said that there are people who do not have a computer and who also want to be informed. A paper publication in an advertisement in a newspaper therefore seems very desirable to me. I am also looking at the effect of this kind of information on the question we have asked about the 900 students of Vindicat. The news just got out that they're coming back early tomorrow. They return prematurely because they are concerned. So you can see the effect in that. If you actively pay attention to this and inform them of this, they will come back. So the question to the Minister is: do you also intend to deal with this more actively? 'Cause these people have moved out now anyway. I have also asked if you are prepared to take a much stronger stand against travelling to such areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u51	I'll come back later on that trip. This active information obligation is precisely what it is about. If I have to choose a paper medium for that, I think sometimes there may be delays in the coverage. That is precisely why I want to use reichsoverheid.nl so extensively, because then we are able to quickly get information to the whole of the Netherlands. Indeed, not everyone uses a computer. It is very good with the use of computers in the Netherlands, but it is therefore very important that people can also call, so that they can get someone on the phone and so that the information on national government.nl is not only written but also verbatim known. That's why calling that number is important. That's why we're going to pay even more attention to that song and increase the capacity there, so that people quickly get that information and don't have to stand on hold for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u52	Rounding up. I see the minister works with a phone number and he works digitally, but the most simple step, on paper, he just doesn't want to put it. I find that incomprehensible, given the number of people who do make use of this information source. You miss a lot of people in that, especially the elderly, who may not want to be digitally active, who may be watching the news once a day and perhaps other programs they like. But those people also read the paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u53	So it's not exactly like that either. I already told you that ad will be in the paper tomorrow. If there is cause, we can also distribute further information through the newspaper in the sense of advertisements, not only through the editorial columns. But I think the speed of the information will help to put the emphasis on national government.nl and rivm.nl.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u54	I have another question about those websites. Both Rijksoverheid.nl and Rivm.nl are mentioned. Do I understand correctly that you basically have all the information if you go to the government site, which also has click-throughs to the RIVM? Or are there any additional things you can only go to on rivm.nl?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u55	No, you can indeed click from national government.nl to the RIVM. So you're gonna come up with the same information. It is important here to bring together the information as well as possible. You know that in recent weeks we have put a lot of emphasis on rivm.nl. Why? Because it was mainly information about public health. The last week, of course, there have been a lot of questions about people coming back from vacation and going back to work. This concerns information for employers and employees and also information for people who had to go back to school, i.e. education information. This also means that national government.nl gets an ever wider involvement from other departments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u56	It does indeed seem very useful that you have just one site where you can actually go for all the questions. It was also about the paper distribution. I think I saw a movement there with the minister. At first he said that only that number would be reported, but in the conversation with the Chamber he also indicated on the other hand that if there is any other information that is not really very time sensitive, which is valid for a little longer and can therefore also be given via newspapers, he would also be open to it. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u57	Yes, you did. The emphasis should be on good and unambiguous information. Mr Hijink has just pointed that out, and he is right. Sometimes it is good to quickly bring the information to the Netherlands. Then a site at this time is the most convenient. That's why I thought it'd be nice for people to call next door so they can hear that information, too. In addition, there is attention for people who are not reading or writing. But more general information, such as repeating tips around washing hands, can indeed be done in writing. We will. Perhaps I would have put too much emphasis on it, but that is not on the actuality of the information. We'll have to do that through the website first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u58	Thank you for that answer. I would like to add one more thing. We don't want it to get any worse. I think we're doing a really good job right now. But it might well be possible that there should be an update on television because the situation demands it. I would very much like to have the assurance that a sign interpreter will be used. Then you have a good range for a lot of people. It can reduce the panic if information is given regularly by the RIVM or by yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u59	I think that's a valuable suggestion. I'd love to take it with me. We want to avoid trouble with everyone. Good information is therefore important. I'd like to take this with me. In any case, after this debate, I intend to reply by letter to a number of questions which cannot yet be answered. Then I'll take this question with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u60	The question about the sign interpreter was also exactly my question. I would like to inform the Minister that I am pleased to hear that he is in contact with Pharos about people who are less easily able to write texts. It may also be possible to contact organisations for people who are hearing impaired or deaf. Finally, I should like to mention the second half of my interruption, which is perhaps reassuring that it does not all depend on the Minister. My parents, who are recently digitally skilled, let me know that Stichting Welzijn Elderen in their hometown simply contacted all the elderly and informed them of where to find information. I see that there are also a lot of beautiful things happening at local level and that organisations in welfare work... I thought it was a good example to mention here in the debate. I hope that welfare organisations in other places will also take responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u61	That's a good example. I hope there's a lot of them. Reading websites is also such a possibility. We're looking at more. Both being unambiguous in communication, as well as being up-to-date with information, and reaching out to everyone will be of great importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u62	We are talking about information. I do not want to sound suspicious at all, but I am very curious as to why the figures of the RIVM are coming later today, while we are having this debate. What's going on here? They say we're waiting for tests. But we wait for tests all the time. I am afraid that if, for example, there were a significant increase at the end of the afternoon, we would not feel comfortable here. Then we do not feel well informed here. Why are these figures late today, during this debate? "We're waiting for tests." We wait all day for tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u63	First, on the number of tests. The counter was at 38 yesterday. I said we're really expecting more at this stage of the corona virus outbreak. You repeated the question. I will be able to answer your question before the end of the debate. I thought I knew we'd update the RIVM site every day at 4:00 p.m. But I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u64	So far, it's been around 1:00 a.m. every day, 1:30 p.m. That is why I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u65	Okay, I'll check that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u66	Not that I am so worried about it right away, but it is of course nice to have the current information when we are having the debate here. I would therefore be in favour of not waiting until the end of the debate, but of suspending for five minutes in 15 minutes and then having the most up-to-date figures. I do agree with Mrs Sazias that it is very uncomfortable if there is a significant increase. Or later, the minister will come back with a note, just like the NIS, and we shouldn't have that kind of shit here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u67	Look, when we had one or two patients, we could communicate it per patient. That's what we've been doing for ten patients for a long time. Over the last few days, we've seen a growth in the number of patients. That's why I find it useful to choose a moment once a day. I think that's very good. I will see how quickly I can report the actual number of patients from today to you, and I will do so during this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u68	I hesitate to ask my question on the right block, but I'm just trying. Of course, we also get up-to-date information from people who look at the communication of the outbreak from a scientific point of view. I just learned of an investigation by a Leiden politician; not a physician, but a politician. He's a "he's" suggesting that communication and measures need to make a much greater distinction between different groups of people who are more or less vulnerable. This scientist suggests that maybe you shouldn't cancel football games, but bridge games. Sorry for all the older people who can't bridge; I can't either. But the idea is, of course, that you need to look more closely at which measure fits in with what degree of vulnerability. My question to the Minister is: is there any thought along these lines?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u69	We started with the website of the RIVM. It actually contained general information on public health. We started last Thursday or Friday at reichsoverheid.nl for precisely this reason. I think it is important that we should be able to address groups in society more precisely, such as schoolchildren, workers, employers. People who travel are also a category, by the way. That's how we're gonna have to refine it. If the corona outbreak persists, I think we are in fact increasingly in need of specific information. Then I guess it's good to tune in our information on that. This is going to be quite a challenge, because we must also look at whether this information is coherent and whether one information is not being overtaken by the other. But I think we should make the effort to tailor it specifically, not only for vulnerable groups, but also for other groups in society. So that's what we're working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u70	That's good to hear. If I ask the same question about measures, is there anything to be said about them? I realize you're getting involved in medical experts' actions, but perhaps the Minister can tell us about how that's being looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u71	Sometimes in a technical briefing you could zoom in on a certain group of people. That still sounds a bit general, but think of what I argued in my introduction. If we are talking about vulnerable groups and if this outbreak is taking a long time or is getting big, I think that we should indeed pay particular attention to it. The same applies to care professionals. Or more precisely: sometimes we will have to focus our actions or our communication specifically on general practitioners or hospitals. It now sounds quite clear as I say, but there are a lot of categories in Dutch society that need information and that need to be brought in a congruent way to all of the Netherlands and to you and me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u72	However, very briefly about the number of current infections. Two nurses came in early this morning. Two hours ago, a message came in that there's an infection in Almere. It is not so difficult to get a note now stating that the counter is currently 41 or perhaps higher? It's not that complicated, is it? We can wait until later in the debate, but apparently there have been infections. I do not understand why we are talking about 38 cases here, whereas this information seems to indicate that there are at least 41 cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u73	I just said the RIVM counter gave the information yesterday: 38. I also said that more infections are expected at this stage of the outbreak. I think it is very good not to report this per case. I think it is very good to name a day-to-day moment for this, plus the information on the RIVM site that one can see where that contamination has occurred. As a result of Mrs Sazias' question, I would like to see what is now understood about the number of infections. I would ask that this be done during this debate. Then I'll inform you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u74	Of course that's fine, but it's weird that we're just two and a half hours later than usual. That's what I'm tasting from some of my colleagues. We are having a debate and yet the figures are not in order. I think that's just a weird thing to do. That makes me feel very annoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u75	Yes, you made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u76	I object to that. We provided information yesterday, and we indicated by letter of Parliament that it is not possible to deliver a RIVM message or a letter of inquiry per patient. So we have to go to another way of communicating: a daily update by the RIVM on their site. Today's one needs to be placed, too. Again, I thought that would be at 4:00. So that will still be the case during this debate. If your Chamber asks if that information can come now, that's fine. But in the core, that's not the point. These measures are now no different. So when it comes to our way of working, what we have to do in the Netherlands when it comes to isolation, about public information, about the international side of the matter, it's no different with 38 or two times 38.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u77	I suggest you move on. I assume RIVM officials are listening. Maybe there'll be more information on the number of infected patients later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u78	Mr. Chairman. I come to a second block and it's about phasering. I just told you that we first had the phase of no patients and now we had a small number of patients. The next phase is the situation of mitigation: keeping small, limiting. And then there is the final phase, which could be called adaptation. Mr Jansen asked if I could set a hard limit for this. I argued that I can't. It depends on the GGD capacity, on the number of contact investigations, but it also depends to a large extent on the areas that you can identify as a risk area. We now have a number of areas that you can identify as a risk area. That is a limited number of countries. If that becomes a completely different situation, we'll be in a different phase. This concerns in particular the capacity of the GGDs, the traceability of the coronavirus and the measures associated with it. The best information I can give is the information I sent you this week on the report from the Outbreak Management Team. That team too will come back together in the coming period, I thought even tomorrow. In fact, Mr Renkema asked a question of that effect: if the strategy of intaining no longer works, do you go to a next stage and what kind of information do you have to maintain? I think I answered Mr Jansen's question, Mr Renkema, on that point too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u79	I'll see if the minister's done with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u80	I have more questions before the block of phases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u81	Then I suggest you do it first. Mr. Jansen, you just suggested that, remember? Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u82	In the direction of Mrs Dik-Faber, I intend to prepare for the next steps. If you're in phase one now, are you prepared for phase two? I believe that for the corona virus we are never prepared, that we always take preparatory measures. As an example, I refer to the letter I sent on Monday from the Outbreak Management Team on possible measures. I would like to emphasise this, to inform you on the one hand and not to cause unrest on the other. But I can imagine people wanting to know what they can do now and being a little further away. So the preparation is never finished. I am going to inform you about the appropriate measures, including in the coming period. Mr Veldman asked: did we not take far-reaching measures too quickly, learning from previous outbreaks? No, that's not my impression. We are following the situation very closely. Based on the expertise of RIVM and others, we determine what follow-up steps to take. We also involve the administrative coordination consultation. In this case, for the coronavirus, there is an extra role that rests with this minister, because the disease has been designated as an A disease. The measures are therefore partly related to this approach. Mrs Diertens asked: "Some companies go beyond the advice of RIVM and GGD. Can the Minister give further consideration to this point?" Employers can, of course, take further measures. We have seen examples on television this week of companies saying that they are closing a day or no longer travelling abroad. This is, of course, the employer's own responsibility. In some cases this is a more far-reaching measure than GGD or RIVM advises, but frankly I am fine with that. There's not just a government responsibility. There is also a responsibility for employers, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u83	No, Mrs Diertens, you will not have the floor. We've just agreed that the Minister will answer the questions first. You will have the opportunity to ask questions, and so will Mr Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u84	There are three more questions. Mr. Jansen has asked for different measures to be appointed in various phases. He mentioned a number of points. The active information of the Netherlands. I'd say tick in the box. That's what we're doing. Then there is the question of a negative travel advice. The travel advice is systematically adapted to the insights we have. As I have indicated, we are one of the first in Europe to amend the travel advice to Northern Italy. Then there's the reporting obligation. The reporting obligation is part of the designation as "A" disease. A doctor must inform the GGD that there is a suspicion of a patient carrying the coronavirus. That's actually the situation. Then it's always testing for airway complaints. I said in the introduction that it is not always possible to test. If there are mild respiratory complaints, combined with return from a risk area, the advice is: stay home and check for a few days to see if the symptoms become more serious. If it gets more serious, please report to the GP and do so by phone. Then it can be examined in consultation with the GGD whether there is a need for testing. At least that's what makes people do what they can themselves. It also ensures that the general practitioner is not overloaded. Finally, it also leads to the best use of test capacity. Then open and good communication about scenarios and measures: that is exactly what we are doing and what we are continuing to do. There was a question on this subject about how things stand with the compilation or adaptation of roadmaps. That was a question from Mrs Van den Berg. Each security region has its own crisis plan. Those are public plans. In addition, regions also have pandemic flu plans, which we can use a lot of in this situation. Mrs Sazias asked if we have enough capacity for contact research, because contact research is very labour-intensive. At the moment the GGD can handle all that, but there is no infinite capacity. One of the tilting points for developments around the coronavirus is precisely the availability of capacity at the GGD for contact investigations. Ms. Ploumen asked what the definition of the major outbreak is. That's the final phase, you might say. I hope to have provided insight into the different stages. You could say that the major outbreak is the situation of adaptation in the Netherlands, so we have to learn how to deal with it. I really see that as two steps further than the situation we are now in. We are now in the phase of containment. (NL) Mr President, these were the questions about the phasing out of the outbreak, insofar as there is something clear to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u85	First Mr Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u86	First Mr Jansen, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u87	Mr. Jansen, there you are again. Mrs. Diertens also had a question. Mr. Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u88	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to Mr Renkema. The advantage of saving up is that you can ask three questions in one go. That also saves time. The first question is about RIVM. You say as long as they can handle the contact investigation. Can you give us an indication of what we should think about? How many contagion cases should there be before RIVM hits a ceiling? Do you have an estimate of that? It doesn't have to be accurate to the decimal point or the point, but an indication. The second question concerns reporting obligations. We meant a duty to inform people who come back from such a fireplace, a large area at risk such as northern Italy. We did not mean that people should report when they joined the general practitioner, but that they should take active action themselves. Then there's the third question. The reason we raise these respiratory complaints is that several patients have been found to be infected with the virus, but that would not have happened if they had not been examined themselves in the hospital outside that directive. You say that the advice is to stay at home, but that advice should be to the hospitals: check people who come with these complaints, because there may be contamination? Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u89	Three questions, three answers. I said earlier that the capacity of the GGD is not infinite. I cannot say when the end of that capacity has been reached. That depends very much on it; if a lot of cases occur quickly, then that capacity is faster at the border, but if it is in a few weeks or perhaps longer, the GGD can also last longer. That test capacity for those contact tests, it's all over. The GGD, of course, wants to try to do so as long as possible and as well as possible with everything in it. That's answer one. Two: the reporting obligation of everyone who comes from outside and is back in the Netherlands. Who are they supposed to report to? What would the action be? The most important action, if you are from abroad, especially from such a risk area, and if you have mild airway complaints, is that you stay home for a few days, to see if the symptoms worsen. Reporting to the doctor is really a step further. I have indicated the reasons for this, for example that there is no infinite capacity for general care. Then there are those mild complaints outside the guidelines. I think it has been well said earlier in the debate on your question. Of course, good care is always provided by the hospitals. If Inf@ct messages come from the RIVM, the hospitals will take that into account, but you can imagine that a lot is coming towards the hospitals, so I ask for some understanding that they should also take that information. The general testing of everyone with airway complaints is not feasible, so we need to look for measures that are appropriate to the situation. That's what I'm trying to argue this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u90	I get the first answer. I don't agree with the third answer, but I have to deal with it. Then there's the story about the duty of reporting. Let's face it, I'm talking about a reporting obligation for people coming back from such a fireplace, from a high-risk area such as northern Italy or Hubei. Those are the fireplaces I mentioned. Surely it is possible that these people will come forward when they come back, even if the complaints are still very limited? Well, at least they're in the picture. If they still try to contact us at a later stage, if it gets worse, then at least we know what the background is. Then you've already done a piece of work. It's got to be possible to put that somewhere somehow, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u91	The pressure on the healthcare professionals is already enormous. That is why Sunday afternoon at that press conference it was indicated that you should stay at home when there is a combination of return from such a risk area and mild airway complaints. Take care of yourself. See how the complaints develop. If there's a fever, contact the GP. That's the time to report. We should not pretend to have endless capacity in care. We are in the process of taking the best steps in the situation, step by step. This includes a prudent use of general practitioner care and hospital care, as well as the capacity of GGD and RIVM.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u92	Short, closing, Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u93	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u94	I understand your capacity problem, but that does mean that if these people are infected they can possibly light their loved ones at home, because we don't have them in the picture yet and we advise them to stay home. So that's the consequence?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u95	The consequence is that people who have been travelling to such a risk area and have mild complaints do well to assess their situation, see if it is getting more serious and talk about it with the people in their home situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u96	I found the story about the phases in which we have to work very clear, actually. We are now in the phase of containment. Let us hope that we can sustain that phase as long as possible. The minister said that we could get phase two after that, hypothetically. That's what we call limitation. Then we try to take other measures. He used the word "tipping point." The word "tile point" suggests something sudden. I understand that all attention is now focused on containment, but is there any work at this stage, both politically and also in the preparation of implementation, on scenarios that are needed at that stage?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u97	I mentioned the indication for that tilt point. This concerns the capacity for contact research and the number of areas at risk. If that gives us a completely different picture, we'll be in a next phase. This means that we need to look again at the availability of care capacity, including in hospitals. Such a measure as I mentioned earlier for nursing homes, so that vulnerable elderly people are given care in the nursing home, is the best solution to this situation. That means, for example, bringing oxygen tanks to the nursing home. So, are you getting ready for that? Yeah, we're getting ready for that. GGDs also have these pandemic plans. They're part of that situation, too. The security regions have crisis plans, so they too are preparing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u98	Locking up. Are the relevant social actors already involved in these scenarios? I can imagine that this applies to nursing homes and possibly schools or other institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u99	Not all at once, I'd like to say. Especially the dome of the nursing and nursing homes is of course involved in such a scenario. They also gain knowledge of the work of the Outbreak Management Team. So it is true to involve as many parties as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u100	The Minister mentioned earlier that we can use the experience of the GD regions that already have flu plans. But are there different plans for each region? To what extent is this scaled up and shared? I'm always talking about a learning culture, but I'd like to know if that's the case here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u101	That has been well arranged by now. The various GGDs in the Netherlands have good contact with each other and exchange the information well with each other. On the one hand you have 25 GGDs, and on the other hand you have eleven ROAZ regions. A third partner I would like to mention is the security regions. The presidents are all mayors of some larger places and of very large places. This information is becoming more and more coordinated. So one learns from one another. One informs one another. That is nothing new, by the way. Both those crisis plans and that flu pandemic information have all been prepared for some time. It's also being practiced.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u102	In fact, I would like to comment on the phase of containment. I just want to take a step back from last week. If I understand correctly, last week it was still like this: if you came from northern Italy and you were ill, then it was not advised to stay home. If I understand correctly, the advice now is to stay home when you come from Northern Italy, feel sick and have complaints. I find it worrying that this advice was not given last week. I wonder if the Minister will be able to comment on the following. How is it that that advice was not given last week, while we are happy to say that this week does? And how come I feel we're chasing the facts anyway, because maybe we should have done that last week?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u103	I don't think we're chasing the facts. We said on Sunday afternoon: there are now many people on the way back from northern Italy, so take care of yourself in light complaints and return from such a ski trip, i.e. in light airway complaints and return from such a risk area. So there has been an adjustment in the information. We will experience this much more often if this outbreak continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u104	That's right, but my specific question is, why didn't that happen until Sunday? We know that last week people came back from northern Italy who had already had complaints and had already reported. But they're not advised to stay home. So, unfortunately, we already took a risk last week. That is the worrying point. We could have prevented that by advising these people to stay home at the time. So why didn't we change that protocol until Sunday, if we could have done it sooner and thus prevented contamination?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u105	Mrs Van Esch is getting to the point why you have not taken measures before. Well, the furthest measure is that you now say to the Netherlands: we lock everything and we stop everywhere. But then our society will stop. With everything that is in me, I would like to say: choose the best appropriate measures. They develop over time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u106	Just a brief closing remark. I didn't say lock the land. I said last week it was people who had been to Northern Italy, who came home with complaints that might have related to the corona virus, and they were not advised to stay home. On that particular point, I find it really worrying that we did not amend that protocol until last Sunday. We may have caused more infections than we had to. I don't think that's appropriate to the phase of containment. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u107	Clear. I gave my answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u108	I would like to have a little more clarity on how caregivers are dealt with. I am referring to both doctors and nurses who are infected with the corona virus. I am also hearing from the sector itself that it is being dealt with very differently. On the one hand, a family doctor is in quarantine at home after contact with an infected patient. Of course, that has a huge impact on the practice where they work. At the same time, in hospitals where employees may have become infected with the virus, people continue to work until they develop complaints. I'd like to hear the Minister's next comment. What exactly is the policy? When are you supposed to be a health care provider? When will there be intervention? When will it be tested? What exactly is the policy? And why is that so different between general practitioners and hospitals?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u109	These are two issues which both come back to me in my answer. One is about care capacity and the other is about personal protective equipment. Do you mind if I put those questions to you in a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u110	Then you will have the opportunity to... Yeah, but that was the deal. You guys agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u111	Yeah, but this isn't about capacity or protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u112	The Minister also mentioned personal protective equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u113	Oh, yeah. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u114	But that's not what this question is about, is it? This is about why a general practitioner, who has been in contact with an infected patient, goes into quarantine himself, on the advice of the GGD, and why healthcare professionals continue to work in hospitals until they get complaints, after they may have been in contact with an infected patient. That's unclear. For such a general practitioner's practice, it has a huge impact when a doctor has to be at home for two weeks. Working through is also dangerous, because then he can infect new people. That's a dilemma. I'd like to know what the policy is. I don't think that has much to do with the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u115	I hope I will come back to that, otherwise I will answer this question in writing. I think it is very important to break up the role of the Health Service and the measures taken by a hospital. If I have not answered this question in a moment, I will answer it in writing. Mr. Chairman. I need to correct myself at the time of the RIVM counter. I understand that RIVM is announcing how many people have been tested positive every day at 2:00 p.m. I now have the information that the number of cases is 82. There are 82 positive cases in the Netherlands. The RIVM says that such a firm increase fits in the picture. Partly this is a catch-up effect. People are still reporting and a contact investigation is still taking place. So we'll update every day at 2:00 p.m. Are all the tests always ready for 2:00 p.m.? No, that's not the case, but this is the pricking of a moment in the day to give information on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u116	I don't know where Mrs. Sazias is. She'll definitely come back. This question has been asked by her, along with other MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u117	I have the following question to the Minister. He says it fits the image. But what image does it fit in? In the image that we're in the phase of containment or in the image that we're going from one phase to another? I think it would be a good idea to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u118	I read here: part of this is a catch-up effect; people are still reporting. This reads as: people become increasingly aware and report to the general practitioner. So that will be meant by "the catch-up effect." This fits in with this phase. I'm afraid I'll be able to qualify.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u119	The number of infections has then doubled in a very short time. That is worrying, I would say. The Minister does not really indicate what the consequences are now and whether RIVM also advises to take other measures. He's just mentioning the number now. I would like to have a little more explanation about the consequences. Has RIVM said anything about taking additional measures, or is it indeed: we expected this and we are looking at it? I think a lot of people are startled by this number.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u120	I read from the work of the RIVM: "Such a firm increase fits into the picture. Partly it's a catch-up effect." That's the explanation I got from the RIVM. This is actually also exemplary for what happens in developments around the outbreak of the virus. We should try to... No, we should not try, we should provide information and measures that fit the situation. I believe that we are still taking the right measures, which are appropriate to this situation. These are measures such as isolation, contact research and good public information. So those measures will not change. If there is a completely different situation, I will report it to your Chamber and also to the rest of the Netherlands. You can count on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u121	I think that's fine, but I think we need more information in the short term. This week, when Mr Van Dissel gave his briefing, we also asked whether we had a map of everyone's whereabouts. The vast majority is indeed coming this way from northern Italy. So there is a clear reason, a clear reason why these people have become ill. I would also like to hear whether this still applies to these new cases, because I was also told in the briefing that we still do not know this from a number of people. If there are people in the new group that we can't figure out why they got infected, then there may be a next step to be taken. It is important that we hear more about this from the Minister this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u122	If I am given any other information in the meantime, I will tell you, but I do not expect to hear any more about it. In the technical briefing it was about the tilting moments. One of the reasons for a tilting moment is that the number of risk areas increases enormously. If that is the case, I do think that is a good reason to inform your Chamber. The same applies if at some point the GGD's capacity for the contact investigation fails. Again, I hope not. I really, with the G.D.D., want to try to keep that up. That's what the stakes are for. I will separate these more large-scale developments from the number of 82, but if there are large-scale developments, we must of course report them. Information provision is crucial for this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u123	At the same time, this interrupting debate shows how complicated public information is. Now we know the number, but very important is the explanation and it is actually still unknown. I am not even so much interested in the exact number, but rather in the question of whether the increase is directly related to the already known infected cases or to people coming from areas where we know you may be infected there. So my question is whether as much explanation as possible can be attached to the daily update, otherwise it raises many new questions. Once again, with all due respect for the complexity of the information on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u124	Is it an idea to come back to that in detail in the second term? RIVM's over there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u125	If there's any further information to be given, I'd be happy to. Mr Van der Staaij asks for this to be included in the daily information on the RIVM site. If that is possible, if that insight in a clear redirection is there, then I want to see if that insight can also be provided. Now most patients can be traced back to northern Italy. We don't know about a small number of patients. We will examine what is the case with the 82, but the question is whether this will lead to more specific measures of a different kind. The daily update on the RIVM site contains a limited number of data. If there are more large-scale developments, you will be told separately. Then there must be a letter of inquiry or a technical briefing, or both.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u126	I am perplexed, and I sincerely believe that: an increase from 38 to 82 infections, which is simply said to fit in with the development of the virus. That can't be true, can it? Can't it be true that this fits in with development? And then we're still in phase one. Or are we heading towards phase two now? Indeed, contact research around these people must take place. But at once as many people are going to be a huge burden for the research and for the GDD. Can we handle that? What kind of term are we talking about? I don't know how long a contact investigation takes, but is that a day, is that a few days, or does it take more than a week? If you have so many infections, you're gonna need incredible numbers of people to do that investigation. I would like some clarification on this, especially in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u127	In my introduction, I said that we are in phase one. We're still in phase one. I also said when we're going to another phase. One of the reasons for this is that the number of areas at risk is increasing enormously. Another reason is that the capacity for the GGD's contact investigation is no longer sufficient. I also said that the GGD is doing its utmost to do all these contact checks. I'm sure they'll work on that. If I have large-scale new developments to report, I will certainly do so. But that's how one fact piles up on the other. It's been like this all week. I would very much like to try to inform your Chamber and the whole of the Netherlands, but there are no developments yet that I can announce. I understand the questions very well, but I would also like to keep you informed of appropriate measures to prevent inconsistencies in the information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u128	One final question, Mr. Chairman. Could the Minister please tell us when we are going to be at risk? What should happen before we become a risk area? 'Cause at this rate, we're shooting up really fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u129	A number of risk areas have been identified by RIVM in conjunction with European colleagues from RIVM, gathered in the ECDC. If there are any developments, of course I'll report them to you as well. But let me say that high-pitched questions of course do not help to keep the peace on the one hand and also to give you the factual information. That is what we are doing, giving factual information, indicating the appropriate measures and also reporting on them. There's a zit job for the GGD's and for other parties. In advance, I assume that anyone can do their job. If you really can't do that anymore, I'll tell you about it, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u130	However, I would like to return to the case I mentioned in my contribution. She's at home with the corona virus, quarantined. That contact investigation has already been done, but the people from that contact investigation are not advised to stay home. So all these people are just going to work right now, going shopping, so now they're just going out on the street. Those are people who have been in contact with someone with the corona virus. So they're going out on the street now and they're not being tested. There's a concern in that. I'm thinking, "Help me, how fast are we going from 38 to 82?" Do we not go up faster if we stick to the policy that these people do not have to stay at home or be tested? I think: when are we going to specifically change that policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u131	If that adjustment is in order, I'll let you know. I base myself on the insights of the experts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u132	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u133	This was the block phase. I now come to the issue of care capacity and then to personal protective equipment. Mr. Chairman. First of all, the point of the SP: can we get ahead of the closure of hospitals and how can we provide care in the region? I said in my introductory words that, under the coordination of the GGD and more specifically the Director of Public Health of the GGD, preparations are being made to expand the capacity of care in the short term and to make the most of it. Again, there are 25 GDs. They do that in ROAZ context. In these ROAZ contexts, therefore, concrete agreements need to be made on how to increase capacity or take other measures. I will also speak to all the ROAZ presidents about this myself. I'll start next week, Monday or Tuesday, I think. Mr Hiddema asked if the hospitals were prepared for large numbers of patients. Yes, hospitals are prepared for large groups of patients. They all have continuity plans at their disposal not only for the coronavirus, but also in a broader sense. It also allows for statements on which care can be provided and which care can be provided later. In addition, these pandemic maps are ready for each security region. Again, also in the direction of Mr Hiddema: fortunately, not all patients do not have to go to hospital, especially if there are mild symptoms. This means that home isolation is also an important instrument for us. This question was raised not only by Mr Hiddema, but also by several other parties. Among other things, by Mr Hijink. Have the hospitals prepared themselves? Yeah, with those continuity plans, as I've already indicated. Ms Ploumen asked what it means when sections are temporarily closed down. In the region, in that ROAZ context, further agreements are made on whether an operation can be moved from one hospital to another. Of course, you don't want that kind of thing, but if it's necessary, it has to be looked at in the region. Once again, next week I will also speak with the ROAZ presidents myself. Mr Renkema asked: does the Minister intend to take additional measures for intensive care departments? Mrs van den Berg also spoke about this. Mr Hijink spoke about this. I mentioned in a previous letter that all hospitals in the Netherlands can nurse patients in strict isolation. At least 250 beds are available for intensive care insulation. But not all patients need to be treated in isolation on ic. You can also see that many patients can stay in home isolation. If necessary, a measure such as cohort care may also be envisaged. This means that a larger group of patients is put together and that therefore no longer each room is intended for a patient. This way you can take additional measures at a subsequent stage. Mrs Van den Berg asked if it is possible to scale up to the emergency hospital. I told you before, most patients don't have to go to the hospital. You'd rather have patients in home isolation. In addition, hospital capacity is still sufficient. It'd be nice if it stayed that way. The question is whether opening up the emergency hospital is an effective solution. The employees who have to man the emergency hospital, of course, women come from another hospital, so the question is whether this offers much relief. Mr Hijink had also asked this question. If patients can be accommodated in nursing homes, Mr Hijink has asked. I may have already given the answer to that. For the sick person it is of course more pleasant to receive care in their own environment than to move to a hospital. In each situation it will be necessary to consider which nursing home can be made available for this purpose. This really is a new measure, an additional measure for the situation when it arises. Mrs Sazias had asked the same question about nursing homes. Mr Hijink has asked for financial support for health care institutions that are facing financial difficulties. I have to take the measures now, but I will also take stock of the additional financial requirements. So that's a point to come back to later. Then Mrs Sazias asked about the available capacity of acute hospital care on the basis of a motion tabled by 50PLUS. In the meantime, seven of the eleven ROAZ regions already have a system such as Acuut Zorgportal or 2TWNTY4 in use. The other four are orienting themselves on their choice. That is where progress is being made. What about the availability of healthcare providers, asked Mrs Van den Berg. We hear that the general practitioners in particular are becoming overburdened, she says. That's what I hear. I also had a conversation yesterday with the LHV, the National General Medical Association. One of the measures that can be taken is to ensure a good availability of the 0800 number, so that only the questions addressed to the general practitioner actually end up there and not anywhere else. That was also a question that Mrs Ploumen asked. Mrs Dik-Faber asked if GPs could be supported with their additional tasks. When the need arises, we will call on interns, for example, almost graduate doctors, or basic doctors. In any case, this is a measure mentioned earlier in the OMT opinion. It will be discussed in the Regional Consultation Acute Healthcare Chain. This was the cube...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u134	Care capacitance. Then I'm going to see Mrs Ploumen. She was earlier, but I told her to sit down again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u135	I would like to come back with the Minister to the question of who is making the decisions when there are real problems in the care sector because capacity is too limited. All these abbreviations are complicated, but the minister says: the Regional Transfer Acute Care Chain consult with the Director of Public Health and then they look at it together. I'm confident they'll come out just fine in times when everything's just going to work out. But if we get into that third phase, it's gonna be sanding, of course. Are we gonna have an operation or are we gonna record three people affected by the corona virus? My question is: who will supervise that and who will make that decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u136	I strongly support the fact that these decisions are taken in the region and that the DPG, the Director of Public Health of the Health Service, has a good picture of regional situations. That's an important figure. There are many important figures, but this is an important figure. The conversations over the last few days also show that everyone wants to join those appointments. There is coordination in the region, with the GGD playing an important role. In addition, the cooperation of the hospitals is also necessary. If this is not possible, then at the end of the day a decision can also be made by the person who can give a clue, and that is me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u137	Let us hope that it does not come to that; that is not the intention behind my question either. I listen to the Minister very carefully. So if one doesn't come out well at regional level, then the Director of Public Health has perseverance to say, people, is this how we're going to do it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u138	No, the word "perseverance" is not good. Agreements are now being made on the basis of voluntary and good cooperation. The region-by-region insight lies with the Director of Public Health. I see that everyone wants to work together, but if it doesn't work out, I will be in contact with the presidents of the ROAZs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u139	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u140	Finally. Imagine that there is a problem in the region and that there is no way out. Is the Minister sure that he will then be alerted by the Chairman of the Regional Consultation Acute Care Chain, so that it does not drag on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u141	Yeah, it sure doesn't drag around. There is coordination between the different regions, so that comes up very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u142	I actually have two questions. My first is like this. Specialists say to us: rather ten corona patients in one hospital together than being spread across different hospitals, because then you have to isolate people everywhere and take protective measures everywhere. That seems to be a bit at odds with the way things are going now and also with the line the RIVM is proposing. Can the Minister not necessarily explain in a letter what the policy is if we were to have to include more patients in hospital isolation? So what's the line going to be? Are we going to identify one hospital per region where these people are going? Will the emergency hospital in Utrecht be used? Or is it just that in all the hospitals in our country we are going to take care of small groups of patients in isolation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u143	I just said that the emphasis is on home isolation. In addition, additional hospital capacity is available. It is widely available about the Netherlands. We also want to use that capacity, so in multiple hospitals. When the follow-up phase arrives, I will be advised again by the experts on what follow-up step we should take.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u144	However, I would like to have a little more information by letter on how this is going to look exactly and what the possible risks are if we continue as we are doing now, because we see almost every day that there is a hospital where a ward has to close because there is a risk of infection. I think we should avoid that, so I would like more information on that. Then there's my second question. This is about the financial support that hospitals may need if they are in danger of getting into trouble because of the virus. I heard this afternoon that the European Central Bank is going to make money available to small and medium-sized enterprises. The coalition has proposed measures to support aviation, if necessary. However, I can assume that we also do not abandon healthcare providers and hospitals, and that, if they come into financial difficulties because they now have to incur much more costs, for example because funds have become much more expensive and because they have to provide much more extra care, the Minister is going to ensure that they get the funding they need at all times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u145	I have said that I will take stock of this. At present, the emphasis is on taking measures. I understand very well that extras are required there. We shall therefore take stock of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u146	So the Minister will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u147	Yes, but I do think that 'taking stock' is quite different from the guarantees that the coalition is demanding for aviation. I think that is quite different from the ECB's communication that it is going to clear a few billion so that small and medium-sized enterprises do not break up. And now the Minister comes with such an economical remark: 'Then I'm going to take stock'. I just want to hear from him that hospitals in our country are not going to get into financial trouble because of this virus. I really think he should give that guarantee today, also in order to prevent hospitals from doing things that they should be doing in the future because of the finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u148	I'm not making an economical remark. I'm talking about first things first. In good Dutch: first do what is needed now. That is to take measures to contain the outbreak of the corona virus in the Netherlands. I can see very well that there is also a financial component to this, but I am just waiting for the measures to be taken in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u149	I'm just chewing on the answer I got to my question about the ic's, because the answer I got is about the ic-capacity for corona patients, which would be enough. But that wasn't really what I meant by my question. I was concerned that, in addition to the people who have been in contact with a risk area, we have experienced in the last week and a half that people who were already on an ic were found to be infected. Those are the most vulnerable patients. Here come people who just had surgery or whatever. There are also specialist experts there. So we have to protect our ic's at all, I think. That was the essence of my question: are there any additional measures needed there, regardless of the capacity for corona patients?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u150	Sure. Of course, we have to keep those care professionals on our feet. I might say that a little too homely, but every hospital takes its own measures. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u151	For example, can standard testing of people coming to the ic, regardless of their exact background or condition, be part of those measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u152	Here we come on hospital packages. I really need to leave that at hospitals. I would like to go back to that in writing. But take it from me that all those hospital directors at the moment, based on the information they read in the newspaper and in the Inf@ct messages, and also on their own expertise and the conversations they have in their homes, make sure that they take the right measures to protect all healthcare personnel in their hospitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u153	I suggest that you speed up a bit, because a lot has been interrupted and a lot of questions have been asked in between. Are you leaving? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u154	I'd like to stay for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u155	I'd be fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u156	I want to talk about the block of personal protective equipment and then the block of international protection. Then we're pretty much there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u157	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u158	So first, the tip of the mouth caps. I think I have taken this up with my previous remark. In the debate, it was asked as a government to provide insight into the availability of mouth caps. It's about masks that are needed for care personnel. This inventory will therefore be carried out by region, ultimately by ROAZ region. We are working with the private entrepreneurs, the manufacturers, really large parties, to ensure that distribution and supply ensure that there are at several times mouth caps and other personal protective equipment available to those parties that are most in need. I called you those parties. That measure operates on a voluntary basis, but these agreements are to be made up for with the parties. I have informed you that market players are also prepared to jump over their shadows. It has been asked: is it possible to claim masks, as in the French situation? Yes, there is that possibility, albeit in theory. Because other countries have producers of masks. As I understand it, the Netherlands does not. A claim based on the Ordering Act therefore offers little relief in the Netherlands. I have indicated how I intend to organise this in the Netherlands. In addition, we can say that various contacts in the Ministry are now receiving reports from people who say: I can still help you with personal protective equipment. Of course, we're all running those tracks for our country. Furthermore, the issue of joint procurement will certainly be raised in Brussels tomorrow. But that is something for the longer term; that will not be organised tomorrow. I would like to point out that it is very good that we are making those mouth caps really available to those caregivers who need them very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u159	Have you answered all the questions that relate to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u160	No, I have a few more questions about that. Am I going to follow the French step when it comes to advancing mouth caps? No, I'm not gonna do that. Are you going to address France tomorrow in Brussels? Yeah, I'm gonna do that. Are gamma masks helping? No, they don't work for coronavirus purposes. RIVM has told you that before. I have indicated that we are setting up a structure to ensure that personal protective equipment is available in the region, especially for the parties most in need, including hospitals, ambulances and general practitioners. I have two more questions in this block. One: what is the Minister going to do to address the shortage of raw materials for medicines? I am making an inventory of whether there are any concrete indications of drug shortages due to the presence of the coronavirus. That is not the case at the moment. If that doesn't work out, I'll let you know. I said that for the longer term I would like to go to some sort of iron stock in the Netherlands. We all need to organize that even further. That dependence on China is stabbing several of you in the Chamber, and so is me, like a bone in the throat. So we're trying to reduce that dependency. We do that in a European context. Mrs Van den Berg asked: is the calculation of usury prices for products to be labeled as a hand gel as an economic crime? I'm gonna find out. I have to ask Justice and EZK about that. I'll get back to you on that. Mr President, the subject of personal protective equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u161	I would like to propose, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u162	Very briefly. I understand that the Minister says: if we don't have factories here, we don't have producers of mouth caps, I can't claim that. But we were talking about a general measure, namely that other resources can be advanced in companies, but also that the Minister can simply force one region to transfer it to another region. So if one gets out of it, fine. But if it is not, does the Minister have sufficient legal means to take action?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u163	The answer may also be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u164	That's a good point. I missed that. The regional picture of where the stocks are at present and where they are most needed is indeed also taken into account in the regional exchange and the distribution of these available resources. At present, there is a great willingness to share this problem with each other in the region. I am also kept informed of this in order to see whether further action is needed from this side. But everything that comes about with good agreements in the region itself carries the best. I think that's the hardest part. We're working on that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u165	I agree. But here's what's important. Instead of 82, we'll have 164 tomorrow, to name but a few. So the tension can also increase. Does the Minister have sufficient legal resources at the moment? Otherwise, the CDA would like to ensure that the minister gets it and that he doesn't have to ask for it once the need is up to the man.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u166	Based on the indication as A disease, I think I have sufficient measures available.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u167	Mr Veldman, a brief question as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u168	My question is additional to that. I would like to know what measures will be taken. It is very good if voluntary agreements can be made in the Netherlands between the people who need them and the industry. It is also very good to exchange between regions. But the situation may arise that stocks are really out of stock. I understand that the Minister says that this French measure cannot be done, because we do not have any producers here. But at the same time yesterday I saw reports in Germany that they have declared an export ban on, among other things, mouth caps. It will be a bit difficult if we work in this way in Europe. What specific measures does the Minister consider to be different from saying: do I have them? Then I'd like to know which one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u169	I had a first conversation with the manufacturers just yesterday. They all see a lot in continuing their contractual agreements. International parties also feel obliged to comply with the agreements. With a ROAZ intervention, you break into it. Then parties have to jump over their own shadow. I will take a look at what legal measures I have in addition to the Enforcement Act, and I will come back to you more precisely. I'll do that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u170	Mr Hijink, a brief question as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u171	It's nice to have these proposals straightened out. I would also like to know whether there is a measure to prevent smart intermediaries from being called 'criminals' who buy products and resell them for a lot of money. Are we gonna cut those lines, too? The second question is whether we forget the dentists. They don't need those products because of the spread of the corona virus, they just need to do their job. They are no longer supplied with mouth caps. Are they going to be taken, too? I think that's a very important one. And I had another question, Mr. Chairman, but it will be here shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u172	You forgot?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u173	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u174	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u175	Let's talk about the interrogation. That point was raised yesterday by the suppliers. That point is seen by all parties. The number of parties working in this business is not that large and one knows each other well. Everyone is very alert to intermediaries and at usury prices. The answer to that question is therefore in the affirmative. One mouth cap is not the other. Therefore, for this debate, I would like to emphasise that it is about mouth caps that are needed for care professionals dealing with patients wearing the coronavirus. In addition, there are other types of mouth caps. Yesterday, among other things, the profession of dentists was appointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u176	I can therefore assume that they too will be helped to obtain adequate protective measures. I'm assuming the Minister's agreed to do so now. If that's not the case, I'd like to hear it. My third question, which I had not forgotten, is the following. If we find that there is a lack of material and we may get an export ban in Germany and other countries, is the Minister prepared to see to what extent production can be started in the Netherlands itself by companies that are currently producing similar products? Does he want to see if he can deliver them in the short term, if that's necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u177	I'm at the stage of making appointments for the here and now. You are already a few steps ahead. Thought doesn't stop, but I'm now in the process of taking practical measures for the caregivers who are in contact with corona patients. After that, I will also look at the profession of dentists and at measures further away. But there is so much work that I really have to limit myself to this first, namely making good regional agreements, where on the one hand the caregivers are well addressed and on the other hand the available mouth caps end up with the right parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u178	The Minister has told us a lot about the masks and other protective agents. Where exactly is coordination in terms of availability and distribution? Is it with the ROAZs? Does he share the view of the National Family Doctors Association in particular that there is also a need for national coordination?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u179	You can say that the ROAZs take stock of that by region. Who do that? That's what the DPGs do. I am keeping an eye on this because the regions are in good contact with each other and also with me. I can therefore see what progress has been made on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u180	I assume the Minister also speaks regularly with the National General Medical Association. I hear from them the plea for national coordination. I don't know exactly where that came from. I ask the Minister to discuss this with them, because I hear from the general practitioners that there are problems there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u181	I spoke to the National General Medical Association yesterday. At that time they did not mention that point of national coordination in their regime. Should the question arise again, I will say that they will be included in that ROAZ ring. It's not just about the hospitals. It is also about the general practitioners, as well as other care parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u182	I will be very brief, Mr President. Is the Minister now 100% sure that there is no shortage of general practitioners, general practitioners or hospitals at all? Are you 100% sure about that? Because we'll get those messages. I am very curious whether that is out of date or whether you can give the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u183	That inventory is done in the ROAZ region. In doing so, it is important that the various parties are properly addressed. That's happening right now. We will see how large the stock per region is and where the problem of redistribution is at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u184	I'm glad to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u185	I think we need to get to a conclusion. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u186	For this cube it is, Mr. Chairman, but of course we have two more cubes. We still have the map internationally, although it's not big. In addition, I will speed up the remaining questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u187	That's always good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u188	I'm not leaving. I'm just gonna get another pile.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u189	I'll be watching you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u190	Mrs van den Berg asked why there is no common approach for people travelling in Europe. Yes, in the end travel advice is given from country to country, because public health care is also a responsibility from country to country. On the one hand, I strongly support the idea that we should jointly define definitions in Europe and ensure the exchange of information, which we have previously exchanged. In particular, the issue of good information exchange will again be addressed in EPSCO tomorrow. But there must also be the freedom to take independent measures as a country. I have given you one of the examples. This is about tightening up the travel advice for northern Italy. Then there is the question of whether I am prepared to reduce the number of travellers and travel to areas at risk. That is exactly what the information, the travel advice, of Foreign Affairs is about. There are several parties involved. Our RIVM is also hooked. Mr Jansen spoke about the fact that other countries were taking firmer measures and we were not. I dare to doubt that. In other words, I disagree. I mentioned the example of northern Italy with the enhanced travel advice. That made us one of the first. Then there is a question of another order, about the difference between the measure in the Netherlands and that just across the border. That was a question from Mrs Ploumen. There is a difference at the stage between the situation in the Netherlands, in this case South Limburg, and the situation just across the border in Germany. The region in Germany has moved from the phase of containment to the next phase. So we are not that far in the Netherlands, but we want to do our utmost to contain the virus. You can see that in a difference in appointments. Then there's the exchange of information. When will the next EPSCO meeting take place? That's tomorrow. What's on the agenda? These are, in any case, the exchange of information and the availability of protective equipment. Then Bruins will tell Macron once more that he doesn't agree with him. Mrs. Diertens has asked about the corona response team. This is part of an international body of political crisis response. That is one of many consultative bodies. I do not want to fail anyone, but I think we should concentrate on RIVM and the European counterpart to RIVM, the ECDC. Mr Veldman asked what information I could share from talks with the EU Commissioner about bringing parts of the production of medicines back to Europe, in order to reduce China's dependence. In my discussions with Mrs Kyriakides, I discussed the fact that, irrespective of the crisis, the Commission is going to collect information on drug shortages. On this basis, it will be examined to what extent and for what raw materials or for which medicines it is desirable to increase production capacity within the EU. You can rest assured that the Netherlands will then be an active party to follow that and to define measures. If we're too dependent on drugs, Mr. Hiddema asked. I do believe that we are too dependent on medicines coming from far-off production countries. I replied to that. How was the consultation with other countries on treatments, asked Mrs Sazias. At world level, the World Health Organisation has set up an expert group to do so. This can also provide us with measures based on these international insights. Mrs Sazias mentioned the example of chloroquine. What about communication with the BES and cooperation with the Kingdom countries in the Caribbean? In recent weeks, RIVM has been in daily contact with public health services through the so-called I&HR network, in which the four Kingdom countries and the three islands of the Caribbean Netherlands participate, in order to take the necessary preparatory measures. That I&HR network is a structure through which recommendations and measures are communicated. Currently there are no infections on the BES islands, but there is an infection on the French part of Saint Martin. The public health services on the islands are themselves responsible for the implementation. In abundance: the islands of Caribbean Netherlands, Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba, fall within the Dutch regulations and the Dutch coronavirus approach. The countries of the Kingdom, Curaçao, Aruba and Sint-Maarten, are themselves responsible for the approach, but may request assistance from the Netherlands if they wish. At the moment, there is such a request from Saint Martin. In addition, a consultation with the hospitals in Curaçao, Aruba, Bonaire and Sint-Maarten will be held shortly to discuss how we can help each other if there are capacity problems with large-scale infections. Then there is Mrs Ploumen's last question: can the Minister explain the reasons for the travel advice? You know that the State Department is responsible for the travel advice. I know that they have several points to check on before a travel advice is amended. This is done on the basis of objective information from, for example, intelligence services, local authorities, other EU countries and other ministries, as well as RIVM. Mr President, that is the one-after-last block, which is about international.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u191	A brief question from Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u192	Two questions. All the way back to the beginning of the Minister's speech. He then addressed the question we had asked about a single European policy. We were not talking about a single European policy within the countries of the European Union, but about a single European policy vis-à-vis the countries outside the European Union. I have not yet received a clear answer from the Minister. My second question concerns travel advice. These are decided by the Foreign Office and RIVM is one of the many advisers. Is that the right construction, because RIVM is ultimately responsible for controlling the virus? Why shouldn't that be leading in there? We also hear at Schiphol Airport, which also passed by the fact that much less information is given than other countries do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u193	This is actually a question for the State Department. I think it is important for health information to be included in such travel advice. That's why I'm glad RIVM has a stake in that. That's what I can say about it. I really need to leave the rest to the State Department. Then there is European policy. For this purpose, RIVM and his colleagues are sought to coordinate at European level. On the basis of this link, a closer understanding can be provided. That is what I can say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u194	Then I'm going to see Mr. Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u195	On flying from countries where there are large fireplaces of the virus, I will return in second term. I'm curious about the following. The Minister says that we are not out of step with regard to other countries in Europe, but in England, closing schools is at number 2 in the action plan. 120 schools are closed in France. In northern Italy, all schools and universities are closed until mid-March. Measures have been taken in Switzerland. Events are shut down; football competitions without an audience and that sort of thing. I agree with you that public life must go on, but when will this kind of thing come to our attention?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u196	I said at the beginning of my speech that we define our actions on the basis of the insights of experts from RIVM and the adjacent organisations, united in OMT and WHO. This means that we are focusing our policies on this. To all the questions why countries A, B or C do this and we D, the answer is always: because we rely on our information, our experts. That's one. Two, we always take appropriate measures that suit the situation in the Netherlands. And three, I did not say that we do not want to run out of Europe. I have given the example of Northern Italy, on the enhanced travel advice, which we are certainly moving out of Europe's path. I can defend that very well in Europe tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u197	I note that we do not agree. I will return to it in second term too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u198	Unfortunately, the virus does not comply with national borders, hence my question about the European response team. I can imagine that your focus at the moment is very much on the Netherlands, to do the right thing there. A lot of respect for that, too. But I do wonder what you will bring yourself to that Health Council meeting tomorrow, based on the experience you have now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u199	Tomorrow it will be mainly about exchanging information. I will tell colleagues, and they tell me, what developments have taken place over the last period. Then it's about the availability of those protective equipment. I believe that the joint preparation of such a tender is being discussed in Europe in particular. I will make it a point that I do not think it is a good decision for France, for example, to go for masks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u200	This is a lot of reactions to what we have discussed in this debate. But do you also have things that you want to put on the table, on the basis of the experience you have now gained in managing this process, which may also be important for the European approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u201	The points I mentioned to you are the ones I have in mind, because I expect them to be on tomorrow's agenda anyway. I must tell you quite frankly that I will look at what else is on the agenda after this debate and whether I have any additional input.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u202	Another country we have mentioned a few times is Germany. There it is literally mandatory to stay at home when you have come into contact with a corona patient. I come back to this again and again, because I still think it's special that RIVM and the GGD here in the Netherlands don't even advise to stay at home and so just let people go to work. You say you will be advised by the experts in this matter. But then I wonder why the experts in Germany give a different advice than the experts in the Netherlands. Maybe you can take that with you tomorrow. Then how can we streamline that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u203	We rely on our experts. We don't have any patients in the border area. When we had 38 patients, you could see on the card that there were no patients in Limburg. There were patients in Germany. This means that Germany is taking other measures. I have just explained to you that it is at a different stage in the growth of the outbreak of the corona virus from the Netherlands. That difference in the approach between Germany and the Netherlands is based on the number of patients and the information from the German RIVM and the Dutch RIVM.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u204	I understood that information, but it seems to us to be so unfortunate that preventive measures are not already being taken, even though we are at a different stage. The prevention measure is then to at least advise people who have come into contact with a patient with the coronavirus to stay at home. It is a purely preventive measure. I do not understand why this prevention measure could not take place in the Netherlands at this stage if it prevented people from joining.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u205	We have further measures if there are areas of risk. That is not the case in Germany. Prevention measures that can be taken in any case are: washing hands, not rubbing eyes, sneeze in the elbow, etc.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u206	A short question about the border region. I understand that Germany is at another stage of the outbreak, a stage in which we do not hope to arrive. But for the people in the border area it's just their neighbor, I'll say, literally sometimes just across the street. Is there more intensive contact, for example, between the health authorities of the German and Dutch border regions? Well, I think that's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u207	Yes, there is very intensive contact between the two regions. That has also led to a number of smaller activities, if I may put it this way, being deleted in the Netherlands. So that's on the Dutch side of the border. The reason for this is precisely that contact with the German colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u208	Then I suggest you answer the last, brief questions of Members of Parliament. Can we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u209	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u210	And the questions that have been answered by interruption do not need to be repeated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u211	No, I'm gonna do the best I can for that. I think it's okay if I go into the members of Vindicat. There is good consultation between the GGD in the north of the country and the student association Vindicat. It has been explained what the risks to members are currently. So it is the members who are skiing there in northern Italy. It's good to know the following. The students have been high up in the mountains, in separate hotels. They are carried in separate buses, and if there are sick, they are transported separately. At home, there is a letter with instructions from the GGD on how to prevent spread, how students should monitor their health and how to act when developing symptoms or minor phenomena. That means staying at home with coughing and calling the GP if there's a fever. The students can come back, just like all the other Dutch who are in Northern Italy. There are no restrictions on the return from northern Italy. These are the same measures as those we have discussed before for all those who come back from Northern Italy. That's the point, Mr. Chairman. Then I'll browse through my pile of questions. Mrs Sazias has asked how intensive the testing is. Maybe I can tell you how that goes in practice. The treating physician warns the GD. When people get home, the G.D.D. will come and take a sample. When people are in the hospital, the doctor microbiologist organizes it. The collection of a sample goes with a nose and throat cloth. That's a wimp on a stick. Take-off sets are in stock at the GGD. They can also be ordered from RIVM. Once laboratory results are known, they will be reported back. That process takes about 24 hours. It will be examined whether this can be made much shorter, up to about 6 hours. So there are a lot of people involved in such a test. It is therefore important to distribute the workload properly and to ensure that there is sufficient human capacity. Mrs Dik-Faber asked: can children or not be infected with the corona virus? It looks at whether there really is a difference between children and adults. It also looks at what is causing this. It is difficult to express an opinion on this at the beginning of an outbreak, but it will certainly be further investigated. Then I guess I've had the most important questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u212	Okay, then I'll go to Mr. Jansen for a quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u213	Yeah, about the 900 students from Vindicat. The Minister states: separate hotels and separate buses, and if there is any contamination, they are transported separately. Can the Minister indicate if there is any suspicion at the moment? Or is it just a precaution? Because they're all going to be in some buses right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u214	This is the information I have at my disposal. I'm not going to speculate about the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u215	Then I'm assuming it's a precaution. And then I hope that will work out, because if all these people leave on the bus and something happens along the way, then we still have a problem, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u216	I had asked another question about the balancing framework for events.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u217	Yeah, sorry. I'm watching that with the Minister of Justice. How can we support presidents of security regions in decisions they have to take in that respect? That's a work in progress. We'll try to get that done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u218	Can what can be shared with information be included in the letter announced by the Minister, in which he would come back on a number of points? That can be helpful for others, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u219	Sure. At least I'll name that subject. Whether it's finished, I don't know, but that's definitely going to be covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u220	This would also be a useful addition to the website. There are a lot of valuables on it, but when it comes to events, organisations ask themselves what they are wise about from their own responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u221	Yeah, I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u222	There are already several companies experiencing a huge impact of the coronavirus, just because they get fewer customers. That is why we have asked for part-time work or a reduction in working hours or whatever you want to call it. I thought I hadn't heard from the minister about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u223	No, you're right. But I thought, I've been talking for so long...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u224	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u225	... but indeed, the answer to the question of part-time unemployment must come from the Social Affairs colleague. I'll get an answer to that question. I don't have that ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u226	Then the Minister will return to that in writing, if I may explain it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u227	I may have missed it, but I had asked another question about the infrastructure: the GDs and the possible cuts in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u228	I know this subject in a more political context. Right now, I'm experiencing a very different attitude from the GD's. They're all here. I'm saying it's a little too plastic. I'm saying it's really hard at work. I have to come back to that point later. This also fits in with the point of 'taking stock in the financial sense'. I cannot comment on the substance of the matter now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u229	I think I still miss the answer to two questions. A question was about the advice of the GGD to, at the moment you have the corona virus, tell no one, and even impose an obligation not to tell anyone. That's one of the stories I hear. I look forward to the Minister's response to this. A second question is how things are going at the moment with LNV's colleague regarding the cause of the coronavirus. That is important for us to be able to move forward with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u230	The last question first: I still have to have that conversation. We talked about this last month in the other AO. So that conversation will be held, but I am now concentrating on measures that are part of the outbreak of the corona virus in the Netherlands. Finally, the point of the GGD: don't tell anyone. I don't understand where that comes from, but it certainly isn't part of the Inf@ct messages I've seen from the RIVM. It seems to me very good and logical that you let that, of your own free will and with regard to how you think about it, know to your environment. Mr. Chairman. It has taken a while, but I hope that I have answered the questions with pleasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u231	I hope so, too. And if I hadn't, I'd have heard it from the MPs. Thank you for answering the questions in the first term. Before we proceed to the second deadline, I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u232	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the spread of the coronavirus. We need the second term of office. Mr Hijink has the floor as the first speaker to speak on behalf of the Socialist Party. The minister is on his way, so Mr. Hijink may walk to the cathedral. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive explanation. I was not entirely satisfied on all subjects. Unfortunately, I only have two minutes, and I have three motions to file, so I'd like to file the motions right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that protective means should first and always be available to the healthcare sector;]] [[Whereas these protective measures are important not only in the fight against the corona virus but also in regular care, such as oral care and nursing care;]] [[calls on the Government in the coordination and distribution of protective equipment to ensure delivery to healthcare providers involved in the protection against the coronavirus but also to provide sufficient resources to enable regular dental and nursing care, for example, to continue,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that India, as the largest producer of generic medicines, has restricted the export of important components of medicines as a result of the coronavirus;]] [[noting that this is because the supply of Chinese raw materials has been stopped;]] [[noting that if this situation continues, this could have a major impact on drug stocks;]] [[calls on the cabinet to draw up an emergency scenario in the event of drug shortages,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the coronavirus leads to a high level of additional costs for hospitals;]] [[Whereas hospitals should not be in financial difficulties due to the problem of corona or be allowed to go bankrupt;]] [[points out that, in consultation with the health insurers, the Cabinet should take appropriate measures to prevent hospitals from entering liquidity problems or getting worse,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-105]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-106]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-107]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u235	Thank you. Mr Jansen has the floor on behalf of the Freedom Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u236	Mr. Chairman. The question is who decides here, the experts or the minister. For now, we think the experts. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several countries have issued a flight ban for flights from areas where the corona virus has been broken out;]] [[believes that in the Netherlands, too, more proactive action should be taken against the coronavirus in order to prevent the spread of infections;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit flights from large risk areas and to strongly advise against travelling to these risk areas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people returning from regions where the corona virus has broken out are not standard tested or quarantined;]] [[Considers that this may allow for the spread of corona virus infections;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a reporting obligation for anyone returning from a large risk area where the corona virus has broken out and to keep them quarantined for 14 days in regional reception sites,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that clear information and communication on the coronavirus, including worst case scenarios, will benefit citizens;]] [[calls on the Government to urgently develop and make public several scenarios with corresponding roadmap and entry into force,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jansen and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-108]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jansen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-109]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jansen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-110]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u237	Mr. Chairman. As I said at the beginning: who determines the policy here? It seems as if the Minister is mainly guided by the experts, but does not actually take any initiative to change that. We asked you to take on the role of director. In fact, the question is: is the Minister in any way in control? I have great doubts about that. I'm very sorry about that. I certainly give this minister a chance, but he makes it very difficult for me to trust in his right approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u238	There is an interruption by Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u239	Once again, I am annoyed by Mr Jansen's position. He states that he sees that the minister is mainly guided by the experts. By whom else should the Minister be guided than by experts? Should he be guided by the ignorant? Should he be guided by people who shout anything, such as Mr Jansen, if I hear the motions correctly? By whom else should the Minister be guided but by experts?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u240	Mr Jansen is not just shouting. Mr Jansen represents the opinion of the PVV, which is based on the facts that lie before us. What we see is that every time the Minister says: we are led by the experts, the experts advise us to take the next steps. It is a politician who ultimately decides to take some steps that are good for our people, which are good for our people, even if that means, as I said in my first term, that you have to take unpopular measures. Sometimes it's better to see that in countries around us, and that's what you can see from Trump in America to take steps that the experts might say: we don't think they're needed at the moment. Then the Minister can say: I, as a minister, may think it necessary, because I want to ensure that all people in the Netherlands have the maximum protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u241	Mr. Veldman, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u242	It's a beautiful wiggle, but I think it's usually the other way around: that drivers sometimes think about a far-reaching advice from an expert, an expert, because they're afraid of reactions. What Mr Jansen is doing now is turning it around. I would like to call on Mr Jansen to remain sensible, to remain calm and to listen to the experts and experts we have in the Netherlands, and not to set a course of their own, sidelined course with a great deal of knowledge, because I do not see the goal. I really regret this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u243	I believe that the only sensible course that is being taken here today is that of the PVV. The VVD is completely invisible, protects its own minister and actually has no opinion of its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u244	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to say that this is making me very much worse. In fact, my question to Mr Jansen is: who would know more about the coronavirus, Mr Jansen or the World Health Organization?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u245	The PVV has its opinion on the subject of coronavirus. We're looking at developments. We look at developments in the Netherlands and we look at developments abroad. We are looking at the measures and we see that we, the Netherlands, are not leading the way. Despite what the Minister says, we're behind. We walk behind and respond only to every event, without actively thinking for ourselves. Let's get ahead of ourselves. Let's communicate to people what steps we're going to take and why. It just doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u246	Finalizing, Mrs. Thick-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u247	Then I do not know where Mr Jansen has been present today, because I think we have had a debate and we have had a detailed exchange of views with the Minister on the opinions of the experts and on the steps that may need to be taken. We all received letters. There's an attachment to the Outbreak Management Team. I ask my question again, because it has not been answered. Who's the smartest guy here? Who has the most knowledge of a virus like the corona virus, Mr. Jansen or the World Health Organization? I think I should just answer the question: the World Health Organisation has a little more sense of the matter. Let us follow their expertise and not that of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u248	It's not about who has more knowledge at all. It's about who ultimately decides here. Politics decides, and we, as PVV, think it is right to use these three motions to get the Minister on his way again. The Chamber would do well to simply support these motions, because then we will also show our people: we stand up for you, we stand up for your health.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u249	I think Mr Veldman wants to make a personal statement. That must really be a personal fact, because it is often used to have a substantive discussion again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u250	Mr. Chairman. I won't start the substantive discussion, because I don't think that's as good as possible with Mr. Jansen. I am accused of not finding anything here today and I do not think it is true. In my view, I have made it very clear that I agree with the line taken by the Minister on the basis of expert advice and that we are now in a phase where it is at stake. So we are not in a phase of major cancellation of events, closing of schools, closing of stations and closing of stations, I know a lot more. Is it out of the question that we do that? No, that's not out of the question. That is also what I said today. If the phase comes when that is necessary, when draconian measures are needed, then it will have to be done. Only that is not the case now. It would be nice if Mr Jansen would join the experts who say that this is not necessary now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u251	Finally, in the direction of Mr Veldman, Mr Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u252	It would be nice if the VVD supported our motion, because then she would show that she really means it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u253	I have already indicated this morning that I find the way in which the PVV talks about our experts and experts offensive. The Dutch virologists are leading in the world. Does the PVV agree with the CDA that the task of the Chamber is not to sit in the chair of doctors and experts and the RIVM, but to ensure that the Minister has sufficient resources and power to take measures to advise him? If we think that things are not clear whether we want more explanation, we ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u254	We are sitting here as PVV room members to represent the people. That's what we do. We are helping the Minister if necessary to take a step in the right direction. That's what we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u255	Mrs Van den Berg, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u256	I don't hear a response. Mr Jansen seems to think he has more knowledge than RIVM, virologists, doctors and so on. But I don't think we're gonna get out of that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u257	I have already dealt with this this morning in the case of interruptions at my first term. I have made it very clear that we greatly appreciate the expertise and commitment of the experts, but that it is ultimately the politics that is about what we are doing. We're politics. We decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u258	I think this discussion is going a very strange way. I would not cast any doubt on how much positive commitment and how much strength scientists, experts and healthcare providers are working to contain this virus in a very responsible way for all Dutch people who are currently worried. I do not think it is right for you to disqualify the way those processes are going. We are well informed. There are really things that can be improved, but in such a crisis situation there will always be things that are very easy to say afterwards that we could have done differently and so on. I really want to distance myself from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u259	The PVV put it very clearly this morning in its first term. I can almost quote it. We were talking about the heroes who are currently working in care, who have worked very hard over the past period and who still do so every second, every day. In my opinion, this shows how we, the PVV, look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u260	Thank you for your second term, too. Mrs Van den Berg has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u261	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for all the answers and for the commitment that he will come back to tackling usury prices and the people who want to get out of this, and to ask whether he himself has sufficient resources to make progress or give a clue as to materials and tools, if necessary. I have just said that we think it is important that there should be a little more clarification if there is some ambiguity. We have said that many companies already notice the impact of the coronavirus. Hence the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that by far the vast majority of infections have been caused by people who have been very recently in the heart of infections;]] [[Whereas by reducing the number of travellers and by reducing the risk behaviour of returning travellers, the risk of further contamination may be reduced;]] [[Whereas it is now unclear why the Netherlands does not take certain travel measures, such as the adaptation of visa policy, travel bans to areas at risk and the screening of air passengers;]] [[calls on the Government to explain why additional travel measures are or are not being taken;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber within one week,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas companies affected by an "extraordinary event" such as the coronavirus may apply for a reduction in working hours in order not to have to fire staff;]] [[Whereas, if the impact of the virus outbreak continues to increase, additional, more cyclical measures are needed to cope with economic shocks in the longer term and to enable companies to regroup;]] [[Whereas there are companies already in need of instruments such as an extension of working time or part-time work due to the corona virus;]] [[calls on the Government to make suitable instruments, such as part-time work or an extension of the reduction of working time, available as soon as possible, in consultation with the social partners, including clear conditions, so that they can be activated at any time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-111]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berg and Mr Palland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-112]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u262	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the prevention of the spread of the coronavirus, health authorities should monitor the balance between preventing unrest on the one hand and effectively reducing the virus on the other. We too would like to express our thanks to all those who are making a huge contribution to this at the moment. However, the Animal Party still has the idea that we are still doing too little about this prevention and that we are sticking too much to certain protocols and phases in which we would be sitting. In addition, we are, of course, and continue to support the fact that medical data is private. It's important that people remain in charge of what they tell who. But the GGD has an important role to play in protecting the environment of corona patients. In that context, the advice they have given is really strange, as far as we are concerned, namely: "Keep it still. You don't have to tell the people you've been in touch with. You may, but you don't have to." What would you do if you heard that? You take the advice of an expert seriously. As far as we are concerned, the advice of the Health Service must be aimed at prevention. There should be an advice to keep things quiet at all as far as we are concerned. I sincerely hope that this kind of advice will not be given from now on. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Dutch corona patients are told that they do not need to inform their contacts;]] [[Whereas these contacts are also not advised to stay at home and are not being tested;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with RIVM and GGD, to examine as soon as possible whether these opinions should be strengthened as part of the prevention of the spread of the virus,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Esch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-113]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u263	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u264	Thank you for your input. Mr Renkema has the floor on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u265	Thank you, Mr President. I finished my input in the first term with the statement that we have to keep our heads cool, but the heart warm. I have to say that the shock is now that we have heard today that the number of people infected with the coronavirus has risen to 82. From this place, I wish everyone who is infected, much better and a full recovery. I would also like to wish all researchers, scientists, lab workers and healthcare professionals of RIVM, the GGD and all hospitals every success in their important work. They are currently doing their utmost and deserve thanks and appreciation. However, I am not entirely reassured that these 25 GGD regions can handle it all. Several regions have experienced austerity or capacity constraints in recent years, leaving only a few infectious diseases and nurses active in some areas. I have a motion on that and it also looks forward to the future. The virus will undoubtedly be less active in the coming summer, but there will be another autumn and winter, and in the future a new virus may follow. Our basic infrastructure must therefore be good. I think we should take stock of this in the coming months. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several municipalities have cut down on the Municipal Health Service (GGD) over the last decade;]] [[Whereas this means that capacity is limited for source and contact research and testing in infectious diseases such as coronavirus;]] [[Calls on the Government to conduct independent external investigations to ensure that the Municipal Health Services are adequately equipped for their legal work in all 25 GGD regions;]] [[also requests that the results of this study be shared with the Chamber before 1 September of this year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-114]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u266	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for the detailed answer to all the questions that have been asked. The debate has also come to an end. That is not surprising on this important subject. However, this means that I will unfortunately have to leave the sitting shortly, but of course I will read in the report how the deliberations have continued. I'd like to file a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a lot of information on the coronavirus is provided from different sources;]] [[Whereas unambiguous information on the coronavirus, the measures taken or to be taken and the justification for such action by the public authorities is therefore of great importance;]] [[Whereas the provision of information from the public authorities, such as press conferences and information provided by the RIVM and the GGDs, should be comprehensible and accessible to all citizens;]] [[calls on the Government to make the provision of information from the public authorities, RIVM and GGDs on the coronavirus and the measures taken, unambiguous, comprehensible and accessible to all inhabitants of the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Diertens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-115]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u267	Mr. Chairman. We also exchanged in the debate that the Minister had a lot of discussions. We've had an interrupting debate about the conversation he's having with the National General Medical Association. I know the Minister is also speaking with the ROAZ. Tomorrow he will have another conference with his European colleagues. My question to the Minister is whether he would like to keep the Chamber regularly informed of all the discussions he is having so that we can answer questions from interested citizens and properly fulfil our role as a representative of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his clear answer. I would like to make three brief points. First of all, I do not wish to table a motion because I have received a clear commitment on the policy framework for events. We will be further informed about this. I'd like to wait and see. In view of the increase in the number of infections, I hope that this can also provide more clarity quickly. Secondly, I have an outstanding question about the evaluation. I assume that in due course the approach will also be looked back at, both on the administrative approach and on the medical approach. But I'd still like to hear that from the Minister. I think that we should look at and focus on what measures are needed to further contain the virus and, if necessary, those stages which hopefully will not follow afterwards. Finally, there was a discussion on the role of experts. I too find the debate on this interesting. Frankly, I felt that I was somewhere in the middle of the extremes at that point: take experts seriously, especially when it comes to strictly medical information, but on the point of taking measures, it is also a political and administrative weighting, which we must always bear in mind. You can be a little more careful, a little less far-reaching or a little more farther in that. Of course, the advice of experts weighs heavily on this, but it remains a self-contained political-administrative consideration. We will also assess this further, but I would also like to wish the Minister a great deal of wisdom in further fulfilling that important responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u269	Thank you for your input. I call Mr Veldman on behalf of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his clear answer to all the questions raised by all my fellow Members. I do not have a motion on the concern I have expressed about the availability of aids, including mouth caps. However, I would like to see a quick review of the additional measures that the Minister can take when an acute deficit is greater than some are currently foreseen. Mr. Chairman. There are now 82 infected people in the Netherlands. That's almost a double. I can see that the same is the case in Belgium: they have gone from 23 to 50. That is worrying, as the 38 were already worrying, but I keep saying: let us keep our peace and let us set our sights on what experts and experts say. Of course, it's not new what the G.D.D. is doing. We didn't just start fighting an infectious disease. Take something like tuberculosis. We've known that for a long time. Fortunately, we hardly remember that in the Netherlands, because there are hardly any people who are infected with TB, while sometimes people with TB from outside the Netherlands still come in. Then GGDs deal adequately and well with that. I am confident that this is happening at the moment. I am confident that the advice given to the Minister is adequate and sound. And I am also confident that the Minister will make his own considerations and that if he thinks he should take further action, he will take them. In my view, it is important that the Minister communicates clearly and clearly, informs the Chamber in good time, but also, above all, distributes the information to the outside world, so that the Dutch know where they stand and we do not panic. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u271	Thank you, too. I now give the floor to Mrs Diertens, on behalf of the Democrats 66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u272	Thank you for the comprehensive answer, the commitment shown by the Minister and the decisions he makes. It's not a sinewar we stand for. Communication in this situation is extremely important, including for people with disabilities. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas information on the corona virus should be as accessible as possible to as many people as possible;]] [[calls on the government to provide for the need to receive unambiguous information from the government at a fixed time and through multiple channels, including at least TV and radio,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Diertens, Mr Van den Berg, Mr Sazias, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-116]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u273	Finally. The virus doesn't stick to borders. D66 therefore considers European cooperation to be very important in this respect. I hope that the Minister will inform us soon about tomorrow's meeting of the Health Council. Once again, I wish everyone who is involved here and at this stage in this outbreak a great deal of strength and wisdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u274	Thank you. I call Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one motion and one remark. First the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that in the event of a possible major outbreak of a virus, it should be clear who is directing and can send binding within a region;]] [[Whereas a virus outbreak does not fall within the scope of Article 39 of the Security Regions Act and therefore hospitals are not under the command of the President of a Security Region, but in the event of a failure to consult them, can then give a written indication and then request the Minister to take measures;]] [[whereas it must be absolutely clear that the public interest also prevails in a system of market forces;]] [[calls on the Government to provide the Chamber with detailed information on the distribution of responsibility and decision-making powers in this respect, indicating the timetable for coordination and decision-making,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-117]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u276	Mr. Chairman. Following on from the debate, I would very much like to see who has the power to decide when conflicting interests are going to play, because then there must be a knot. And we need to know who that is. Mr. Chairman. Following on from Mr Van der Staaij, I would also like to make a comment on how the Labour Party looks at the division of responsibility between experts and the Minister in this case. I'll say it very simply. We agree with the Minister's approach that he bases his actions and decisions on information and expertise from the RIVM and the GGD in this case. But it is clear that we are discussing this with the Minister, not with the RIVM. So at all times the Minister is responsible for the political decisions he makes. We're okay with him basing it on experts. We also have confidence in those experts. But it can't be that ministerial responsibility suddenly falls. The Minister is not suggesting that either; let us be clear about that. He is accessible and with and through him the entire cabinet. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u277	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Sazias has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am, in fact, convinced that the Minister, after consulting all the experts, will take the appropriate measures to contain this corona infection. How it's gonna go on, no one knows. Of course, we all have to stay on top of it. However, there is one thing we are really concerned about, namely the plan to take care of elderly people in nursing homes. We're really wondering if a nursing home is well equipped for that. Moreover, it is also a question of protecting the other nursing home residents. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are plans to provide nursing home residents infected with the corona virus in the nursing home;]] [[Whereas the corona virus may be fatal in vulnerable elderly people;]] [[Whereas it is not clear whether nursing homes are sufficiently equipped to accommodate vulnerable patients and protect the other residents;]] [[calls on the Government not to treat nursing home residents in the nursing home in case of corona virus infection,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-118]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u279	Finally, on behalf of 50PLUS, I would like to express my gratitude to all the people and caretakers involved in this virus and the patients, who are walking their legs out of their bodies. All patients with the corona virus at home, I would like to wish you well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u280	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'm suspending the meeting until 4:30. Then we get an opinion on the 14 motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u281	The next item is the continuation of the debate on developments concerning the spread of the coronavirus. I give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care, who will also give an opinion on the 14 motions for resolutions tabled. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u282	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks for the debate, too. There's an incredible amount to tell about the corona virus. I also know that a lot of people are listening and watching. They want to be kept up-to-date about how the coronavirus develops in the Netherlands. It is very good that we are trying to provide that clarity from day to day. I understand very well that you too, in your role as a representative of the people, have an important role to play in this. I shall confine myself to a judgment on the fourteen motions and then make a final comment. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 105 calls on the Government to ensure delivery in the coordination and distribution of protective equipment. I advise against this motion. Of course, we will make a terrible effort and look at everything that can be done. But of course there are very difficult guarantees to give on delivery, because it depends on the chain of production and delivery. We can appeal to the manufacturers, but the word "guarding" cannot be used. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 105.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u283	The motion in part No. 105 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u284	The motion in part No. 106 is about developing an emergency scenario for drug shortages. I think it is very important that we always look at the situation and what is needed. If China cannot deliver, it is of course important that we look at how the raw materials can then, for example, come from India. I can look very closely at the development of such an emergency scenario. The motion in part No. 106 gets judgment, then, Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u285	The motion in part No. 106 has Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u286	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 107, I don't recommend. I said I'm gonna keep my finger on the pulse when it comes to the finances and hospitals, but I'm not gonna give any guarantees right now. I'm working on other things now, too, so I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 107.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u287	The motion in part No. 107 has been dissuaded. That leads to an interruption by Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u288	Yes, because this affects both the third motion, about guaranteeing finances, at least for the continuity of care in hospitals, but also the first motion, to ensure that there are sufficient resources, not only for combating corona, but also for regular care. However, I think that the Minister interprets it very closely, because one could say that precisely the measures he wants, namely to make agreements and to draw coordination towards him, are intended to ensure that healthcare providers are guaranteed to supply their supplies. I don't really understand why he would discourage such a motion, when I think it ties in with what he wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u289	In the motion in part No. 105 is the word "guarding." If that said "up to the collar efforts" I would very much have liked to give it Chamber judgment. But it doesn't say that; it says "guards." I indicated at the motion in part No. 105 that no guarantees can be given on delivery, because the chain of production and supply is so important. At the motion in part No. 107 I have said that I would first like to take measures to control the corona virus in the Netherlands. I'm not deaf to all the consequences when it comes to finance, but first things first. That's why I'm saying I'm not recommending this motion, but of course I'm holding my finger on the wrist.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u290	I do object, however, to the fact that today is not the first time that the Minister has taken a stance on the fight against virus. He's really jumping from problem to problem. "I have a problem now and I'm going to fix it now. What happens tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, we'll see." I don't think that's the right approach. In my view, the Minister should look further ahead, also in order to avoid making choices now, for example because the finances are lacking at a hospital, which we regret afterwards. Given the huge number of people working at the Ministry, I don't see why we can't talk to health insurers right now. How are we not just going to ensure that care is in order, but that funding is also in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u291	You've made your point. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u292	I think you're supposed to do those two things at once. Governing is forward thinking and not living by the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u293	Looking ahead, I certainly do, with everything inside me. I focus on the approach of the coronavirus in the Netherlands. That's where I aim the energy. I advise against this motion, but I keep my finger on the wrist, because I understand quite a lot about this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u294	The Minister continued his speech with the fourth motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u295	The Jansen/Wilders motion in part No. 108 calls on the Government to prohibit flights from areas of risk, etc. I advise against this motion. I always want to take appropriate measures, but I'm not gonna provoke over-reactions, so I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u296	The motion in part No. 108 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u297	The Jansen motion in part No. 109 is about setting up a reporting obligation. I told you before, I'm deceiving that duty of reporting, so I'm deceiving that motion. People returning from an area who have no symptoms do not pose a sufficient risk to these measures, which can also cost a great deal of capacity, so I would advise against the motion in part No. 109.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u298	The motion in part No. 109 has been dissuaded. There is an interruption by Mr Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u299	Yes, but first the Jansen motion in part no. 110, 'cause I'll just have all three of them. It urges the government to develop several scenarios as a matter of urgency. I advise against this motion. I have clarified today what stages I distinguish in the outbreak of the coronavirus and what actions we are taking. That seems to me to be the right approach. I have strongly stressed that I consider what experts present to me and I do not see that in the motion, so I also advise against the motion in part No. 110.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u300	This motion has also been dissuaded. Mr. Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u301	I'll come back to the motion on part No. 109. Japan is taking drastic measures to prevent the new spread of the coronavirus. All travelers arriving from South Korea and China must be quarantined. These seem to me to be quite normal measures when you talk about a large fireplace, in a region where there are a lot of infections. It's China and South Korea. That is what we also say in our motion: when there is a large fireplace, with many infections, why not go into quarantine with those people, to prevent them from lighting more and more people in the Netherlands? I would like a response as to why Japan is doing this and we are not doing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u302	Then I'd like to repeat it again. The motion in part No. 109 is about setting up a reporting obligation. I'm not for that. If there is a return from a risk area and mild symptoms, but not yet fever, we have indicated: "Make sure you take care of yourself, stay home for a while, see if the symptoms worsen. If that is the case, please contact your GP and not at any other time." Then you can also prevent us from overloading the care capacity, which of course is not infinite. I stand by my assessment of the motion in part No. 109: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u303	In conclusion, Mr Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u304	I understand the capacity is leading, and apparently security comes second. We are very sorry about that. We will simply table the motions, but we find it extremely regrettable that this consideration is being made in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u305	The motions have already been tabled, but they will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u306	Health matters are always at the top of the agenda. When it comes to where you focus your capacity best, I think that should apply to the people we test, if they already have fever problems, for example. Making a reporting obligation is then an administrative act that does not help us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u307	The Minister continued his speech with the seventh motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u308	The Van den Berg motion in part No. 111 is about explaining why additional travel measures are being taken or are not being taken. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u309	The motion in part No. 111 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u310	The Van den Berg/Palland motion in part No. 112 is about reducing working hours. I would ask the House to hold this motion because I need the Social Affairs colleague to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u311	That's fine. My colleague Hilde Palland has already contacted us, so I think that can be arranged quite quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u312	At the request of Mrs Van den Berg, I propose her motion (25295, No. 112). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u313	The Van Esch motion in part No. 113 I advise, because it says that corona patients are told that they do not need to inform their contacts. It's definitely not in the protocols. There is therefore no need to tighten anything. I would be happy to send you the relevant protocol, but I would advise against the motion in part No. 113.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u314	The motion in part No. 113 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u315	In the motion in part No. 114 is requested to have an independent external examination of whether the GDPDs are equipped for their legal work. A few years ago, such an investigation was already carried out at GGDs. If I may read the motion in such a way that I may ask the IGJ again, but then in the form of an update not me, but the IGJ then I am willing to give this motion judgment Chamber. Eventually, the GGDs are, of course, part of the municipal government. They often work together through common arrangements. The payment is made through the Municipal Fund. To join the question raised by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance: I thought this might be a middle way. Well, then judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u316	Of course, it's true that it's a municipal service. At the same time, this service now has a national task. With the Minister's explanation, there will be an update showing what is now the capacity of the GGD I can go along with. It seems to me very good to evaluate that, also for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u317	With that, this motion gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u318	Yes, Mr. Chairman. And I undertake to involve the GGDs and the Association of Dutch Municipalities. Then the motion to part No. 115 by Mrs Dik-Faber on making the provision of information understandable and accessible from the government. I give that motion judgment, Chamber, because it is very important that we give the right information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u319	The motion in part No. 115 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u320	The motion in part No. 116 asks the government to provide for the need to receive unambiguous information from the government at a fixed time and through multiple channels, but at least via TV and radio. I share the need for unambiguous information. The information on the RIVM site is part of the information. I would like to see whether and how, in the short term, we can do something on radio and television. So I need a little more time, but it's either and how together. If I can read her like that, I'd be happy to give this motion a ruling Chamber. I promise I'll get back to that soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u321	I see that non-verbal consent is given. That gives the motion in part No. 116 Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u322	The motion in part No. 117 asks the government to provide the Chamber with detailed information on the distribution of responsibility and the distribution of powers, in accordance with what is written in the motion, and to indicate a timetable. I'm giving this motion judgment room. I'm gonna have to put that right on paper. I would ask for a moment to put it clearly. That may be a little different from 'per-passing', but if there is a little understanding and we are allowed to do that carefully, I am happy to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u323	A long-awaited moment has come: the Minister gives a motion of my hand judgment Chamber. So I certainly move along when it comes to something as small as: it comes next week or the week after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u324	That gives the motion in part No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u325	It was motion no. 13! Finally, Mr President. The motion in part No. 118 asks the government not to have nursing home residents treated in the nursing home in the event of contagion with the corona virus. I think it is important that we take good care as a starting point. Even though the complaints of an older person in a nursing home are not serious, I can imagine that it is very pleasant to have that care in the nursing home. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 118.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u326	The motion in part No. 118 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u327	Finally, Mr President. We held a debate this afternoon, emphasising the need for proper information on appropriate measures. I will continue to do so, and I will keep the Chamber well informed. Mr Van der Staaij has asked whether I will also ensure a proper evaluation. We'll definitely do that. As we learned from previous outbreaks, we will also learn from them. I will also inform you of new developments concerning the additional measures discussed by Mr Veldman. I will also inform you about the EPSCO, if anything special comes out of it. That's what I'm expecting. We base our work on experts. That is what I argued in detail this afternoon. But in the end, it is true that the measures taken by the public authorities are being determined. I'll answer for that here. I take that responsibility, as well as carrying out the tasks, very comprehensively and very carefully, if I may put it that way. There is a lot of work to be done, but in the end it is important that we inform the Netherlands properly and keep the outbreak in the claws. That's what we want. Head cool, heart warm. It has been my honour and pleasure to have this debate here this afternoon, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u328	Thank you. Finally, there is a question from Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u329	Yeah, about that 50PLUS motion about taking care of and nursing people in the nursing home who contracted the corona virus. The SP is as concerned about this as 50PLUS. But I also understand the Minister when he says: if it is true that a resident of a nursing home that is in a place, and who is therefore no longer in the nursing home, can also be in isolation in that place, in a safe way, then it is conceivable to treat people in a nursing home. I can imagine. In fact, that can be wise, because then you don't have to drag someone through the nursing home, in an ambulance, or in any other way, to the hospital. At least I can follow it. This is a difficult point for many people, so I think it is very important for the Minister to make it very clear what exactly is intended and what is not intended. I would very much like to vote in favour of the motion of 50PLUS, but I also understand the Minister's explanation: if it is in the interests of the patient himself and if it is precisely in the interests of preventing further spread, then we should do so on a small scale.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u330	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u331	So can the Minister explain that very precisely again? And then I hope 50PLUS might be able to modify the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u332	This point goes back to the information I gave you in Monday's letter. Look, it takes more capacity to take people not only home in isolation, but also in hospitals. There's no infinite capacity there either. Then a farther away measure is to prepare: look for alternative locations where people can be cared for as carriers of the coronavirus. Then the situation can arise that in a nursing home there is also a space created to provide, if the good conditions are created, people with mild complaints there with the care that belongs to the patients. So it's not a hunch jump. I am glad that Mr Hijink points that out. It's something you shouldn't rule out. It's not a step we expect to take soon, but I want to show that thinking doesn't stop at home isolation and caring for patients in isolation in a hospital.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u333	Finalizing, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u334	In my view, the Minister is again explaining it differently from what Mr Van Dissel of the RIVM said at the briefing last Tuesday. Indeed, the Minister is now saying that it is a backup in case there is no room in the hospitals. Then it could be considered doing it in nursing homes. But are we talking about patients who don't live in the nursing home? Or is it about patients, people, elderly people who already live in the nursing home? That's important to know. And is it true that if there is an isolation site in the hospital, those elderly people from the nursing home when they are infected, they go to the hospital? Or is the Minister in favour of them being treated in the nursing home, even though there is room in a hospital? I think it is very important to know whether it is a backup option, or whether the Minister thinks it is a good idea to take care of the elderly and nurse them in the nursing home if they are infected with the corona virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u335	I see this as an additional possibility. So one goes to the hospitals first. It won't be possible in all nursing homes either. In addition, you need to think about alternative locations where patients can be cared for. Then it's possible to think about a nursing home, too, but it can't all be just like that. For example, patients who have the associated symptoms should also be affected. So it's supplementary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u336	Is this about older people who already live there? Or is this a new group of patients being taken there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u337	No, it's about people who already live in that nursing home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u338	Finally, Mrs Sazias, on the same motion, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u339	I'll hold the motion and adjust her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u340	At the request of Mrs Sazias, I propose her motion (25295, No. 118). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u341	This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-7.u342	We have 12 motions for resolutions which will be put to the vote next Tuesday, 10 March. I would like to thank the Minister and his staff, as well as all the experts, healthcare professionals, doctors, all those who are working to contain the corona virus. Of course, well-being and a lot of strength for all patients and also for their neighbors. Thanks to the Chamber and the staff for the input.
