ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the final report by the Expert Group on political support for interstate violence and humanitarian intervention. The first speaker is Mrs Karabulut of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Following the political extension of the Dutch government's support for the illegal war in Iraq, there has been a great deal of discussion and, ultimately, years later, in 2010, the Davids Committee issued a report, namely that we should no longer provide political support for military operations if there is no international mandate to do so. That is a policy that the Minister wants to change now. This seems to us to be a particularly bad idea because it undermines international law and, of course, it can encourage other countries to show aggression where it is illegal. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, in response to the Iraq report of the Davids Commission in 2010, the Cabinet indicated that for political support to interstate violence, there should also be a legal basis for the use of violence under international law;]] [[Whereas Article 90 of the Constitution provides that the Government shall promote the development of the international legal order;]] [[considers that the provision of political support for illegal military action does not promote the international legal order but undermines it;]] [[Whereas (support for) illegal military action may also encourage other countries to engage in illegal violence;]] [[considers that the development of the international legal order is particularly beneficial in terms of compliance with international law;]] [[calls on the Government not to change the policy launched in 2010,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29521-416]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mrs Ploumen had also registered, but she is not yet present, just like Mr Koopmans of the VVD. Then I'll suspend the meeting for five minutes and the Minister can now take a look at the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-4.u4	I call the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Following the action of the US, the UK and France against Assad, following its deployment in Douma, NATO issued a declaration of political support at the time. The Netherlands has made a note of this. That was the reason for the cabinet to ask a group of experts to look from an international perspective at a situation like this, in which a despot chemical weapon is used against its own population and a large number of like-minded democratic constitutional states express political support for it. The Fijnaut Committee came to the conclusion that in very specific situations this may indeed be justified. That conclusion is shared by the Cabinet, with all the important framework conditions laid down. Against this background, I must advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-4.u6	The motion in part No. 416 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-4.u7	It is, of course, particularly painful that the reason for this report and for the Minister to change David's important policy is the poison gas incident in the Syrian Douma. Now the case is that also senior members of the OPCW have doubts as to whether this was the regime or Jaish al-Islam, which the regime was fighting with at the time. Assad has done terrible things, but it's very dubious. I would also like to ask the Minister: are you not afraid that it will undermine our credibility if we support illegal actions, when we say that we want to promote the international legal order and expect it from other countries, such as Syria and Russia?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-4.u8	First of all, the OPCW carried out research there and published it. It was an investigation under difficult circumstances, in a war situation in which parties have an interest in removing evidence. Secondly, Mrs Karabulut talks about credibility. This was a retribution for a gruesome poison gas attack on its own population. In fact, all the countries we normally go along with were Denmark, Germany, Norway, Belgium, France, England and the United States, that is, democratic constitutional states such as our own. That is the point of credibility. The Netherlands was the only one to make a reservation. That was indeed the reason to ask if there is any ground to be the only one in that position. There may be a reason for this, and that is why we asked for the opinion. And experts say that in very specific cases you can express such political support, as all the other democratic constitutional states did at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-4.u9	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-4.u10	I note that no problem has been solved. The Minister has not learned from the past that the illegal war in Iraq has brought us IS. The Minister is using this incident to change policy, but this incident is highly dubious. OPCW sources and other serious investigative journalists are very much in doubt about this. The Minister seized this incident, while perhaps jihadist groups were responsible for this attack. That is all very sad and it weakens our position and our credibility in the world. I think that is a shame, so I really hope that my colleagues will support this motion to stop the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-4.u11	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mrs Karabulut obviously thinks your position is strong if you isolate yourself from Germany, France, England, Denmark and Norway. Once again, these are just democratic states of the law. Mrs Karabulut thinks that your position will be strengthened, and she believes that this is a reason to take the advice of these highly respected legal experts. That is a reasoning that I do not support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you. Then the motion is in part No. 416 dissuade. We have come to the end of this VSO.
