ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome everyone: the Minister of Economic Affairs and Climate, the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, and the spokesmen in the Chamber. The next item is the budget for Economic Affairs and Climate Change, Section 35570-XIII. Today we are discussing the first term of office. There are 18 speakers, with speaking time of at least 9 minutes and up to 30 minutes, so I propose that we do two interruptions in the first period, in two. You may also ask four questions in succession, but then you will also be through. And the interruptions must be brief; that is really in the Rules of Procedure, Mr Wiersma. Yeah? Good. I now give the floor to Mr Graus on behalf of the PVV. A point of order? Mr. Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will also make my point of order very brief. We have sent a letter with a set of written questions on the ENCO report on nuclear energy. An important report on which we had many questions, and on which we asked among other things: can the documents come to the Chamber? Now I understand that a letter came in last night saying that the documents could not yet come. We didn't think it was a complicated task to get the documents around that decision-making...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u3	You said you'd be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u4	But the question is: when are we going to get those pieces? As far as we're concerned, soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u5	That's right! Yes, so during the budget debate, so to speak. Is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u6	Well, "during the budgetary process"... If there was a letter yesterday that did not work out, and then to continue printing today... Look, that would be very nice, but there will also be a round table on nuclear energy. So as far as we are concerned within now and a week or ten days, that would be very welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u7	Oh. Well, I think everyone agrees. Mr. Van der Lee?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u8	Yes, but I still want to focus on the number of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u9	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u10	There was a lot of talk going on. What's the plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u11	The proposal... Well, it's not a proposal. Just two interruptions, in two. That means a question and a follow-up question, four questions together. You may also just ask one question, and then one more question. At least four questions in total.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u12	Yes. Look, I fully understand the fact that it is very busy, and that there will be a corona debate later, but I find two interruptions very little. I'd raise it a little bit anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u13	A little bit. Mrs. Agnes Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u14	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I agree with that. It would be nice if it were at least three in two, minimum.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u15	Okay. Then we agree. Mr. Graus, you're going to wholeheartedly support this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u16	But, Madam President, we are with two spokesmen, one for climate and energy and the other for important SMEs. So I'd like four per member anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u17	No, it doesn't matter how much...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u18	But it's a budget deal. And normally we were allowed to ask unlimited questions over the past 14 years, and I think this is a very strict restriction. Now it seems like a general consultation that we go through between noses and lips, and that would be a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u19	No, I'm not. But it's the first term of the Chamber, isn't it? That's what I'm talking about. And it doesn't matter how many spokesmen you are, because if you're four and everybody gets three... But no, we're not negotiating anymore. Actually, this is my jurisdiction. I thought "I'm being friendly," but that's not always convenient. We have three interruptions in two. And that goes for each group, not by spokesperson.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u20	I now give the floor to Mr Graus on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u21	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mr. Graus, it's been a long time since I've seen you here. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u23	Well, then perhaps you haven't always presided; I'm here. It's not about quantity, it's about quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u24	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u25	Madam President. In view of the corona crisis, I would particularly like to focus on the many companies that have been in serious trouble. It is unacceptable that companies, even whole sectors.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This often has to do with the method of registration in the Trade Register. But this is what we want solved. Because often these people suffer more than 80%, 90% turnover losses due to the measures taken. The PVV wants a special task force that is my first request to present these companies and ensure appropriate emergency and compensation. We have a request about the temporary voucher bank for the travel industry and consumers who were and were affected. A motion from Mr Aartsen has already been tabled. That honor belongs to him. Mr Aartsen has already managed to tick that off, with our support. However, I would like that motion to be properly implemented, which is why I would like to mention it. In fact, from the beginning, from 2006, we have been fighting against the often stacked charges and administrative burdens. We want to put an end to this accumulation of charges and administrative burdens, and we also want a reduction. We have said once: one rule, two rule. Mr Aartsen of the VVD is also coming up with a possible better option that will be adopted by the Chamber. 'Cause ours was never hired. I shall, of course, support them wholeheartedly. Of course, Mr Aartsen is also going to speak in favour of reducing the administrative burden. I'd be happy to join you. The crisis is, in fact, the ultimate moment to reduce administrative burdens, taxes and municipal charges, or to postpone them wherever and if possible. I would also like to get a picture of that, because there are a lot of municipal charges that are just ridiculous. So I would like the Minister as a national shepherd of the sheep to talk to the Association of Dutch Municipalities about where this accumulation of taxes and charges could possibly be reduced. I would like the Minister to make a commitment to this and to take the lead. In particular, now, the government should work to keep the economy running through reduced excise, tax and VAT. That also leads to better border effects. My own province, Limburg, with so many kilometres of border, most kilometres of border, still suffers from these differences in excise duties. Please do something about that, especially now, at the time of the corona crisis. Under Rutte III, the administrative burden and complexity of rules increased alarmingly. So we also want reduction targets. I have a motion for a resolution on that, if necessary. Something very important is coming up, Madam President. I am going to draw attention to the anchoring of VDL Nedcar as the only large, independent car manufacturer in the Netherlands. A second production facility requires an initial investment of between 500 million and 1.2 billion. I know the government is working on that. Thank you for that. As a result of enlargement, employment at VDL Nedcar can grow from 5,000 jobs now to many thousands more. I'm counting on the support of the Chamber, should a motion be needed to support this. Because these jobs not only contribute to the national interest, but also to the recovery of the Dutch economy, especially after the corona crisis. That second factory is also needed. If MINI and BMW stop immediately, an entire factory needs to be rebuilt. It could have been years. That second factory could take that right away. Of course, we would prefer to have a very own car brand. All our best designers are at Renault, at BMW and you name it all. Our best technicians work worldwide in the automotive industry. Why don't we get them back and build ourselves a national car? That would be perfect for everything, wouldn't it? For the economy, for employment, but also for our national pride, that we will one day have our own car brand. There's a lot to think about. I would therefore ask the government to take the lead and draw up an integral plan to make VDL Nedcar future-proof, for the sake of acquiring new customers after the departure of BMW MINI, and to ensure the Limburg economy and employment for a long time, in collaboration with VDL, the province of Limburg and municipalities, but also with knowledge and education institutions that are needed for this. I hope that the government, the Minister and the Secretary of State, will be able to promise that. I'd love it if a motion wasn't even necessary. Madam President. Finally, I would like to draw particular attention to the carnival industry. I'm going to list a few more branches. Of course, I'm an ambassador to the carnival business. They provide affordable entertainment, harmony in small village centers and large cities and for fun, affordable fun. The fair is a seasonal industry and is one of the most affected sectors. In October 2019 the season ended for many carnival operators and according to the schedule the new season would start at the end of March, beginning of April but that of course never started. So I would like the Minister and the Secretary of State, especially the Secretary of State, to enter into a new conversation with the two unions, The Dutch Federation of Fairs and the BOVAK. Finally... I think Mr Öztürk would like to ask a question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u26	So am I, but I thought you were finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u27	But time goes on. I'd be happy to answer it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mr. Öztürk, Mr. Graus will give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mr Graus is right to stand up for VDL Nedcar and his employees in Limburg. There were a number of employees in front of the House of Representatives this morning. With a number of colleagues we have received 1,000 signatures. We are talking about 4,800 employees, and you are right to stand up for that. However, should we not go one step further, in the sense that the cabinet is even looking beyond Europe's borders for new car brands and investing more sustainably in Limburg so that we do not have to have this same debate every five or six years?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u30	I totally agree with my colleague in Limburg. I am sorry, by the way, that I did not know that something was offered here this morning, because I would have liked to have been there; that invitation did not reach me, so I find that sad to hear. I'm glad you've been there. I totally agree with you. As for BMW and MINI, things went very well with VDL Nedcar. They were also very satisfied with the Van der Voegte family, with the workers, with the working atmosphere and with the quality that was delivered there. Indeed, the car industry is often dependent and certainly now. I would also like to see a national car brand with the support of the government in better times, but that needs to be considered now. For now, we need to get work anywhere we can from and we can arrange and tap car assembly, too. I think every Member of Parliament will agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u31	It is about employment, but it is also about technology that we must retain in the Netherlands. VDL Nedcar is the only car factory in the Netherlands and we have to hold on to that, but then we also have to be able to work unorthodoxly, so that we remove all the obstacles and risks that exist to keep that going. Would you also like to include in your motion to get the cabinet to do everything in its power to maintain employment and technology in Limburg?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u32	Sure. Perhaps you'd like to sign in yourself and then we can see how we can modify the motion. Mr. Öztürk, I'm talking to you. I was talking to you through the chairman. Mr Amhaouch is also a friend of Limburg and I hope that other MPs who are not from Limburg will sign that motion as much as possible. By the way, I hope it's not even necessary. I hope that the Minister and the Secretary of State will make promises in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u33	That's gotta start.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u34	Exactly, that has yet to begin, but if the motion is needed, I am indeed prepared to adapt it in order to obtain the broadest possible support in the Chamber. At least I share what you have just said, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u35	Please continue. You agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u36	The newspapers always make it that way, but we get along pretty well. Mr. Öztürk doesn't want to know that for his supporters, but he's always kind to me, bilaterally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u37	I think so, too. It's a good thing it gets into the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u38	Exactly, yeah. Then there's something else I want to say about Tata Steel. There are all kinds of very nice actions, even from the staff of Tata Steel to guarantee an independent passage, but I would also like the Minister to take the lead on the rescue plan and make Tata Steel future-proof. This is also a company of national importance which we should be proud of. Finally, I have the question of whether Invest-NL and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate would like to talk to the representatives of life science companies. That's really what the future has. This also applies to artificial intelligence, but because I no longer have the time for it, other colleagues will undoubtedly continue to build on it. If it requires motions, I will certainly support and sign with them. I would also like to draw particular attention to the catering industry. He's had to take the big hits, and that's what's happening now. Keep an eye on all this, because these people are not only dealing with very serious national decisions, they are often abandoned at municipal level too. I hope that the government will direct that, so that the catering industry is protected, especially when it comes to municipal taxes and the like. I think I should leave it at that. I would like to show you one more thing, Madam President, in the nine seconds I have left. I am very proud of it: a mouth cap with the Limburg flag. You can have it if I've worn it; then it becomes a collector's item. Then my enzymes and bacteria are in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u39	I remember you once brought a flag, but you were not allowed to show it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u40	That's right. That's why I'm doing this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u41	It's a disguised way of advertising Limburg, but it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u42	Exactly. I had taken a Limburg flag and then a colleague of the VVD said: you are too busy with your own province. Then I said: more MPs should do that, more concerned with their own province. With me, that's Limburg. Maybe the government can still make an adjustment to our song? It is: Who is Limburg, det wet er geine. But it has to be: Whoever is Limburg, det wet er jiekerinne. It would be nice if the government could do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u43	It is, isn't it? That's good. It's a nice mouth cap, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u44	It's beautiful, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u45	Very nice. Thank you, Mr. Graus. Mr Kops has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u46	Thank you, Mr President. The Netherlands, that very small country, is responsible for only 0.35% of total global CO emissions. Then you can be climate hysterical if you want to get rid of the gas, heat pumps, solar panels, electric driving, less flying, less eating meat....................................................................................................... However, there has been a Climate Law that includes CO reduction targets for the coming decades. And yet a Climate Agreement has been reached, containing hundreds of far-reaching climate measures. Perhaps it is a kind of compensation urge that you want to make yourself very important as a very small country by doing a lot of climate policy, although the actual, Dutch climate effect is not getting any bigger. Climate policy has become an end in itself. 49% CO reduction in 2030: this is one of the objectives set out in the Climate Act. These goals have been created by climateopportunism, without considering implementation and the disastrous consequences. And that turns out to be the case. Because despite the many billions wasted on this, those goals are not even achieved. 49% reduction by 2030? Well, apparently not, because calculations by the Planning Office for the Environment show that the cabinet does not go beyond 34%. That's quite a difference. What amateurism! We do not care that these targets are not being met, but that billions are being wasted is all the more important to us. It is expensive amateurism; I have no other words for it. Unattainable, priceless, nonsensical climate policy. It embodies the grandeur of the climate preachers, from GroenLinks to VVD. So what now? We in the PVV have always been crystal clear about this: stop this madness! Especially in times of crisis, one would expect climate policy to be the first to be heavily cut back, but not. In fact, the current crisis is actually being abused to accelerate that green madness through it. Mr. Chairman. "Due to the current crisis, the demand for energy has fallen dramatically," says the International Energy Agency. And: "The demand drop has never been so great since the crisis between the First and Second World War." As a result, CO emissions have also decreased dramatically. But even that, even the CO emissions that have been reduced by the crisis, is apparently not enough to meet the climate targets. Let that get to you. We're in a huge crisis, people are losing their jobs and income, companies are going bankrupt, the country's pretty much on its feet. And even that is not enough to meet these climate targets. Then the question is, what is it? How are these goals ever to be met? Or rather, what misery awaits us? And to realise that citizens are already suffering enormously from the effects of climate policy. Take, for example, the removal of natural gas from homes. It's only just begun and it's already one big drama. How much does it cost? This costs €30,000, €60,000 and in some cases even more than a tonne per house, but according to the Cabinet it is all feasible and affordable. Complete nonsense, because even the Planning Office for the Environment no longer believes in it and says that this whole sustainability is profitable for virtually no one, really no one. A complete mortgage of 30 years is repaid even faster than that sustainability is ever going to render. And to realize that there are already more than 650,000 households living in energy poverty. This is partly due to the enormous cost of the energy transition. We don't say that from the PVV, but TNO said that the day before yesterday: 650,000 households who are barely able to pay the energy bill. Previous research has already shown that this number will increase further in the coming years to 1.5 million households in 2030 as a direct result of the decision to remove all homes from the gas. And so we see, President: climate policy, energy transition, it makes people poor. And if it doesn't make them poor, it'll make them sick. Literally. Imagine looking out for a wind farm or having a biomass plant practically in your backyard. We were able to read all the poignant stories in De T last Saturday. Those are people who are literally fleeing. Those are people who are forced to move because of the enormous noise pollution caused by windmills and the huge odour nuisance caused by biomass power plants. Untenable, sickening. Literally! This means that we have the first climate refugees, Dutch climate refugees. Mr. Chairman. It is, of course, very worrying, even frightening, that climate policy should now be doubled in order to achieve the 2030 target, according to the PBL. The Minister has also said that more climate action is needed. Which one? Windmills, biomass plants, how much? And where the hell are they supposed to go? Or rather, where should the people flee from these things? As far as biomass is concerned, some 70 organisations, including residents' organisations, sent a letter of fire to the Minister yesterday. They have called for an end to subsidies on biomass. At least make it clear when these subsidies are going to stop. Because as long as the Minister remains unclear about this, biomass projects will continue at local level. And, yes, who is in favour of this except GroenLinks and the VVD, of course? What about, for example, the biomass plant in Vierpolders, which wants to build several gardeners there? My PVV colleague Madlener and I have asked several questions about this. Luckily, the municipality rejected the licence application, but the grant that the Minister had promised, which was EUR 29.2 million, remains available just in case the plant would still be there. Why? By providing the initiators with a large bag of money, the Minister encourages them to continue the fight for that biomass plant. And that against the will of the locals, the city council and B and W. So, Minister, withdraw that grant decision. Finally, Mr President. See the Climate Agreement with hundreds of measures, an agreement that is already doomed to failure. Or look at making homes gasless. One big drama already! Or look at biomass, which is even explicitly mentioned in the Climate Act, although the criticism of biomass has never been as great as it is now. Then we see that policy, intended for the coming decades, policy for the next 30 years, so a year after it has been conceived, is already at risk. What amateurism! This whole climate obsession really raises the worst form of amateurism in policy-makers. In a hurry everything is invented to be able to conclude: oh no, it doesn't work, it hasn't been such a good idea. That is the ill-thoughtfulness of climate policy, and we need to get rid of it as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u47	Thank you, Mr. Kops for your contribution. Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u48	I actually wanted to express support...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u50	...to Mr Kops for the point he's making about energy poverty. 650,000 households with too little money to pay the energy bill. Now that a lot of people have to stay at home, that is a growing problem. Libraries close; the place where you can get warm for free if you can't even turn on the heating at home is gone. I would very much like to ask Mr Kops: how are we going to solve this together? Because I would like to make a proposal to that effect. There is no point in stopping climate policy alone. I ask through the chairman: what should we do? Mr Kops cited that TNO study. Shall we, for example, accelerate the sustainability of these homes? Even if you don't have anything to do with climate policy, isn't that a great solution to ensure that people and lower energy bills have a nicer home and that we create jobs? Is Mr Kops prepared to make a joint proposal on this, rather than just be angry about energy poverty?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u51	Firstly, energy poverty is, of course, partly the result of climate policy. See, for example, the ODE, the storage of renewable energy. Since its introduction in 2013, this storage alone has led to an increase in the energy bill of hundreds of euros. Then Mrs Beckerman says: yes, but we still need to make it more sustainable. Research carried out by the PBL has just shown that this sustainability is profitable for virtually no one. It costs tens of thousands of euros per house, sometimes even a tonne per house. That is simply for no one to pay, but that money will have to be paid, left or right. That's got to come from somewhere, and as always, it comes from the ordinary people. What are you supposed to do? On the contrary, we must stop this climate policy. Then we can eliminate storage of renewable energy. We see that the energy tax on gas goes up again and again, 4 cents per cube, then 3 cents per cube, and why? To encourage people to go off the gas in the context of the climate, so to speak. But people don't do that because of the costs and then have a huge energy bill. So, in conclusion, if climate policy is to stop, then all related burdens, tax increases, can be immediately removed from the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u52	Mr Kops is right that the ODE has caused a huge increase in the energy bill. As you can see from today's documents, the SP has therefore submitted a proposal to make households and SMEs pay significantly less. So we're in agreement on that. But even if that part goes off, there are still a lot of households left in energy poverty. I would like to work together and I also hope that a broad part of the Chamber is for that, because it is a real shame when people have to choose between hot food or a warm house. There we really need to do more than just stop with that ODE, as Mr Kops proposes or reduce it for households as I propose. I would really like to work together on that, because this is really the time. I notice that we are not really getting very much further, except that the energy bill is going down a little bit with Mr Kops and a little bit more with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u53	A short response?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u54	Yes, of course, the energy bill has to go down, because it is indeed poignant when you see that people literally turn off the stove and sit on the couch with a sweater for fear of the huge cost. Of course, so we need to lower the power bill. Last year it increased by €300 on average, this year it also went up again and next year the account goes up again. That is because of the systematic tax increases, especially on gas and the increase in the climate tax, because that is in fact the ODE. At least we have to get rid of that, but I understand that Mrs Beckerman of the SP doesn't want that. And that is such a pity, because they make sure that the bill has gone up so much. We'll have to get rid of that. Of course, it is very simple what the SP says: the energy bill has to be lowered. Yeah, but how? That money has to come from somewhere, and it has to be paid for. People are paying it now through the taxes on the energy bill. So, if we're gonna keep these people safe, we're gonna have to get rid of those taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u55	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wiersma on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u56	Mr President, thank you. Early this spring, in the middle of the lockdown, I was with my wife and child seven weeks ago in the parental home in Friesland, a guest with my father. Childcare stopped and we were looking for how we were going to fix this. My father also thought it was a nice way to spend a little longer with his granddaughter. After a long time working in care, he started for himself fourteen years ago. He's got a snack bar. I witnessed his heaviest period in those 14 years. What I saw was often very ugly, but sometimes also touching beautiful. For weeks he tried to lower the rent on his property. I also called the landlord about it for an hour and a half, but in vain. But there were also very nice things. When a children's party didn't go through, he gave the birthday boy a fries. And to someone who was seriously ill and wanted to eat his favorite snacks for the last time, he delivered them. It showed how big the contrasts are: a roller coaster. And how important all these local entrepreneurs are. We have a great deal of respect for all those people who, in these bizarre circumstances, are trying to get rid of it. Examples like this are countless and we all recognize that. So let us also do with everything we have and can, what is needed to support them. The cabinet does that, and I appreciate that very much. Mr. Chairman. We are from the biggest wage rise in years and most jobs have ever fallen into the heftiest economic decline since the war. The corona virus is putting pressure on everything. It makes the future uncertain and the uncertainty great for everyone. Yesterday there was a great deal of talk about the aid packages, but it will also mark this debate. It is a good thing that yesterday the cabinet said again: we are looking at what is needed at that moment. More than ever, we must now stand up for what is under pressure. We must help our middle class and entrepreneurs to adapt where necessary, however uncertain. Only then will we be able to fall back on deep pockets in the future in the event of an emergency. Only then can we hopefully return to normal the fastest. Just to a stable income. Getting a little better every year. Going out with friends or your family and just doing nice things. As a country, we can earn enough to make all these important services such as health care, that good school and enough blue on the street even better. In addition to the short-term support package, the VVD sees three main ingredients. I will deal with this in my contribution: investing in middle income and SMEs, a strong economy with fair trade and less dependent on other hands and countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u57	I think it is a touching argument and I am glad that there is someone here who accepts the consequences of this policy directly. My question is this. The degree of contagion in the catering industry, including in your father's snack bar, is 2.6%. In other groups of society, this percentage is much higher. In the home situation 60% and in the family visit 11%. It's 2.6%. Then I wonder: what do you think and what does your father think of the fact that despite this very low level of contamination, the catering industry has to close, with all the consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u58	My dad's 63 and he's terrified of how he's gonna get his pension now. He also wonders whether he is not at extra risk of getting infected. He is therefore perhaps one of the main proponents of measures to prevent the virus from advancing further. He wants to be able to continue this case in good health and also get that pension a little healthy. So he understands these measures. At the same time, he also understands that not all infections can be easily traced to a specific location. There are, of course, a lot of people around that case, who come there and hang out with each other in the city. That whole playing field, all those situations you're dealing with, you need to be able to appreciate. You never know that for sure. We are taking measures to at least minimise the risk that the virus will continue to progress and then he will also contribute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u59	I'm gonna say something about it anyway. A point of order of my own, then, in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u60	Mr President, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u61	There is now a technical briefing on all corona measures. We're about to have an extensive debate on corona. Yesterday, we discussed the support package extensively with three directors and you too took part in it. I know that it is important and that everything has to do with everything, but try to have a debate on the budget. I address you, but it applies to all of us. Of course, there are all kinds of lines that have to do with each other, but we're not going to do everything all over again. Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u62	You have a point, Mr President. However, we can talk about the budget here, but if half of the catering industry goes bankrupt, then it is completely pointless to discuss this budget. Of course, the infections are very low and the bankruptcies are not yet on the agenda, but they are coming. The third wave just becomes a bankruptcy wave in the hospitality business. I take your point to heart and will leave it at that. One last comment, perhaps. I hope your father stays healthy, Mr. Wiersma, but I also hope he looks at the statistics, because under 65 years there's actually no problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u63	Thank you for the comment. A question is being asked, and I want to answer it properly. I'm here to invest in the cup. The Netherlands is a beautiful and rich country, but what we have to fight together is also quite something. There is no nice cocktail: ever lower growth prospects and increasing costs for all those facilities that we consider so important. Because of corona, this prospect is even less beautiful. The AFM warned yesterday about the silence before the storm. That's why the VVD wants to invest and renew. That's the recipe. In the short term, this means ensuring that all those middlemen and all those jobs stay alive. In the long term, this means investing. The more we do that, the more we earn together, the more we do it together with our middle class and our entrepreneurs, the more we and our household wallets will benefit from it. For the short term I have a heart cry for all those middlemen who are now heavily underwater: buy the new TV locally with Black Friday, those shoe gifts with Santa Claus, the gifts you want to put under the Christmas tree. Our local entrepreneurs are indispensable for our cities and villages. I would ask our cabinet to support that as much as possible. Is the cabinet prepared for an information campaign "Buy locally!" to start? Can we, for example, like a country like France, ask for a great deal of talk like Amazon to take a step back and not advertise for a moment? Mr. Chairman. Then the longer term. The cabinet came up with a growth strategy last year. How's that going? Six pillars were identified, under which the cabinet would come forward with innovative proposals. Are these still coming? Is the cabinet prepared to put some official options on paper for each pillar so that we can also take them with us in the formation? And is the cabinet willing to include explicitly in the analyses made for each new legislative proposal the effects on economic growth and our investment environment, for example in a business impact analysis? Can this get a permanent place in there? Then there's another initiative, the National Growth Fund. Everyone knows on the left or right that you have to earn something before you can spend it. Economic growth is not an end in itself, but good care for your parents and that best education for your children are not free. To invest in this, we need to improve our earning capacity, our structural GDP, with the National Growth Fund, and we also think it wise to put it at an appropriate distance from politics. I have two comments to make. Friday we were informed that it might take a little longer with the projects for that Growth Fund. Can the government promise to make these investments before the elections? Is the government also looking at how to allow these investments to have an impact on the economy in the short term? That is perhaps something that we need most now. Then the focus, the second point. It also came back in the round table we had together last week. Bet on those markets, on that technology and on those strengths that the Netherlands can also be international in the coming years. Key technologies and space, for example, are often mentioned. How does the Cabinet see this? In what way does the Netherlands make a difference and what focus would the government want to put on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u64	Mr Wiersma has just mentioned the Growth Fund. There will be a separate debate on this and then we will discuss it in greater depth. Still, I have one question. He states that it is good to put the Growth Fund away from politics. Doesn't Mr. Wiersma trust himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u65	Conscience questions are always at the right place with Mr Stoffer. This is a good question. I think we should all ask ourselves whether there are initiatives from the past that have successfully contributed to the sustainable earning capacity, so you can see that we have more left in the wallet. Then what's in it for them? They benefit from consistency: a deal is a deal. They benefit from the fact that they are long-term and that they are not always politically at risk of having to be stamped in the short term. That is what my group would like to avoid. I have a lot of faith in all of us and in our expertise, but there are also a lot of other people with a lot of expertise, who may know even more specifically and even better what is good and what we can grow even more into. Let's give them the confidence to make those choices. Of course, we always get those choices back here and the Chamber can say something about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u66	You want me to press this? The operation of this microphone looks like an organ. I like a button better, I like buttons, but not this kind of thing. I wanted to ask my colleague from the VVD something. He was just talking about the effects there will be when new rules and laws come in. One of the most historic breakthroughs I have ever achieved as a Member of Parliament was the SME test. Because it's from me. That can also be mentioned, because the press doesn't. Surely the VVD should ask: do something with the PVV's SME test? That would be much better than asking questions, because the SME test is comprehensive when it comes to new rules and laws. These must be tested for applicability, affordability, feasibility and workability: everything. Then we'll be done in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u67	That's a good point. A very nice idea from Mr Graus, I think. It's already in the government's analysis of legislative proposals. That is precisely why the SME test is important. It is good that we have managed to introduce it, so we often have to apply it. But I would like us to look not only at SMEs, but at the whole broad business community. What is a bill going to do for the opportunities that companies have to create, for example, new jobs? That's very important right now. Let's take that extra in every bill, now that it's so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u68	Mr Wiersma just made a nice speech about his father and his snack bar, in Friesland. That's what my next question is about. It is about the National Growth Fund. Mr Wiersma wanted to put a number of accents. He considers the National Growth Fund, which should organise or support the future earning capacity for the Netherlands, so important. Mr Wiersma talked about focus, but I would also like to talk about wide spread, so that all the opportunities in the regions are in the picture, from Friesland to Limburg and from Groningen to Zeeland. How important does Mr Wiersma think that is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u69	Of course, I think the regions are very important, as do Mr Amhaouch. Like Mr Amhaouch, I think it is important that this fund should do what we want, namely to contribute in the long term to a strong economy for the Netherlands. This makes it possible for us to reverse the trend that it is becoming increasingly difficult to get together, for example, in old age and good care. So we need to earn more, our companies need to earn more, we need to get more jobs and we need to keep them in the Netherlands. I think we'll get to that. Then it must also be the best spending. I fully trust the committee to do so, and I also trust the regions to have very good ideas so that the fund can show good ideas across the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u70	I have heard Mr Wiersma mention more than twenty times the word 'growth' in the last five minutes. I thought I'd ask him to reflect on where we are now. The impact of the corona crisis is enormous, as is the impact of the nitrogen crisis and the climate crisis. The Brexit's gonna be fine. The red line is that all of this is a consequence of human action. We deal with our raw materials, our emissions, flora and fauna wrongly. We need to change the way we think about growth. We must move towards a transition economy, towards a transition fund. Why can't I hear Mr Wiersma about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u71	I do not need to defend the cabinet here, but I think it is the cabinet itself that points out that the recipe we have always had in the past for growth is no longer working. Transitions are a very important pillar in the growth strategy that I have just mentioned. My question is: come now for the formation with options. Those transitions are very specific. In the words of Mr Van der Lee, I also taste a little bit that growth is not really important and that it will all work out well with the collective burdens and the facilities that we have, such as health care; it will pay itself. That's not true. The money has to be earned. You have to earn the money before you can spend it. The discussion is about how we can maximise this earning capacity. Of course, we do so using new technology and in a sustainable way, because that is the chance to make the world a better place and make money from it. So let us combine this, above all, and not contrast it, I would like to say to Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u72	But that is, of course, the essence of the matter. The old earning models, in the classic fossil way, are not going to bring the future in terms of employment, prosperity and sustainability that we need. The core of this fund must be through transitions, through earning models that fit into those transitions or arise from those transitions. I therefore find it strange that this sixth pillar is not at the heart of the fund and that it is only very limited. I have already expressed this criticism in the winter. Does Mr Wiersma share that criticism with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u73	I also see that I am zooming out and then I come to your question that everyone here in this Chamber, in fact any party, would like a different kind of core of such a fund. One wants to live a fund for it, the other wants to turn it into a green fund. I understand that; it is everyone's right to find it. But let's take a good look at which Christmas tree is really going to make it a nice Christmas. This is a combination of a number of blocks: knowledge development, research and development and infrastructure. The energy infrastructure has also been added for a reason. So I think Mr Van der Lee is being served at his beck and call. I would like to make sure that we make it too narrow, because the task is so large and so wide, in the sense that we want to strengthen the long-term earning capacity of the Netherlands through the new industry as well. So it's necessary to hold on to that and not suddenly narrow it down with specifically just a green fund. I wouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u74	We need to achieve growth. That must be green growth. We need an incentive policy for this. My question to Mr Wiersma is: how much growth are we losing at the moment, simply because of a lack of training of people? There are over 50,000 vacancies in technology. This is a social tragedy with rising unemployment. But that also leaves us with potential economic growth. The companies concerned are currently able to put people to work. They can contribute to the economy. But those people aren't here. Does Mr Wiersma share my view, also in the light of what was changed last week during the round table, that we should make a very strong commitment to training and also to fundamental research?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u75	This is taken from my heart, so I'll try to keep it short. If you have followed all my contributions in this Chamber over the past four years, you know that I talk about education almost every time. I think that's super important. I fully agree with you that there is a huge opportunity for people, as well as for technology. We need the people who choose technology very much. So we should also better choose who we admit to what training. Your party is not always the biggest supporter of that, but perhaps after today. I hope so. Because those choices are important. We want training for what we need in the Netherlands and in the labour market. Then we must also dare to say that we may need some training less. And I think it's important that you do that for a lifetime, so that we give everyone the right to education at the beginning of their further education. We must also make this visible and tangible, without thresholds. By the way, this is also something that lies in the government's growth strategy, but a little bit remains. I would therefore ask the Cabinet to come up with some options on this point so that we can also take them with us in the formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u76	Every time we discuss this with the rulers, reference is made to the Technics Pact. That has been going on for years, but those tens of thousands of structural vacancies in the engineering industry continue to exist. Does Mr Wiersma share my view that the rulers should make a greater effort to overcome these deficits and to achieve the chance of creating jobs and economic growth?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u77	Harder, and then on the same road: I think we should tap out of another keg. What I just said is that we're looking even more specifically at who we need. Artificial intelligence sounds like far from your bed, but it's very close, with lots of innovations. If you type something on Google, it's all artificial intelligence; we use it every day. I think it's weird that we have a student break at that school. Of course, that's actually insane. We need those students very much. For the past four years, I've been asking the cabinet to remove the student stop. But that means that sometimes there is no money going to other training courses. Then the whole field of education will be on its back legs. Then I hope you will join me in helping them think along, because these are the challenges of the Netherlands. We have to make those choices, and I hope you'll make them with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u78	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u79	Finally, investment is also a concern. The Netherlands is a country of ideas. For example, we recently saw students making the first electric car on PET bottles, the Luca. Or we see students who make a ventilator in two and a half weeks. In fact, we in the Netherlands think of everything. But using those ideas and really bringing them to the market, with a difficult word "valorisation" and making jobs and money, we're not doing enough. Does the Cabinet share this analysis? Let me give you two examples. There are compelling rules, and there are wonderful ideas. I just mentioned artificial intelligence: we have SkinVision, a beautiful company that detects skin cancer with artificial intelligence. Or, when it comes to potatoes, we see CRISPR-Cas at HZPC, which makes new crops. But what can we do about the complex bureaucracy and rules, which often means that these innovations do not come off the ground or even disappear abroad? Can we create a special aid window for this type of innovation and entrepreneurs? Where can they knock on the door? I'll ask the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Then start-ups and scale-ups. The analysis is that we're losing opportunities here. What's the government's approach to that? 'Cause take a great company like Lightyear. That's what deep tech does, solar panels for Tesla's. But it is threatening to leave abroad, because it is not getting the funding done here. How do we prevent that? And is the cabinet also willing to come up with a number of options on this very wide scale and start-up agenda, a kind of wish list for a new cabinet, so that we can make the choices that are still needed? Mr. Chairman. I come to my next block, fair trade. VDL is in that too, I say to Mr Öztürk. What was already under pressure in the pre-corona period is now being enlarged. I mentioned all that shopkeeper who is competing from Amazon, or the shopping street where the same entrepreneur sees more and more shops leaving, sometimes because of high rental prices. Unfair trade makes it even more difficult for our entrepreneurs. Therefore, a platform such as AliExpress should be subject to the same rules as for physical shops and Dutch web stores. How's that going? What is the situation with regard to ensuring that AliExpress complies with the safety rules, for example by ensuring that this is also responsible as a platform for the products sold through this platform? And take VDL, which lost an order to China for 259 electric buses, while that Chinese company receives state aid. We don't want that. And what about import duties for products from China: up to €150 you don't pay them. How's this going? There is more pressure: important companies that are now attractive to parties, technology that we want to keep in the Netherlands and jobs that we do not want to lose. The blows are heavy. What if you work at VDL and hear that BMW is leaving, or if you're in training at Tata Steel and you don't know if you're gonna be there in six months? We got these signatures from VDL this morning, on behalf of 5,000 people. I've got them right here. I have received them on behalf of a number of colleagues, but I would also like to hand them over to the cabinet through you. I would also like to ask the cabinet what we can do for these companies. I have already heard Minister Wiebes say a number of things about this, but I hope that we can also include it in this debate. Mr. Chairman. I see the cabinet...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u80	Before you continue, I see that Mr Öztürk wishes to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u81	Very good that the VVD stands up for VDL Nedcar in Limburg and wants to hand the signatures to the minister, but it has to be a little more. It can't just be "we've received signatures" and "we're going to ask Minister Wiebes"? Deadweight. As spokesman for the VVD Group, what pressure do you put on Mr Wiebes, but also on Mr Rutte, who has an international network, to bring car brands to Limburg, to the Netherlands? And what means do you use to ensure that those 4,800 people who can lose their jobs can still keep their jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u82	Short response, Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u83	We have to do what we can. So we also need to help find new clients. That has already been said, but I wish we could make that even bigger. I would like to make that even broader, if Mr Öztürk will allow me. If you look at what the cabinet is doing now, there are two images. For the short term there is support, very important, and for the long term there is a Growth Fund, also for the earning capital of the Netherlands. That's very good. But that period in between is so important, that period between six months and two years. During this period, things are going back to normal in society, but all these companies do not immediately have the jobs and those assignments back. What are we doing about medium-term reinforcement operations? I do not think that we should look only at VDL, but also more broadly: for example, at Tata Steel. Is there anything better we can do to help them? This is not just about money, but sometimes it is also just about opening up the minister's role-dex to support those companies even better with their specific requests for help. My question to the cabinet is to come up with a medium-term strategy, in addition to the support package we already have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u84	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u85	Mr. Chairman. I also ask this because the cabinet came with an industrial agenda on Friday. If you look at who this industry is, you'll see that this is about 800,000 jobs. That's 12% of our GDP. The challenges we have just mentioned are greater for all those companies. Is the Cabinet prepared to extend this agenda to include a medium-term growth plan for all sectors of activity? We have the company-specific support when there is a real financial need, but it can also be about more help with networks and looking for investors and assignments and about using embassies for export. Do we have a menu like this for the medium term? If not, could the cabinet make it? Finally, two further questions, Mr President. We are very successful in bringing companies to the Netherlands, especially from Britain in the context of the Brexit. If we continue this now, my question is, because this seems to end. Can we intensify this further? I'm doing fine, but I can do better than that. Finally, the investment test on foreign investment in companies of vital importance. We are now doing so retroactively, as the Minister announced in July. Do we explicitly include all that technology, those key technologies, such as artificial intelligence and photonics? This is precisely about the companies that Chinese locusts hunt for. How do we prevent that kind of technology from getting into bad hands and countries? Are we taking that explicitly? Mr. Chairman. I come to my last block: less dependent. Corona increases another important pain point: dependence on other countries. So we didn't have enough mouth caps or breathing equipment available. It also became clear that we are sometimes going to bet too much on production in a few countries. We gave them the key. We therefore need to step up at European level to get them back and to make vital products here again. I would like to ask the Cabinet, building on the discussion on reshoring, to consider other crucial areas than just health care, how we could improve the position of the Netherlands and our investment climate. Is the cabinet prepared to do so? Mr. Chairman. I will end my speech with compliments. In recent months we have also seen the strength of all these Dutch companies, of all those SMEs, of all those beautiful start-ups. With their international networks and all their knowledge and contact with the purchasing markets, our global companies choked off. Whether it was mouth caps, test sticks, sleeping aid for ICUs or ventilators, we were going to find it or make it ourselves very quickly. This shows the highest quality in the Netherlands. We have everything we need to adapt very quickly to new circumstances. Let us cherish that spirit, let us increase that flexibility and let us help all those creative entrepreneurs and all those important companies together to invest the Netherlands out of the crisis. Mr. Chairman. I am happy to give the floor to my colleague Mr Harbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u86	Well, Mr. Harbers, you will have the floor from Mr. Wiersma, on behalf of the VVD. Thank you, Mr. Wiersma. Mr Harbers on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u87	Thank you, Mr President. For decades, we could largely provide our own energy supply. That's gonna change next year. By stopping Groninger gas extraction, we become dependent on energy imports, for example gas imports from Russia. In the coming decades, we'll need that. But that does not mean that we should be dependent for years on gas from Russia or the Middle East or solar power from North Africa. Energy is so important that we must also have security of supply ourselves. That is why we need to give room for the extraction of the remaining gas from the North Sea by means of the investment deduction that will soon be dealt with, to windmills preferably at sea, solar panels preferably on roofs, geothermals, aquathermia and hydrogen and battery storage. In addition, we must also opt for nuclear energy in the clean energy mix by 2050. Because the construction of a nuclear power plant takes more than ten years, decisions must also be taken in the coming period to ensure that we get some new nuclear power plants in the Netherlands in time beyond the current Climate Agreement, which will last until 2030. It is promising that the first parties, including the French EDF, have already come forward spontaneously for the market consultation on which the Dijkhoff motion has been adopted. In 2021, on this basis, it should be made clear how nuclear energy in addition to all other CO-free energy sources can be used in the Netherlands. The inclusion of nuclear energy in the energy mix also helps with the careful handling of space in the Netherlands, as that puzzle is far from right before 2050. With solar and wind energy alone, we don't make it, fill up our landscape and mess it up. The prevention of this and the prevention of too much geopolitical dependence does not need to be free of charge as far as the VVD is concerned. Other CO-free energy sources have not been created free of charge either. In the case of nuclear energy, moreover, there is a great deal that can be done with stable government policies. I'm guessing they're trying to interrupt on this. I'm about to move on to another topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u88	That's good. I shall go first to Mr Van der Lee, on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u89	Yeah, nuclear power. I have often been able to cross swords with Mr Harbers. I'm not gonna do that now, except for one thing. That is that I want to hear from him whether he was not very uncomfortable about it that the report of ENCO, which we are already having a lot of discussion about, turns out to have been written by a fairly recently departed director of Borssele. Does he not think it would be difficult for an independent report to be presented to us, whereas this is actually a coloured position paper of the nuclear sector? Shouldn't that have been made clear right away?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u90	No. I do not find it difficult that reports and studies aimed at simply explaining what can be done in the Netherlands are written by experts. In this case, the Ministry, on the basis of a normal procedure to conduct an investigation, has simply selected an agency that understands nuclear energy. There are a lot of subjects here in the Chamber about studies that are being carried out. I think that the world would be too small if we had studies carried out by organizations that do not understand their subject at all. So I think it is only to be commended that expertise has also been taken into account in this regard. But there is, of course, always the question: yes, we want to talk about nuclear energy, but then it has to come out of the good report. And then the conclusions of this report are challenged. You can discuss whether nuclear energy is really cheaper than other energy. This study says: if you take all the system costs, then nuclear energy scores very well. But that's not the most important thing for the VVD. For us, it is important that we also consider in the energy transition the costs of disproportionately large space installations in the Netherlands and the costs of over-reliance on energy sources abroad. So that doesn't mean I'm taking on the most important conclusion of ENCO anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u91	The latter seems to me to be quite right, because in the letter we received yesterday, in a very neat way, the shortcomings are mentioned, in part. We'll get answers to a series of questions. But what I don't understand, even if I'm moving into your position, is that it's really annoying that there's so much noise about this report. You can just resent that, can't you? Isn't it normal in a report that the names of the researchers are also mentioned? That did not happen, and so we have extra noise in a discussion that we could have just had on all those substantive arguments, which we think differently about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u92	Yeah? Then I'll go to Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u93	Well, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to respond to that. There are many studies now, and this is one of them. For me, the most important thing is the answer that will come out of the market in the coming year, from the market consultation, precisely to see how you get government policy that makes nuclear energy possible in the Netherlands. And no, I don't care so much about that noise. By the way, most of the reports are written by a lot of people; also at the PBL and at other organisations you really don't know who has been involved. It might have been better to say that right, I admit, but it doesn't matter to me for the conclusions of the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u94	I hear Mr Harbers now sketching a very nuanced picture of 2050 and all the choices we have in it, but we also need to talk about those targets until 2030. At least I'd like to talk about that right now. Does Mr Harbers agree with us, and that is also what we see in the KEV 2020 plan that we are not going to meet the 2030 climate targets if we do not start working with sun and wind, on roofs, but also on land?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u95	I'll be on the Climate Note in a minute. But we have two goals to achieve. We have the 2030 target. I have always indicated that nuclear energy is not a realistic option. That is why I have just said that we must now get to work, given the length of implementation of a nuclear power plant, which is longer than 10 years, in order to ensure that the puzzle is correct after 2030. And until 2030, we have to do it with the resources we have. And if you look at the discussions about the RES's, for example, you can see all that awaits us there if we wanted to repeat the trick with windmills and solar parks on land after 2030. I believe that after the next round of Regional Energy Strategies we have gone up to the maximum of what the support for this type of project on land can offer. So yes, it is both until 2030, but also for that much bigger task after 2030. Just think about what should be replaced in the 1930s and 1940s, for example, by gas plants. And if you already say "nuclear energy is not one of them," then I am very curious what options are left to get the energy system right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u96	You can have a lot of discussions about the puzzle after 2030, but what we want to avoid is that this discussion about that puzzle towards 2050 will cause noise about the laying of the puzzle until 2030. So it can't be. It's a good thing the VVD confirms that here, too. The VVD in the House of Representatives believes that we need sun and wind on land towards 2030, and that the discussion on nuclear energy cannot be a reason to postpone complex decisions on the RESs, the regional decision-making for us. Did I get that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u97	I have said from the outset: we must now get to work because it is more than ten years to think up, to develop, to plan, to permit and to build nuclear power stations. So that's after 2030. That does not mean that we have to give ourselves something more to say about it later and say: well, then we are going to have to take a big step at home in these Regional Energy Strategies. I think that the climate policy support base can gain enormously if we look at how to achieve the more difficult solutions, such as more solar panels on roofs rather than on land or how to use more solar rather than wind energy. Otherwise, next year will also be crunching and cracking, and we will not even get to this task in 2030.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u98	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u99	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the climate agreement. Meanwhile, we are on the road for almost a year and a half with the Climate Agreement. The Climate Note and the Climate and Energy Exploratory, which were presented last week, show that it is going very well, especially when you realise that a number of major measures have not yet been taken into account by the PBL. We should therefore not be fooled and simply continue to work to achieve the climate agreement properly. Because that's complicated enough. While hard work is being done on all parts, at the same time the final picture is not yet clear, for example what the final energy infrastructure should look like. This is not clear until the regions have completed their Regional Energy Strategies and the energy infrastructure for energy has been decided. In the regions, the implementation of this renewable energy challenge is now a huge puzzle. The details of the task have been requested from the regions. They then come with preferences for more sun instead of wind and for more small-scale rather than large-scale. The network operators will then be affected and the costs incurred. The network operators will say: we are not going to make this possible in the next ten years. I said it earlier, and now again: if those choices are to be abolished from the bottom up, this will be detrimental to the support for this climate agreement and this climate policy. Then there are all kinds of specific problems, for example that the Regional Energy Strategies will not be final for another year, with a decision by the municipal councils, the representatives of the people. Meanwhile, subsidies for solar and wind farms continue. In fact, it is not uncommon for companies to put pressure on the regions to grant a permit very quickly, because they are running a sort of SDE grant up to 2025. So about projects that have sometimes been going on for years before the RES, it's said: do it quickly, otherwise we won't get it around for the next four years and our grant will go away. How does the Minister intend to bring this into line with the timeline for the RESs, which may lead to different interpretations in a year's time? SDE grants are now being granted to projects where there is no 50% local participation. Is that gonna catch up in the next rounds? In short, on this part alone, we see that the agreements made by the Empire in the Climate Agreement are not always in line with the criteria and timelines of all the associated arrangements. How does the Minister see this? There are two ways to look at the competitiveness and location of our companies. One is the observation that after a year there is a lot; for which compliments. Think of the hydrogen vision. In the meantime, there are also hydrogen visions from all kinds of regions in the country. Last week from Northern Netherlands, from Rijnmond, from Zeeland: the plans come from everywhere. That's good. Think also of the vision of green gas, the vision of the sustainability of the basic industry, the Tiki opinion on the infrastructure needed by industry, Porthos and Athos for the CO capture and storage, a law on geothermal energy and the Energy Main Structure Programme. And that's just a little grip. Then for 2021 the question is, I think, how all these parts come together coherently. See also the opinion of the Council of State for a coherent legislative programme. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. That's one way of looking. The other way of looking, however, is the question that individual entrepreneurs and employers have: what comes when and when? Only the answer to this question will ensure that the leading position of the business community is paid out instead of leading to job and investment leaks abroad. If, for example, I look at the companies that are going to pay the CO levy, I see that these companies intend to make major investments, which they have to do in order to achieve the 14.3 megaton CO reduction. Then they'll have to deal with the CO levy. The deal was: CO levy and financial support for the investments, so stick and carrot. This runs too often at individual company level. That is why three things the Minister of EZK can do for us in order to make the promise that companies here in the Netherlands can become a real frontrunner. One. There are companies that are reluctant to make the big investments because they simply do not have enough security or opportunities in the SDE++. I would ask that the planned adaptation of the SDE++ in 2021 should, as a matter of priority, include realistic sustainability opportunities for these companies, the companies that are going to pay the CO levy, and also provide rapid clarity as well, and that should really be done next year in order to support investment in process efficiency. Because there are quite a few companies for whom that is the only realistic option until 2030. There are companies among them, including chemical companies, that have helped us out in recent months with products that were needed to combat corona. So those are companies you'd like to have here. Two. There are companies that have no clarity about infrastructure, such as access to hydrogen or, as with Chemelot, timely access to CO transport for CO capture and storage. The TICI opinion on this is still paper, but it really needs to be clear in 2021 what is really going to happen in terms of the construction and planning of that infrastructure. Three. The companies that have no potential at all until 2030 because there is no available technology or infrastructure. It has often been about the ceramic industry here in the Chamber over the past few weeks. It is not an isolated example, but is such an example that the cabinet should take this on board, because no company can meet the benchmark here, because it is based on the climate in southern Europe and the techniques for sustainability simply do not exist by 2030. For me, therefore, there is still the question of why the cabinet says that a ceramic company can achieve its objectives. Similar problems also arise in other sectors. I would like to comment on these three points. Fortunately, last Monday, the Minister promised to be ready with the 125 million for bottlenecks as soon as the CO levy was introduced. That will also be necessary, but above all I would like to clarify very quickly how these funds will be used. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u100	Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u101	I'm moving on to another topic now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u102	Then I have Mr Van der Lee and then I have Mrs Agnes Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u103	I hear a whole lobby coming through from the industry and I've seen all those letters. There's no CO-tax yet. It hasn't been entered yet. Even the SDE++ scheme is not yet open. And yet here again a laundry list of additional wishes comes along. Then it's not clear to me. Is this all about clarity? Then there is the question of how to guarantee from the subsidy scheme that a particular company gets something in advance. Or are we talking about more money on top of the 150 million that has already been released? Where the hell is the VVD? Does she stand for the signatures she's signed under the Climate Agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u104	That is precisely what I am asking, the possibilities in terms of the SDE++ grant, what techniques are in there and what we are doing about process efficiency. It starts with clarity. Companies cannot be guaranteed in advance that if they make an application, they will also receive the grant, because it depends on the elements of such a grant application. But they do need to have an insight into what is available at all and what can be subsidised, if only because many of these companies have to deal with maintenance stops that occur once every four, five, six, seven years, in which you build in all that kind of new techniques. If you have a maintenance stop in six years, you're already thinking about what to install, how to design all that and what engineering and so on. Those are much longer deadlines than those we are used to here in the Chamber. And I just want it to work. We agree that this CO2 tax will be introduced, but in the meantime I want it to succeed because companies are more sustainable and because they have been given the opportunities they have been given in the Climate Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u105	Moreover, I am surprised at the interruption of GroenLinks: as if employment does not matter and as if the concerns about it do not matter. I don't understand. Anyway, let me put my question to Mr Harbers. That EUR 125 million pot actually entered into the Climate Agreement as a pot that we have in hand in case it goes wrong. I would like to know from Mr Harbers whether he does not think that a proactive attitude of the cabinet can be expected, just in front, to think with those companies about how to achieve sustainability. 'Cause I think they're ready. The Minister also made a commitment to me. Maybe he can repeat it that morning and tell us exactly what it is going to mean. Doesn't the VVD think that we should invest in front of each other instead of repairing at the back?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u106	I will respond to those two points. One. I very much agree with Mrs Mulder that I should perhaps have mentioned the importance of jobs and investment to Mr Van der Lee in the first place, especially in this kind of time, where too many jobs are under pressure in the Netherlands because of the corona crisis. Two. No, it's not a pot for me that we have up our sleeve. As the Minister said on Monday, I will be ready from the moment that this levy is introduced, so that all companies can report to me if there is a problem. I believe that this pot should be used proactively to see how these companies can be preserved for the Netherlands anyway. It is also appropriate to clarify in good time what is being done with this money, because it is not clear at the moment. We don't know anything more than the pot is here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u107	Mr Van der Lee is somewhat addressed by both Mr Harbers and Mrs Mulder, so he has the opportunity to respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u108	I am very grateful for that. It is precisely for GroenLinks that employment comes first, but my point is that you can only create and maintain it if we go full of these transitions. We should not try to strengthen things from the past, but we should make those transitions possible. That is what has been agreed, and they have not even been implemented, or they are being pushed back on one side, without knowing how it will work out in practice, what subsidies will be paid. I find that very strange. You made that climate agreement. Mrs. Mulder and Mr. Harbers were also in that cockpit meeting. And it hasn't even been implemented yet, or there's got to be things on top again, in a way that I don't think is responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u109	You made your point very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u110	I think we can at least agree on one thing. We want jobs, investments and jobs here, and we all recognise that you will need companies that can make money in a sustainable economy. But first of all, how do we keep these companies here? I am not going to add up, I simply repeat the agreement of the root and stick climate agreement. The addition was done by Mr Van der Lee, who distributed a note a few weeks ago on what else needs to be done in industry. That is his right, but the effect of that is that companies say: we are busy; does it never stop? Go check out all those companies to see what's being done about sustainability. And they also pay a CO levy. I do not think that this is the time to go over it again with additional measures, which were not yet included in the Climate Agreement. Then you really bully the companies out of the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u111	Yes, there goes Mr. Van der Lee again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u112	Yeah, last time. You also saw in the climate and energy exploration that we are going backwards in terms of energy saving. Annual energy savings are falling, especially in these large companies. I've been calling on it so many times that enforcement needs to be stronger. I don't understand why you let these companies get away with it so easily every time and then bring up roots all the time. I never hear of the stick, which should have been used harder for years. We wouldn't have been in the kind of trouble we're in right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u113	Or you'd have had those problems a few years earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u114	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u115	Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few practical concerns. Recently the geothermal project in greenhouse horticulture in Noord-Limburg was killed. The impression is that the State surveillance of the Mines is, in particular, a little behind in knowledge about geothermal energy, so to speak, in relation to Germany, for example, where the same situation is just across the border. There is a supervisor who has much longer experience with mining than in the Netherlands. Since a lot is also expected of geothermal energy, I ask the Minister what he learns from the events in Limburg. One more question about the indirect cost compensation ETS. As one of the few Member States, the Netherlands has not yet decided on a continuation. That's gonna get tight. The costs will be reimbursed one year after that date. So uncertainty as of 2022 means, when we talk about next year's budget, that companies are already dealing with this from 1 January 2021. Does the Minister see that, too? How's he handling that? Then SMEs. The SME impact test shows that SMEs can incur significant additional costs, especially in the built environment, especially in the energy saving of their business buildings. A bottleneck is in business buses and the early write-off by a specific group of SMEs. In all this, the main question is not only "how do we finance it?', where SMEs at Invest-NL are still too often between shore and ship, but also: what action does one get? How do SMEs get good information in time? How can one be made more sustainable? I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr President, concluding. The Netherlands has many opportunities to make sustainable and make money with existing and new techniques and thus really exploit a leading position. Last week we saw a nice example with energy from burning iron powder at the Bavaria brewery. Another fantastic invention here in the Netherlands! But if we are to deliver on all the promises, we must stick to the commitments made with industry, which are ambitious but which must also provide certainty that this is the route on which companies can align their investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u116	Thank you for your contribution, Mr. Harbers. I now turn to Mr Van der Lee. He will be given the floor on behalf of GroenLinks. I see Mrs. Agnes Mulder is already standing by. Mr. Van der Lee, do you know what this is about? I see Mr. Van der Lee doesn't know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u117	I would, of course, like to do Mr Van der Lee justice and ask him that question directly. How does GroenLinks look at this employment and the concerns that exist in business?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u118	He's got to start!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u119	I didn't really get the impression he was gonna talk about that right away. So I thought I'd ask him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u120	I find this very creative. It also has an undermining effect on my speech. I had a very nice build-up in mind, and right now I have to start with employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u121	The advantage is that this does not go away from your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u122	Yeah, I'm really gonna stand for it. It will be evident from my speech. I just said it at the interrupting microphone. I indicated it in response to Mr Wiersma's speech. Now, if you look where we stand, you'll see massive crises caused by humans that damage our economy every day. I call corona, nitrogen, climate, Brexit. We have to deal with our environment differently, with our raw materials, flora and fauna. That really changes the way we can make money. If we do not succeed in shaping these transitions quickly, the earning models of the past will cease to exist and we will not have in time new earning models that will allow us all to have work, which can preserve prosperity and perhaps even increase it, but in a sustainable way. That is at the heart of our thinking, because we want to do these transitions as fairly and as honestly as possible. It's gonna take some packing. This requires a government that is doing more than it is doing now. And I'm gonna explain all that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u123	Well, I think it's a touching story. Proceed, Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Dutch economy is getting hit from all sides in this cabinet period. I'm not gonna repeat them again. The common thread in this crisis is that they are therefore caused by human action, by the exploitation of our raw materials, the climate of life and our flora and fauna. Our literally fossil earning models lean on crossing planetary boundaries. The great damage that this causes is no longer the fear of tomorrow but the harsh reality of today. And that is also a heavy blow to the rulers who are the first to be able to address the state of our economy. Unwittingly, this minister has become a politician of the retreat, the retreat of the classical economy, the retreat of economics. As a liberal, former director of the Market and a fan of the free market, he is confronted with hard limits to growth. Does he agree with me that the accumulation of crises caused by human action forces us to change our economic thinking, to change our structure, because the realization of large transitions is now of existential importance for tomorrow's generation? However, I wonder whether the author of the new growth strategy has already internalised that. When does he really turn into a transition economist? The illusion of eternal growth, driven by the invisible hand of the free market, has now been beaten to the bone. What is needed now is the visible hand of a governing government, which is acting very powerfully to secure broad prosperity for now and the future. This means putting hard limits on the market and consumption of fossil pop products. This means putting scientific knowledge above economic interests, which means breaking extreme inequality and sharing costs, freedoms and opportunities much more fairly, even by investing heavily in growth recovery and crucial transitions. I have seen the strength needed for this in the courageous decision of this Minister to cut off the gas extraction from Slochteren. But after that, the strength of action was lost to an important extent and the Minister lost his glow. I am not talking about the gas extraction crisis now. There will be a separate legislative consultation, and I am now chairman of the Temporary Committee on Natural Gas extraction in Groningen and I cannot say anything about this to the public for the time being. I'm not gonna talk about the corona support either. We think it is very important and we need to strengthen it more broadly, even after yesterday's press conference. But there has already been a debate on this yesterday and there will be another debate on it in the next few days. I focus on climate and the investment fund. Climate policy is, after all, mainly determined by difficult cockpit fights. With regard to Urgenda, the minister, like his predecessor, constantly pursued the facts. He has not taken a leading role here, and too little has come of his central role in managing the climate approach when it comes to what needs to be done in mobility, built environments and agriculture. In addition, his ideological views prevent him from wanting to see the government as a strong director of climate policy. Just as the cabinet in the corona approach continued to rely on our own responsibility for too long, the Minister hopes that the market will naturally propose and implement the solutions to the climate issue. He does not draw from the lessons of economists like Mazzucato the conclusion that is now needed: grab the helm and let go only after the mammoth tanker of the classic economy has finally been brought to a sustainable course. Now that Friday this cabinet failed its last climate exam, is he really going to take that helm and announce additional policies in the short term? 'Cause too much isn't in order. Too many figures have deteriorated since the passing on of the Climate Agreement. The gap was four percentage points in terms of the 49% target, but this has increased further. And of course, the CO levy hasn't been calculated yet, but even if you take it with you, I believe that it produces 14.3 megatons, you'll get 40% reduction and not 49% of this coalition party. There is also a major problem on the stock renewable. The PBL warns: we probably need to ask for more money from European Member States because we ourselves do not have it in order in time. What about the Urgenda target? We're probably not gonna make it, only if there's a complete lockdown and we're gonna have a very soft winter. So: failed, and what are we going to do now? I think it is crucial that there is an additional package. Both to get Urgenda, because that also means: you can no longer exceed 25%. The KEV report shows that this is likely to happen again in 2025: additional measures for Urgenda, additional measures for the 2030 target. I'm expecting a package for February 1st. I hope the cabinet agrees to that. Then we must also zoom in on climate justice, because there are concerns about this too, and rightly so, already appointed by colleagues. These concerns are increased by the low gas price. This means that insulation is less profitable, so we need a firmer isolation program. A motion by Mr Segers/Klaver has already been adopted and I expect a very generous implementation of it. I would also like to talk about the need for action. I told you. Mr Harbers spoke about the legislative programme. Mr Mulder and I once tabled a motion on this subject. This has been implemented, but it has mainly become a laundry list. The Council of State is right to point out that much more clarity is needed on the issue of coherence. How do things relate to each other? (a) planning and planning; (b) sequencing; (c) planning; (c) planning; (d) planning; (d) planning; (e) planning; (e) planning; It is precisely to give clarity to individual citizens and businesses. So I call on the Cabinet to add much more quality, explanation and context to that legislative programme. Is the cabinet prepared to do so? I would like to make a number of substantive suggestions for that additional package that I am asking for. It is a question of the CO levy, which must be tightened immediately in height and reach, because otherwise we are not going to make it. We have often talked about the biomass-based coal plants. We're gonna have to close it faster. We also need to bring this back every year after 2023. If we don't, we're gonna be over 25% again. I hope that the Minister will now wish to do so after the appearance of the KEV. Also on agriculture and mobility: action. Driving accounts is crucial; start with that tomorrow. Then there is the energy saving. I find it really painful to see how much that goes backwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u125	I thought I was waiting, but I hear Mr Van der Lee talking all the time about all the extra packages and measures. I think that a lot of entrepreneurs, businesses and people who are worried about their jobs listen to this debate and hope to hear from us what we are going to do to support them. I do not know whether they regard the additional measures and the additional package that Mr Van der Lee is referring to here as immediate support. What are you saying to those people at VDL who are worried about BMW leaving? I call Tata Steel and the 11,000 jobs there. All those training places that we think are so important to each other. Do you also have economic measures for them that will help them in the short term in keeping their jobs and in finding new investors and assignments? That is the extra package I was calling for, which I hope we will do together. That's what makes people the most of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u126	Look, the future of mobility is electric cars. VDL could survive if electric cars were built. This should be encouraged even more strongly, including at European level. The future of Tata is making steel in a sustainable way, with hydrogen. It is very interesting that the company in Europe that is the furthest from it may be interested in Tata. The odds lie in those transitions, not artificially prolonging the old way of production for a while, while not clarifying the transition path and the instruments that we are going to use in the coming years to strengthen those transitions. It is not a question of having it all in place tomorrow, but of agreeing on the plans and instruments that we are going to use. We need to stick to that and provide certainty about it. This accelerates transitions, accelerates the chances of new earning models and ensures that many more people have long-term jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u127	I'm not saying everything Mr Van der Lee says is bullshit or anything. Take the electric cars. The men of VDL Nedcar are just walking out of the hall, but there is also an electric car made there. But what good is it if you can do that if BMW leaves that factory? My question is: should there not be, in addition to what Mr Van der Lee wants, an extra medium-term economic package to keep those jobs, to attract those clients to VDL and to help Tata Steel with new investments? What are the ideas of GroenLinks about this? Otherwise, we don't even have any more companies to become green and energy neutral at all in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u128	I'm going to talk about my views on the investment fund and how we want to help companies that want to go for these new earning models. I am not in favour of an industrial policy whereby we are going to do customized work from the government for each individual company, especially when it comes to some outdated earning models. We'll maintain it artificially for a long time. That's what the Germans did with their car industry. You can see that BMW, Audi and all brands in Germany are lagging behind when it comes to the transition and behind in the production of electric cars. They're catching up now, but they've waited too long to meet their competitors. It would be very bad to continue with public money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u129	Mr Van der Lee says very meaningful things...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u130	Yes, then we agree, Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u131	...with which we as CDA can certainly agree if you look at the medium and long term. Only the road to it is very important. When we talk about VDL Nedcar, the Fokkers, the aviation industry in the Netherlands, it is indeed important that we make that transition at some point. There is no future without a sustainable transition to e-mobility, a mobility transition, or to shipping or the aviation industry. I think the difference is in the short term. Are we indeed going to set very heavy demands tomorrow and not make investments to help those companies in that transition? If I listen to GroenLinks every now and then, it seems like if those plans were to come through, we would have no aviation industry tomorrow, we would have no automotive industry tomorrow, and we wouldn't have a shipping industry tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u132	I'll tell you a secret. I went to work for GroenLinks in December 1989. It's been a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u133	It's been a long time. That's in the last century.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u134	The short term for you, Mr Wiersma and Mr Harbers, has been going on for 30 years. We've had this discussion for decades. Each time the argument is: we don't move forward, we don't deploy the instruments, we don't reach the targets, because in the short term we have economic bottlenecks. As a result, important choices and important transitions are postponed. We're running into reality right now. Look at the nitrogen crisis! We waited too long. That's what you see in the climate crisis. If we do not intervene and give certainty, even in the longer term, about those transitions with hard instruments that not only promise things on targets, but can also be implemented in practice, we will never get to where we need to be. We are really going to destroy our Dutch economy, which you also have a heart for, and I do not want that. You shouldn't want that either. So you have to achieve your own goals with credible instruments, which are clearly planned in time and which take all companies and Dutch people into the transition. And not as soon as there's a headwind, I see it too, and then we can do something with emergency support. Every day, we can give everyone tailor-made to keep out-of-date earning models going. We can't afford that. We can't do that to our children and our grandchildren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u135	Proceed, Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u136	Well, I'm actually at the bridge to the discussion about the investment fund; that's just what I'm calling it. I'm just trying to avoid that one word. However, I am very much in favour of the idea behind this fund. I just tried to make that clear. Now is the time to invest in the future, also in new earning models that are sustainable, that fit the transitions we have to go through and even accelerate. But those earning models can also be created by using these transitions on parts first. We've let opportunities run by sun and wind for a long time. Others have gone before us. In the case of green hydrogen we have many conditions and many interesting possibilities. That would fit with that fund. By the way, that turned out nicely from the round table conversation we had. Many speakers there are in favour of the idea and the need to invest. The views on how and where are very different. I get that. I think it's important that we make more choices. This is also something that everyone calls us: make more choices! I really think there's more to be done there. It is therefore important not to make the GDP rate and its growth a driving force. That's too old to think. The most important thing is that these transitions are continued. This includes an internal CO price. It needs to be cleverly designed. In the written reply I saw a movement in that and it was also in the motion that Klaver and Segers have submitted to the APB. There were other aspects, and I hope that we will be able to get a long way together. We're talking about it, and there's gonna be another separate debate. The importance of this CO price is crucial. It is also crucial that it is designed in such a way that green hydrogen also has a chance. Because in the beginning that might lead to a little more fossil activity before you can make a very large green catch-up. You have to be able to compare things with each other in a good way and have a method that is stable for the entire duration of that fund. I expect a lot from the cabinet in this area and how it will work out. Then there are other aspects in this area that I would like to emphasise. They have to do with the generation test and with the involvement of the new generation in the future of this fund. I think there is still a lot to be done for the political embedding. That is also apparent from the criticisms of the Council of State and the Court of Auditors. A construction has now been devised to start as quickly as possible. I can at least justify this, but I do believe that there should be a real institutional law, so that the objective, criteria and accountability are clearly anchored. Until then, I think it is important that the Court's budget law is consistently regulated and that every expenditure is carried through a supplementary budget until that institution law is adopted. I have prepared an amendment for this with Mr Snels. Regardless of how you feel about the way we're going to use that money, I think it's important to arrange the bail with an institution law and have clarity about the Chamber's budget right until that law comes into effect. That's it right now about the fund. We've already talked about nuclear power. I shall therefore confine myself to a question to the Minister, because he continues to defend ENCO's report. Does he not agree that it is strange that we only find out afterwards that one of the authors of that report is a former director of Borssele? I really think it's more of a position paper from the nuclear sector than an independent report. In yesterday's letter, I already see some substantive criticism, but I think that it is also wise not to be confronted with this kind of unpleasant surprises for the purity of the debate on nuclear energy, which we are perhaps going to have for many years to come. Then I have one more point about the postcode rose scheme. It's going to be changed: it's going to be a grant. That's all very well. But it is crucial for the support, because it is an instrument that allows people to step into renewable energy without having a roof on which they can build a solar panel. I would like to see a bigger budget for that. I had an amendment in preparation. I was in contact with some members of the coalition. They have already converted it into their own amendment. I would very much like to co-sign it. I told them that, but I'm gonna make it public anyway. I'm sure there's a lot of people who're gonna say that later. I'm also curious about the government's reaction to it. I support it. I'd like to let you know. I have one more question for the Minister and then I will come to the Secretary of State. It's important, too. It's about the grip of the greenhouse of the Stimulation Sustainable Energy Production: 680 million. As a chamber, we've always been told that that's not gonna happen. The revenues from storage of renewable energy would really be spent on that goal. We would not make it a destination levy, because 'you can trust us, we are really going to use it only for that purpose'. So, what's going on? That didn't happen. There's been a hold of 680 million from the greenhouse. I asked where that went. I haven't gotten the list yet. I heard yesterday that the Minister said that it ended up in the nitrogen angle for an important part. I do not think it is a good idea for us to have any clarity about this. Above all, I would ask the cabinet to leave this at 'once, but never again'. Do I get that hard commitment? I have to check with the chairman if the meter is running; my first term is of sixteen minutes. I guess so, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u137	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u138	Then we don't have to rush and I can take a breath. I'd like to move on to the Secretary of State. I don't really feel like she's thinking in transitions. That's partly because of what she says in the media. Even against the corona policy, she calls people to go shopping. But also in the major processes of change I miss the decisiveness of her when it comes to accelerating the transitions. I wonder if I'm wrong about that, or if the Secretary of State can convince me that she's going for it. She has a lot of heart for SMEs. I am curious to see what it has achieved sustainably for SMEs in this cabinet period. On the important subject of digitalisation, besides sustainability, there is not for nothing the second priority, which is also at the heart of all these European packages, and I also have a number of questions that relate to the long term. In itself, I welcome the action taken by the Secretary of State, together with her French colleague, who I believe is even the Minister of digitalization. I understand from the non-verbal reactions that this is not the case, so I am apparently misinformed; then he is also Secretary of State, Mr Delors, a non-paper on the digital service act, a very important subject. There are good things in it when it comes to data sharing, data portability and data interoperability. Kees Verhoeven can say that much better than I do. However, much less is written about structural measures, such as cutting up big tech companies, the frightening five, we know all of them, which have grown by 20% in this period of corona. They were already the largest companies in the world, but they've grown another fifth. The Secretary of State had a bit of a hint in the media that cutting up companies could be an ultimatum remedium. I find that interesting. I'd like to hear more about that. When has the Secretary of State come the moment when, as a political party, we cannot, as the Netherlands alone, but in a European context, build up the enormous market power of these companies, which not only have enormous value, but also with a huge amount of services in many markets at the same time with a huge amount of information, cannot cut back a little more structuralally, by cutting them up, or by banning them from offering too many services at the same time? I would like to hear her long-term thinking about digitisation on this point. Finally, I am finished, within my speaking time, I would like to say a word of thanks to all the members of the two governments. It is an unprecedentedly difficult time, also in the area of economic affairs and climate, because of the gas extraction, because of climate change, because of corona, and later on also because of brexit. A lot of work needs to be done. I think that more colleagues would actually have wanted and should have had to be able to handle all the work. I thank them very much for all the work that has been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u139	Thank you. Mr Van Raan has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u140	I am very much in favour of Mr Van der Lee's speech...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u141	That sounds a little economical.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u142	........................................................................... I really don't want to change that. I also see that GroenLinks has adapted its position on biomass nationwide to the new insights. The Party for Animals had these insights for some time now, but GroenLinks in rural areas as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u143	So much for the compliments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u144	My question is: what is the message now, given the urgency with which Mr Van der Lee built his speech on climate change, to all those aldermen and provincial directors in the country, all those Green Left leaders who are nevertheless involved in making biomass plants possible? Is he willing to make the call here and now to stop?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u145	Yes. In our electoral programme, at least the draft programme, because we have a conference which is being made very clear, as I said earlier in the Chamber, that we want to get rid of woody biomass for the generation of electricity and heat as quickly as possible. That's what we're saying. At the same time, we have also had a responsibility to recognise this in the use of biomass, even though we were critical of it because there were not enough control options. But I also have to recognise that our house of Thorbecke has been constructed in such a way that agreements have been made, contracts have been concluded and grant decisions have been issued. And we can't just break everything open. That's not what I'm asking on all fronts. You ask: what is your call? My appeal is clear, but everyone has to look within their own responsibilities and possibilities to see how that transition can be met. You have to do other things instead, because you are losing a lot of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u146	I'll close very briefly. I note, however, that Mr Van der Lee behaves in the same way as the VVD in this sense: 'Alas, agreements have been made. We know we have to stop, but we have to finish first." And the first thing to finish is to extend completely unsustainable energy production. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u147	No, you won't listen. That is a recognizable response from Mr Van Raan; we see that he is not listening very carefully. Look, I was the first one, I think, in the first week that I was a Member of Parliament here, to start talking about cutting out coal power plants and cutting out biomass. I've always carried that out, and the VVD hasn't. I have also started calling very early on to limit the use of biomass when it comes to generating heat. The VVD didn't do that either. Also when it comes to the sustainability framework and the further tightening up of the reduction of biomass, we go far beyond the VVD. I'm sorry to say that about you, VVD colleagues, but that was the question. That's the benchmark in this. I was thrown into one pile with the VVD, and I'm just trying to create some distance. I thought you'd notice that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u148	The VVD's letting it go. Thank you, Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u149	Thank you, Chairman, for your coulance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u150	You, too, for your contribution. Then, before I give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder, I would like to suspend for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u151	I give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u152	A very good morning. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's thank you today, and that affects me. We don't control everything ourselves, we know. And certainly in the middle of this corona time there is a lot to be thankful for. It is good that we take the time to think about that. In addition to thanking each other, we need perspective. Last year I indicated that hydrogen and the greening of energy infrastructure and industry are essential, and that we want to make all these steps together with our SMEs and our residents. Mr. Chairman. This year we received the government's vision of hydrogen. The ink is not dry yet, or countries like Germany and France, like the EU, have presented concrete strategies for the scaling up of hydrogen, with appropriate budgets. Unfortunately, the cabinet vision is not so concrete yet. Our group wonders how the budgets envisaged by the cabinet can also be sufficient. Are the instruments suitable? To what extent should there be a tooth to keep Europeans ahead? Last month, during the note conference, the Minister indicated that he had some EUR 500 million on the shelf. I also asked him about its subdivision. In the written reply, he added 290 million euros. How's that? And what role does the Minister for Hydrogen see within the Growth Fund? Mr. Chairman. Before the summer, I tabled a motion with Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union on the Just Transition Fund and how we should use it in our country. It is good that we are going to use the available European money and so we are also going to bet in the Netherlands. At the JTF I will cut it a little bit, President-in-Office of the Council, specifically linking it with hydrogen, and during the debate I indicated that the bulk should go to the North Netherlands. The reason for this is a sad one, because we are completely closing the gas tap in Groningen because of the misery it causes in Groningen. It is also a good thing that the gas tap is closing, and at the same time we know that 20,000 jobs are going to disappear in the North of the Netherlands; 20,000 jobs. I'm in Drenthe with 7,000 families. Those are huge numbers. The European Commission sees that as well. Fortunately, at PVV and Forum for Democracy, after all parties supported this motion. This solidarity, also from the rest of the Netherlands, with Groningen and the North Netherlands does us good. The bulk, as I mentioned it, is at least half plus one for our group. I want to be absolutely clear about that. We want the Secretary of State or the Minister to carry out the motion in that way. Mr. Chairman. Then there is also a very large amount of this extra money that we had not taken into account in any plan. This is therefore available for other regions, which are also so close to our hearts, such as Zeeland and Limburg, where the industrial clusters are well engaged in greening. The call in the motion is to work together with the North Netherlands and the other regions in the Netherlands to develop a JTF plan and to focus specifically on the further development of hydrogen. Can the Minister tell the Secretary of State what has happened in this area over the last four months? To what extent has the government already discussed this with the North Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u153	Hydrogen and the Just Transition Fund also appeal to me very much, not least because I am a northerner. I share Mrs Mulder's concern about job losses, but does Mrs Mulder share my view that the resources of the Just Transition Fund should be earmarked in those areas where labour market disruptions are involved? It is not for nothing that Groningen is going to make it easy for the North Netherlands, because the labour market is not limited to a provincial border.... has been designated by the European Commission as targeted area. Shouldn't the funds from the Just Transition Fund be concentrated in the North of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u154	If you look at the European Commission's explanatory statement on where the money should go, you will see that Groningen is explicitly capable of doing so. The other regions are also mentioned. In my motion before the summer, I wanted to point out that the bulk should also go to the North of the Netherlands, precisely because Mr Moorlag indicates here. In that sense, we can find each other. At the same time, we have these other beautiful regions. That extra money that now falls to us at once is what we paid for ourselves in Brussels, but of course we also have to get it back. We can also use it for other parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u155	I'm not going along with that reasoning. Noord-Nederland, Groningen, is not considered targetted area for nothing. Choosing half plus one means that 49.99% goes to other parts of the country. Is that fair if you look at what has happened in the past with gas benefits and the Economic Structure Fund? 1% of the natural gas benefits from the FES have ended up in the north of the Netherlands, 88% have ended up in the Randstad and the remaining funds have ended up in the other regions. Surely it is only fair that this money should be concentrated in the North of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u156	The colleague of the PvdA asks to use the money exclusively for Groningen. That can, of course, be the position of the PvdA Group. I tabled that motion before the summer because I thought it was real that a majority of that money would go to the North of the Netherlands, precisely because of the loss of those 20,000 jobs. That's a hell of a lot of them. I think I come a long way with Mr Moorlag, but I also see the problems in other regions and employment there. I think it's fair if there's a part of it going there. Most of them have to go to the North of the Netherlands; I have always been absolutely clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u157	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u158	Mr. Chairman. There are several funds in Europe to support the regions, each with its own purpose and criteria. That must also be done right. Another important fund is the ERDF, the European Regional Development Fund. If you are eligible as a region for funding from this fund, it is unfortunately not a luxury. In the Netherlands, we have three transition regions, Flevoland, Friesland and Drenthe, which could easily claim this fund. Does the government intend to meet these regions in accordance with the European criteria? Mr. Chairman. In addition to the resources and instruments available, there are still a number of bottlenecks for the development of hydrogen. It was recently announced that the European Commission is putting a stop to the Dutch plans to subsidise green hydrogen production. This, of course, hampers the development of hydrogen projects. I asked Mr Timmermans about this during a round table in the House of Representatives. He is willing to think along with the Netherlands. To what extent has the Minister already taken that up and is he keeping up the momentum? Following my motion on hydrogen last year, the government would investigate the advantages and disadvantages of linking hydrogen production with wind at sea through integrated tenders by the summer of 2020. It should, inter alia, focus on the possibility, in the long term, of a certain amount of electrolysis capacity at wind landing sites at sea. I'd like to hear from the Minister about this investigation. What are the preliminary conclusions? When will the Chamber be informed? Mr. Chairman. Then there are two bottlenecks that inhibit the development of hydrogen. We understand that, unlike other European countries, hydrogen supplies are taxed in the same way as natural gas, because hydrogen is not defined separately in the Environmental Tax Act. There is also no recognised European harmonised certification for green hydrogen. Green hydrogen production is also an important requirement for cost efficiency. Is the Minister aware of these bottlenecks? What solutions does he have in mind to solve them? Mr. Chairman. Another flashback to last year. We discussed with each other how we take the opportunities for the industry in our clusters in Zeeland, at Chemelot, in the North of the Netherlands and not to forget in the sixth cluster quickly and well. I ask the Minister, with the clusters, to make the no-regret measures concrete in the short term, so that they can be made on time when investment is needed. In times of covid that comes very precisely, witnessing the debate I just had with colleague Van der Lee. Many companies have had to take a big interest in their reserves and we ask them to invest and impose a tax on them. I am counting on a minister who is proactively looking at the sustainability possibilities with, for example, beautiful family businesses from the sixth cluster in Overijssel. The government will also have to show that it will be able to reach the maximum degree of flexibility, i.e. the no-regret measures. I also discussed this with the Minister earlier this week during the legal treatment of the levy. I think he would go into that further. Mr. Chairman. Then the SME impact test. At the beginning of October, when it came to this issue, the Minister said the following: if SMEs cease to operate, the Dutch economy will cease to operate. And I agree. We will therefore have to ensure that SMEs are included. The Minister is also in talks with SMEs in the Netherlands. What is the outcome of this, in particular with regard to the SME impact test, the financing issue and the role of Invest-NL in it? Does the Minister think it's going well with Invest-NL? For example, I spoke with the company MijnWater from Limburg, which I really thought was: that is by definition a company that should use Invest-NL. Well, then that seems to be something else. Would the Minister like to take another look at that? To what extent will the Minister also ensure that the Growth Fund becomes available to SMEs? Did you think about residents on the basis of that? For example, has the cabinet examined variants where residents could get joint drawing rights on the growth fund to invest together in their homes and renewable energy? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The locals. I just told you about the Wopke-Wiebes fund. The PBL shows that the inhabitants are still completely inadequate in terms of the developments in their immediate living environment when it comes to the energy transition. There is a need for a viable and affordable perspective. In Ermelo we see a good example of this. In a pilot running there, residents themselves get a budget that allows them to invest in measures that suit them and their homes. Is the Minister prepared to leave residents more at the wheel and learn from pilots like those in Ermelo? Could the Wopke-Wiebes fund possibly be used for this purpose? Another inspirational example. We were on a working visit in Leeuwarden, where they use a collective heat system, consisting of two heat pumps placed in the neighborhood with which 132 rentals are sustainably heated. With this flexible system, it will be possible to switch to geothermal energy for the collective heat supply at a later date. How does the Minister view this type of collective solution and its role in making the built environment more sustainable? Mr. Chairman. An action perspective for residents also requires that they can make the right choice and that the government helps them to do so. In 2017 I therefore asked the government in a motion to make alternatives to the central heating boiler more attractive by gradually limiting the supply of heating systems to hybrid heat systems and other sustainable alternatives. However, more than 400,000 CV boilers were sold in 2019 and the sale of hybrid systems remains behind. Fortunately, the Minister of the Interior now sees hybrid heat pumps as a relatively cost-effective measure, as a stopover to completely natural gas-free. In what way does the Minister of EZK, together with BZK's, promote the use of hybrid heat pumps and thus implement our motion? Mr. Chairman. In 2016 I advocated a simple energy co-operative scheme in the budget. In the coalition agreement, we fought for a separate arrangement for those energy cooperatives that would make it easier for residents to participate in renewable energy projects in their immediate surroundings. I am very pleased that this simplified scheme is now in place and will enter into force on 1 April 2021. We can even see that there seems to be an enormous amount of enthusiasm for this new arrangement. In order to ensure that next year as many energy cooperatives as possible, including residents, can participate, I tabled an amendment together with my colleague, Mr Sienot, to increase the budget in advance. Mr. Chairman. Let me be a coulant. I've been working on this for so long. So maybe I was a little aggressive, I thought: I think it should be an amendment from sec me and Mr Sienot. But we have to realize this together. Let me take the first step towards Mr Van der Lee and Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union. Mr. Chairman. Last Friday, the annual climate and energy exploration was presented. We saw that it is still quite a challenge to meet our 2030 climate targets. We also see that the corona crisis affects our emissions, even though it will be partly temporary. At present, according to the KEV, there would be a 15% deficit by 2030. Measures such as the CO levy for industry, CCS, natural gas-free neighborhoods and so on have not yet been included. Can the Minister tell us what we are going to say if these measures are taken into account? Then what are we short to achieve the 2030 target? What possibilities does the Minister see for achieving this goal? Mr. Chairman. Towards 2030, we consider it important that the agreements be implemented as soon as possible. And we want to make a firm commitment to a sustainable energy mix. That includes nuclear energy, as far as we are concerned. Mr. Chairman. We also want to do as much European as possible for the whole of climate policy. We want a fair playing field for our companies. Climate change also does not respect national borders. Therefore: source policy, strengthened standards. Finally, the North Sea Agreement. The North Sea Agreement is of great importance for the further roll-out of all our plans for windmills at sea. Within this agreement, all the ways in which we have the North Sea available to us are reflected, for example: shipping, wind energy, gas extraction, fisheries and nature. We have a separate debate on this on 10 December. But I do not want to rule out the fact that, in the run-up to that debate, I am going to hand in a few more amendments to this budget in order to make that development possible properly, in order to support that agreement. Mr. Chairman. I also support the request for an answer to the questions of the VVD and GroenLinks on the legislative programme. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u159	Thank you. Mrs Beckerman has a short question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u160	If it is to be short, Mr. President, Mrs. Agnes Mulder is right to ask the question about the failure of the cabinet to meet the climate targets. At the same time, however, households are being hunted for costs. 650,000 households are in energy poverty. I wonder if the CDA thinks that enough is being done to help those households.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u161	Last year, there was that concern. Then there was interference in the energy bill. That's $100 off. That was a good development. This report's just been here this week. Mr Kops mentioned it as well. I would like to have a serious reaction from the Minister. How's he looking at that? They also say at TNO: perhaps we need to make much more use of other areas in the built-up environment, for example business areas. Let's take an integral look at that and not do quickies in the House of Representatives over the back of these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u162	I'm sorry, I was actually expecting a little closer. "Don't be quick about these people's backs." We've known these numbers for a long time. We are having the big debate on the budget today. And then Mrs. Agnes Mulder says, "Let's not do quickies." My simple question was: can we build up together, precisely because this energy poverty is so great and even more painful pressure because everyone has to stay home? People should literally choose: the heating on or hot food. And then we can come up with solutions just today, for example, to speed up the isolation of these homes, for example to ensure that much more collective solar panels are installed? Those aren't quickies, are they? That's what people have been waiting for for years. Is the CDA prepared to do so, I ask through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u163	I wouldn't say that in the microphone, Mr. Graus. Mrs. Agnes Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u164	We have just tabled an amendment to it with Mr Sienot, so if Mrs Becker wants to participate in it too, in order to enable the energy transition on these roofs together. We're going to make a lot of money available for that. And for a serious reaction to the report referred to by Mrs Becker, she also finds me on her side.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u165	Thank you, Mrs Agnes Mulder. Soon Mr. Graus will get a gag order... I now give the floor to Mr Amhaouch on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u166	Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis is undoubtedly the biggest attack on our economy after World War II. This poses a direct threat to what the CDA believes should be about in the economy: building security of life, taking care of bread on the shelf, for yourself and for the people around you, at home, in your family or in your company. The CDA believes that this security of existence can best be found in a fair economy, the principles of which we see in the Rhineland-Palatinate's corporate tradition: value-driven, long-term oriented, with beautiful innovations and with an eye for others and our environment. Family businesses are important carriers, perhaps even the guardians of the fair economy according to the Rhineland principle. My colleague Hilde Palland wrote an initiative paper on this type of entrepreneurship. Last year, the CDA filed a motion to collect more figures on family businesses. It was recently executed. This year we would like to ask the Secretary of State to look more closely at the factors that contribute to smooth business succession, and how to strengthen it. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. For a fair economy, large companies and also companies with stock exchange quotations are just as relevant as SMEs. Thousands of SMEs are the links and chains of major international players such as ASML, Philips and DSM. In a fair economy, we need all players, but on the basis of a level playing field and a fair contribution. What does the Minister think of Levinus Timmerman's plea, the former High Council adviser, that companies should be more detached from the profit interests of shareholders, and should become even more part of society, for example by setting a goal, a purpose, a reason for existence as a basis for shareholders? In order to protect our fair economy from activist shareholders and hostile takeovers, the Chamber adopted a new legal reflection period of 250 days for corporate boards before the summer in the event of a hostile takeover. That protection is good, but it is far from enough. Because even SMEs without stock exchange listing, which are not covered by the AFM threshold but which are important for economic security, are vulnerable to unwanted takeovers and investments in those companies outside the scope of government. What does the Cabinet do to protect these companies? Recently, the CDA asked questions about the acquisition of a small inspection body in Friesland for recreational craft by a Chinese company. Apparently innocent, but these companies and their knowledge are the Achilles heel of the Dutch economy. Does the Minister agree? And more importantly, how does the Netherlands anticipate the increase in the impact of investment from China in the Netherlands and the European Union? Why has the announced legislation of a system of introduction tests been pushed further backwards, now that the urgency is greater than ever? Mr. Chairman. In a fair economy, services are organised close to people and businesses. However, this service is changing. The Chamber of Commerce is physically withdrawing from the region, the large system banks are increasingly operating from their headquarters and personal contact makes way for anonymous online interface. Our impression is that this has a negative impact on relatively small funding applications, up to €250,000, which means that an SME entrepreneur or a small family business can hardly go to one of the large system banks. The CDA wants to break through this and would like to ask the Cabinet, together with the Volksbank, Qredits and other relevant parties, to seriously investigate the return of more SME banks for small financing, rooted in the region. With this we think there will be a more diverse offer. Then I'll go to the block about the manufacturing industry. The manufacturing industry traditionally occupies an important place in the Dutch economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u167	I saw Mr Öztürk running. Probably has something to do with the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u168	I have had several years of discussion and exchange of views with Mr Amhaouch on lending. Qredits, 7.75% interest plus 1% storage. Are they helping the young entrepreneurs who are starting out? No. For years we have also had the discussion with you that the banks in the Netherlands are Europe's worst lenders. You told me every year: wait a minute, the Secretary of State is in the process of communicating. Do you think that over the past three years, it has been done that entrepreneurs, especially small entrepreneurs, family businesses you are talking about, have been given the necessary support to obtain credit?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u169	These are justified questions from Mr Öztürk and we have discussed them more often in recent years. Looking at the financing of SMEs and small businesses, I think we have made great strides with the financiers, not the large system banks. You can discuss interest rates, but it is precisely Qredits who helped small businesses in the regions in this corona crisis. And so there are a number of others, but they also have difficulties in doing their job better in the long term. There's got to be good funding. What does bother me is the big system banks. I dare say that here. The system banks have clearly stated that they will be part of the solution in this corona crisis. One thing they have done well, and that is the postponement of repayment and interest. There is nothing to be said about that, but when I see that the SCP, which applies to small financing up to €50,000, has been separated from the 750 million that is there, there is almost a market failure. You can't say there's no need for it at this time. The big system banks have to do what they're good at. This is about the big financiers and the big SMEs, but I think there is a gap at the bottom, namely the small financing up to €250,000, and that we really need to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u170	After three years, I am pleased to finally hear from the CDA that the big system banks have not taken their social responsibility and let the small entrepreneur burst. That's what the CDA actually says after three years, when we've been warning about that for three years. My second point is that we have an interest rate of 8% to 9%. Are you helping the little entrepreneur? We need to make some money now if we're gonna raise our money at the bank. We're in minimum interest time. Then how can you indicate that you're helping the little entrepreneur? That is what the cabinet will finally help you tackle these big banks, and it will help you reduce usury interest rates and provide opportunities for those entrepreneurs. In addition, there are all kinds of schemes that are not used very much. This Secretary of State was going to warn all those entrepreneurs that they could make use of it, but that has still not happened. So it is also your own party that, in my opinion, has not helped the small entrepreneur in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u171	And the question? This gives me the opportunity to make my point again. In my view, the system banks have become too large for the small funding. The system banks are good at the big business. They're gonna have to keep doing that. We too must have large banks. You don't hear me about that, but as far as the small financing, from €50,000 to €250,000 is concerned, it's the question whether system banks can do that successfully in the future, especially when we have to help the companies through post-corona. Even now in this corona crisis, that's already an issue. I think we should see if we can force a breakthrough in this. There's nothing wrong with that. Then there is also a more diverse funding offer in the Netherlands, where you can choose between the big boys and choose between financiers who provide small loans in your own region.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u172	Proceed, Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I need to take a look. I had started my work on the manufacturing industry. I have a special heart for that. The manufacturing industry traditionally occupies an important place in the Dutch economy. The CDA considers it important that it stays that way and tabled a motion on this matter together with the VVD last year. The corona crisis but also developments such as those at Apollo Vredestein in Enschede and VDL Nedcar in Born, make the execution of this motion even more important, if we want to remain a country where beautiful products are produced that will pass the whole world. Is the cabinet prepared to do everything in its power to enable the development of VDL Nedcar in South and Central Limburg? How does the Minister think that VDL Nedcar could contribute to the future earning capacity of the Netherlands? Is this chefsache for the Cabinet? We are talking about thousands of families in a very important socio-economically vulnerable region. We have just discussed this with GroenLinks in the debate. The PVV and the VVD also mentioned this. I would therefore like to pay particular attention to these many jobs at stake. Mr. Chairman. The CDA has a number of ideas about strengthening the Dutch manufacturing industry. First of all, give work rather than grant. With its own procurement policy, the government can contribute to the re-filling of empty order portfolios of companies. The programme follow-up Improved Contracting Parties provides support to local authorities, such as municipalities. However, this is a plan without a budget. We have an amendment to grant it. I'd like a response. Secondly, make sure that the Dutch manufacturing industry is better, smarter and more sustainable than the rest of the world. Only then will our companies win the competitive battle with low-wage countries elsewhere. However, companies must be able to continue to innovate their processes. Is the Secretary of State prepared to explore a process innovation incentive tool for this purpose, accessible to broad SMEs, which companies are specifically asking for? We are considering a motion on this point. Thirdly, get production back to the Netherlands, or reshoring. Mr Wiersma has already mentioned this. It is a theme that our group leader Pieter Heerma put on the agenda with the support of many in the Chamber. Reshoring production in the manufacturing industry can contribute on the one hand to innovation, sustainability and digitisation of our economy, and on the other hand to the strategic autonomy of the Netherlands and Europe. We have a motion for a resolution. Fourthly, make better use of European resources. It is good that the cabinet in the Corona Support and Restoration Package provides more resources for co-financing EU programmes for Dutch entrepreneurs. At the same time, there is a concern that manufacturing companies in the maritime sector, the automotive or aviation industry, for example, may be in danger of disappearing from the Netherlands, because other Member States are investing heavily in these sectors with European funds, for example from the RRF, the EU corona fund, where the Netherlands is not doing so at present. That's right, I'll ask the Minister. And is it his impression that this will make Dutch competitiveness worse and put a sector such as the maritime industry at a disadvantage? Mr. Chairman. Then I'll jump to the National Growth Fund. Fit for a fair economy has also dared to look further ahead to tomorrow's economy or even the day after tomorrow, so that we can pass on our prosperity today to the generations after us. To this end, the National Growth Fund, or the Wopke-Wiebes Fund, has been created. It's a bold and promising initiative. When it comes to the National Growth Fund, the comparison with Invest-NL is pressing. We are not satisfied with the functioning of Invest-NL, especially because projects do not come loose and resources remain on the shelf. Can the Minister brief us on this? Which projects have been funded with or through Invest-NL? For the CDA, the regions are a crucial issue, because in a fair economy, we all need to reap the benefits of what we bring together. As far as the CDA is concerned, this means that the resources from the National Growth Fund should not be confined to the most promising parts of our country in the short term. Does the Minister agree with the CDA? Can he explain what the phrase in the letter, namely 'the committee can also put into practice a reasonable distribution of investments in the different regions through time into the advisory process'? How do I interpret "can" and "reasonable"? Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, whether the Minister can indicate the specific date on which the National Growth Fund opens for the second round. Many fellow governments and companies have asked for this so that they can prepare a solid proposition. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u174	Mr Amhaouch shares a number of hobbies with me: SMEs, the manufacturing industry, regional distribution. We have regional development companies. They finance and capitalize companies that have a need for financing. These are usually financings that are not so large that they are eligible for the Growth Fund, but if you look at the manufacturing industry that is also affected by corona.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Does Mr Amhaouch share my view that it is a very efficient and effective method of increasing the capitalization of regional development companies, so that they also have credit facilities for business in a budget neutral way or even in a cost-effective way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u175	This is an important question. I am very pleased that we have received three regional development companies in recent years: Flevoland, Utrecht and Zeeland. The whole country is now covered by regional development companies, in the provinces, close to the companies. I agree, but I have another question, through the chairman, to the Minister. We've talked about this before. What is the significance of regional development companies in cooperation with Invest-NL? Because at the time, at Invest-NL, we discussed extensively the need to put regional development companies in a position, with funding, so that they can continue their good work. I think that is exactly what Mr Moorlag is describing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u176	Thank you. Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u177	No, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u178	Go on, then. That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u179	In line with Mr Van der Lee's view, he is not here at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u180	Yeah, he's here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u181	He made a fair point. In this corona crisis from March there has been a lot of applause for the people in the care, and rightly so. Now they're back on their feet to take care of everyone. However, in the light of the work we do as economic spokesmen, I have also received compliments from business, from SMEs and large businesses for how quickly the officials or people in the implementation organisations have done their work, day and night; and that is what is still going on. I know that we are not allowed to hand over flowers in corona time, we are doing a lot through the video, but I would like to present a virtual flower on behalf of the Chamber or on behalf of my colleagues to all those people who do this work in the ministries, in the municipalities, in the provinces and in the execution organisations. And yes, we continue to grumbling occasionally, even as MPs, but the work is very much appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u182	Thank you, Mr. Amhaouch. I now give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u183	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. The last climate budget of the cabinet, which calls itself "the greenest cabinet ever." But the climate policy of this cabinet is getting a grossly inadequate over and over again. The Council of State's assessment is devastating: the climate targets are not being met, there is no real progress, the final goal is not being seen. The PBL is also tough and believes that the pace must double in order to reach the 2030 reduction target. "Yes," say the cabinet, "but there aren't plans yet included." But you're not gonna get there with those plans, either. Next, the cabinet says: the cabinet proposes to the next cabinet to decide on the implementation of the additional CO reduction statement by means of a government agreement. That's like asking the Titanic band to play another tune. This is not the time to sit back, sit down and hope that there will be an even greener "greenest cabinet ever." Climate policy must be radically different. It is precisely now that we need to ensure green recovery, green jobs, climate policies that will benefit households and SMEs. There are alternatives that we can tackle at the same time the climate crisis, the housing crisis, the economic crisis and inequality. It's just now that's what we need. 650,000 households are in energy poverty. Sometimes people have to literally choose between a warm house or a hot meal. Now that everyone has to stay at home, the energy bill is running up. Sometimes people go to places where you can stay warm for free, like the library, but they close now too. This is getting people into a lot of trouble. We are therefore happy to put forward proposals that not only address the climate crisis, but also address energy poverty, combat the housing crisis and create jobs. Today, therefore, we are proposing to reduce the energy bill for households, to isolate and improve massively bad homes and to ensure that we put collective solar panels on all rooftops. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands generates the least renewable energy of all European countries. In order to achieve the target of 14% renewable energy by 2020, the government does not invest extra in renewable energy. No, it's buying a tailgate in Denmark. The cabinet is going to spend 200 million on Denmark in order to achieve the goal of renewable energy on paper. So all Dutch people see their energy bill rising, but that money is not being invested in the Netherlands. No, that goes to Denmark. The climate is not helping at all, while energy poverty is increasing. But what does Friday's pieces show? Investing 200 million in Denmark is not even enough. I really want a reaction to that. For years, the SP has advocated an alternative whereby we and ensure that households' energy bills fall and that we generate more renewable energy. If we fill all the suitable roofs of homes with collective solar panels, we will generate more power than households use now. Households now use 21 terawatts of electricity on an annual basis. With solar panels on suitable roofs of only houses can be generated every year between 19 and 35 terawatts. A new study by the top sector Energy shows that in 2050 you can produce no less than 70 terawatts of solar power on roofs of homes, and 12 more on facades. So the Cabinet recognizes this huge potential. In answering my questions, it says that the potential of solar panels on roofs is 59 terawatts. So that's three times as much power as households are using right now. Why is there not a programme with which we place collective solar panels on those suitable roofs? As far as the SP is concerned, we are making it a public energy supply again. This can create many jobs that are very much needed. The cabinet itself says: every 1,000 megawatt is 9,200 years of work. If you take this seriously ambitiously, it could create many tens of thousands of jobs. I'd like a response. Collective solar panels on homes have many more advantages. Households' energy bills can be lowered. With this you can directly help people in energy poverty. Why not? I'll ask the cabinet. And the more we generate on rooftops, the less we have to raise in the open landscape. Why not? I'll ask the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. While there is a huge potential, the cabinet is going to do exactly the opposite. At present, only 4% or 5% of suitable roofs are used. And what's the Cabinet gonna do? It will reduce the subsidy scheme for solar energy on the roof, the netting account and the postcode rose scheme. And who gets hit the hardest with that? Just the people with the lowest incomes. Also for corporations it becomes more difficult to provide rental houses with solar panels and allow tenants to benefit. So we are at the bottom of all European countries in terms of generating renewable energy. We spend money in Denmark to get a little bit on paper anyway. The number of people in energy poverty is increasing, it is threatening to double, and a plan that can potentially create tens of thousands of jobs, which leaves the cabinet behind. I find that incomprehensible. Last year, the SP also submitted a proposal to this budget to isolate and improve massive housing. Do you want me to wait?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u184	It's never been this smooth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u185	Well, that's not so bad. You're gonna have to kick in the foot pedal real hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u186	I have read with great interest the SP election program. I hear the SP on all kinds of opportunities that the cabinet should seize, and Mrs Beckerman makes very valid points, which we also think we should seize, but I see that the SP is also missing a chance. As far as SP is concerned, the ETS may be abolished in Europe. The European Commission may be lifted. We need to get out of the euro. I personally think that this is quite a big pair of pants for a party that is not in the European Parliament itself, but this aside. What is important is that we can do a great deal in Europe for all the problems that Mrs Beckerman is addressing. My question is therefore: does the SP really think that we can achieve climate justice in the Netherlands alone?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u187	First of all, thank you for reading the SP election program. This is a draft; there will be a much better version, so I hope you will have some reading time next Monday. Do I believe that we will only achieve this in the Netherlands? No, I certainly don't believe that. I think that climate is an excellent subject for cooperation. Am I satisfied with all the plans coming from Brussels? No, not that either. I think we have separate debates on this and we have said a lot about it. But let me remind you, for example, of what we have done with the Energy Charter Treaty. There are still treaties in which large companies, and I shall come back to this in a moment when the coal-fired power stations are shut down, can sue countries when, for example, there is a closure of a coal-fired power station. Climate policy is still blocked. Do I think Brussels is doing enough to help people in energy poverty? Well, that may still be interesting, because it is the European Commission that has turned on the Netherlands, so your cabinet, that we are doing too little. So yes, I think we should do more internationally. Do I follow all the proposals that come from Brussels without hesitation? No, and I don't think Mr Sienot does either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u188	Then we find each other there and then I would add that D66 sees that the highway to climate justice really runs across Europe and that the SP often chooses a somewhat bumpy national path. Take the ETS. That is precisely what is causing the large polluters to pay more. We can see that, too. That price is rising; that is what the SP wants to abolish. The European Commission comes up with the Green Deal proposal, which has a major renovation wave, all houses that can be preserved much cheaper. If we use this huge market in Europe, then we can reduce that cost very quickly and we also need to bring less subsidies there. So my question to the SP is actually: do you also see that we need to press these instruments much harder rather than abolishing them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u189	Oh, no, Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry about this. Mr. Sienot, you support a cabinet that calls itself the greenest cabinet ever. On Friday, not for the first time, the Council of State gave its opinion again. Climate targets are not achieved over and over again. The Netherlands is champion of climate goals. We're not gonna make it to the Urgenda target unless it goes badly economically, unless it goes further with the corona crisis. Climate targets are not met. And then Mr Sienot says: that's all fine, let's wait for Europe for a while. Mr President, I think we should settle it here today, because we are not going to wait for these arrangements to come to fruition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u190	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u191	Mr President, I do not quite understand what the...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u192	No, Mr. Sienot will sit down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u193	I wouldn't necessarily be for more highways, but if you want a highway to better climate policy, isn't today the debate on the climate budget? Then we'll have to take care of that today, won't we? Then we should not wait until we have the debate on European plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u194	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u195	I dare him a little bit, I like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u196	He'll have the floor later. Then he says what he thinks on behalf of D66. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u197	All right. Last year, the SP submitted to this budget a proposal to isolate and improve massive housing. Mr President, it was voted down, I shall say one more time in the direction of Mr Sienot. You voted it out of the vote. But now more parties come to this insight, fortunately. Except they don't make any extra money for it yet. If we now isolate and improve homes massively, we will gain massive profits. It helps achieve climate goals, it reduces the energy bill, it provides a better home and it creates a lot of jobs. The Netherlands has 1.4 million homes with fungus and moisture problems. People get sick of their own homes there. If we tackle them and isolate them, according to the Cabinet, they will create 5,000 full-time jobs. If you have an argument not to do so immediately, I would like to ask the cabinet through the President. Perhaps one more time for Mr Sienot: you voted that out last year. I'm making the proposal again now. Do you really want to wait for a fund to come from Brussels? Or are we going to take care of it now, just when we need those jobs so badly, just when there are so many people in energy poverty? CE Delft estimated that, if we set up a 30-year programme for this purpose, it would create 33 000 to 60,000 additional jobs over the entire 30-year period. Again, there's no reason to not do this, is there? The government's climate policy fails and is not fair. Households and SMEs pay the bill, while large polluters are spared. This greenest cabinet ever spent more money supporting fossil than it invested in climate. Mr. Chairman. Climate policy will only succeed if it is fair. We have put forward proposals for this again today, which we can easily afford. The cabinet now spends 200 million or more on Denmark, does a graze of 680 million from the greenhouse intended for renewable energy for so-called state-wide problems. Why not free up money for insulation and solar panels on homes right now? We propose: reserve 20% of the SDE+ pool, money for households, and make sure that people with low and average income will benefit from climate policy. The PBL warns for a reason. The cabinet isn't doing enough to get green out of the corona crisis. Is the government prepared to use the growth fund for climate policy that SMEs and households can benefit from? Mr. Chairman. We have made proposals today to create tens of thousands of green jobs, but climate policy also costs jobs and we must stand up for them. As far as the SP is concerned, coal plants must be closed as soon as possible, but not after we have put in place a fair arrangement for all employees in the chain. There's a broken coal power plant on the Maasvlakte, the Onyx. The owner seems to have bought this plant and two other German plants for 200 million. That's right, I'm asking. Now the cabinet seems willing to pay 0.25 billion for that one power station, so much more than it was bought for. That's crazy, isn't it? The union is concerned about whether there will be a proper arrangement for the employees. It seems arranged on paper, but in practice they are afraid that this is not the case at all. Can the cabinet guarantee that the employees in the power station and in the chain will be properly regulated, at least the scheme that is also available for the coal power station Hemweg? Finally, Mr President. In fact, today we are also supposed to talk about Groningen and the state that has made 400 billion dollars of gas, but still does not solve the disaster it has caused. But today we cannot talk about Groningen, because the cabinet has its budget, its plans for the coming year. The silence today about Groningen is deafening. Today is 3.002 days since the earthquake at Huizinge. 3.002 days in which the victims wait. Over and over again, the cabinet has been very hard hit by the fact that it has not solved the disaster it itself has caused, but has made it worse. Your own supervisor said it again last month: come up with a crisis approach, because this way it will take another 20 years. 3.002 days after the earthquake at Huizinge, the victims give the cabinet an average 2.5 as a report figure. More than half you give the report figure 1, but we cannot talk about it here today, because the cabinet has not yet finished its plans. Groningen has been sucked out to the marrow and "right" remains a vain word. The fact that we can't talk about how we're going to solve this disaster even three hundred and twenty-two days after Huizinge is incredibly painful. How can we ever trust in politics again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u198	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. I now give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis is, of course, primarily a health crisis, but also a huge economic crisis. After the huge blow that companies in the Netherlands got in March, we are now in the middle of the second blow. The second blow is inevitable as far as the SP is concerned. We need restrictive measures for corona and they have a very negative impact on the economy. We cannot all avoid negative consequences for companies, despite the enormous damage it causes and the misery it gives to individual entrepreneurs and employees in practice. We see in practice how people sometimes see their dream of life destroyed in a time of several months. That does force us to look critically at what we can do. Yesterday we discussed the aid package in detail and I would like to add a few points. The first concerns the temporary broadening of the TVL, the fixed charge scheme. It is a lucky choice to extend it temporarily after all the SBI codes, because I think everyone on this committee knows the long discussions about which SBI codes should and should not be covered by what rules. Any demarcation automatically leads to injustice or, in any case, apparent injustice. I think that everyone here has had examples of entrepreneurs about who to say: according to the system you don't fit in, but I can't really explain morally why you shouldn't fit in. This dishonesty is now being avoided, and that is a sensible choice. But this broadening is limited to the fourth quarter. I think it would be wise to clarify the situation as soon as possible after 1 January, not only to give these entrepreneurs certainty about possible support, but also for the longer term when it comes to lending. That is really a call: avoid a black hole after 1 January and make clear what is going on. Because we can say with certainty that the corona measures will still be in place. It is also a good thing that a sectoral approach has been adopted. What is really missing is a solution for the travel sector. That has become even clearer this week. The travel sector is a sector that now sees the entire winter season expire. It is good that we are looking at the feasibility of a credit facility around vouchers as we have seen, but it will probably need a little more here. Is there going to be a solution for this industry? And on what time? Even if the cabinet is not prepared to do anything extra, I would encourage you to report it now and not in two weeks' time, because uncertainty is the worst in that regard. Mr. Chairman. What we also see with corona is the revaluation for making things yourself, for example medical mouth caps. In general, the corona crisis has also been referred to by other speakers who have underlined the vulnerability of long chains worldwide. That's a possibility. There's a lot of talk about reshoring, but talking about it is something other than achieving something. The cabinet also mentioned this in its letter on industrial policy, which we received on Friday. I assume that we will talk more about this later, but I would like to say this. The Cabinet describes various industrial policy strategies, such as the deployment of key technologies, digitisation and sustainability, all under the flag of increasing the growth capacity of the economy. That's all wonderful, and I have no objection to that. What I completely miss is maintaining employment as a goal and argument. Employment is not the same as economic growth. That is an excellent thing that goes hand in hand with our manufacturing industry. I do not think that the employees of Apollo Vredestein, for example, will be helped with quantum computers or photonics, how good those directions are in themselves. It is also a misconception that we can retrain all employees into ICTs, no matter how many human capital agendas you unleash on the economy. I will be the last, as a higher education spokesperson, to underestimate the importance of education, but it is precisely the skilled production we have in our manufacturing industry that creates a lot of jobs, also decently paid employment, for a group that cannot easily go elsewhere. It should therefore be a strategy for the maintenance of this employment. I don't mean that we have to keep up any production company that threatens to go bankrupt. But if you know that certain companies are an important link in regional production and that certain companies are dependent on each other, so that if one falls away, then you should develop a strategy and you should act on it. I'm thinking about the Twente manufacturing industry. You could say that we should make this a priority area wide. How are we going to ensure that there are no job losses? So where is this strategy for maintaining employment as part of industrial policy? I would like to conclude with that, except that I would like to say that I am going to leave the Chamber. That is extremely discourteous to the following speakers, but now there is also an AO Manure policy going on and the chairman knows that manure always comes first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u200	Well, Mr. Fuzzler!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u201	I am impressed by the story of Mr Futselaar of the SP. When we discuss it with the SP or with other colleagues, we often talk about job retention, but then we are at the end of the route. Then the evil has often happened, whether it's at Tata Steel, at VDL or at other companies. I agree that we should invest in the manufacturing industry, whether it be reshoring or the Apollo Vredesteins we have here. We also need to distinguish between the platoon and the frontrunners. It is about ordinary, broad, SMEs. Then I'll ask the SP to join in by coming up with investment proposals. It doesn't have to be all today, it has to be in the future. How do we improve the location climate? How do we ensure that these companies can be better in terms of labour productivity? We should not just talk about taking measures at the back, but also at the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u202	I am certainly prepared to do so, but I think there is something else that precedes that. Now we're often being robbed by something happening in a company. We all do. Then we demand that the Minister talk to management in a high tone in order to avoid the worst. The minister says, "I'll do my best, but I can't do witches." At least, that's what the Minister says a lot. We're just trying to get the best out of it. What needs to be preceded, apart from the package of measures you want to take, is simply an analysis of what such a cluster looks like in the region and which places are really indispensable. That is a very difficult discussion, because it is not nice to say to a company that it is not indispensable. But it's more than the things we think are important to national security. I am also really concerned about maintaining employment. That should be an end in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u203	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. And good luck with the manure. I now give the floor to Mr Sienot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u204	Mr. Chairman. There are those who live a tremendously inspiring life, visit every continent in the world, make beautiful documentaries, and also at the end of their lives, at 93, have a chance to make the most important work of their lives. I am, of course, talking about Sir David Attenborough. In the penetrating film A life on our planet, he takes us on a journey through his life, a century in which humanity made enormous progress, but in which we also quickly warmed up the climate, deforested the Amazon, melted the ice caps and let the Australian coral reef grow. With his famous voice, he lets nature speak. Now he addresses us with an important message: we have made a mess of it, but we also have the knowledge and the ingenuity to change something about it. The film shows how important it is to meet climate goals and to avert the climate crisis. We are now witnessing an exciting election battle in the United States. Trump, Biden, Biden, Trump? Whoever it is, we all have a responsibility to avert the climate crisis. For the first time in years, this cabinet returned to its home country with serious climate policy. Thanks to this policy, CO reduction and the target of 75% renewable electricity by 2030 are now making considerable progress in the electricity sector, but we are not yet there. This shows the Climate and Energy Exploratory 2020. There's got to be a shovel on top. The Council of State is also clear: new policies need to be put in place today, not the day after tomorrow. That's why D66 wants to see more climate action. D66 thinks we can take even bigger steps if the cabinet listens to all those Dutch people with good ideas: entrepreneurs, students, students, scientists, professionals and all other people who are eager to take action. Is the Minister prepared to ask them to think along with the steering committee and to ask the climate tables for new proposals? Urgenda showed earlier this year what strength you can tap into in society, when together with no less than 800 organizations she set up 54 measures to meet the Urgendavonnis. In short, D66 asks the Minister: does he want to cover a longer climate table? Mr. Chairman. If we want the energy transition to succeed, we must not only make people feel like it, but also, if they want to, be able to participate. Here we risk running a great opportunity for social tenants and others who do want to benefit from solar energy, but do not have a suitable roof. For these people, the postcode rose subsidy really is a wonderful outcome. Several speakers have already mentioned this. We can help thousands of households reduce the energy bill. There is also more and more enthusiasm for the postcode rose. Municipalities, housing corporations, private homeowners, many others are in the starting blocks. D66 already sees that the available budget of EUR 37 million is far too low. That is why I have tabled an amendment, together with my colleague Agnes Mulder. I understand there's a wide interest in that. GroenLinks is also participating now, as is the Christian Union. I have never received so much support in a debate. We want to increase the budget to 100 million, so that we can make thousands of households benefit from clean, cheap electricity near them in the coming years. I would like to hear a response from the Minister to this amendment. To get everyone involved, D66 also wants to make clean choices cheap and easy for everyone. We want to make maximum use of available subsidies to help really clean techniques across the market threshold, including in the field of heat. We are already lagging behind in this respect. That is why we want to see a rapid end of the year and a speedy phasing-out of subsidies on woody biomass. We really need to go through with that now. We can use this money much better for insulation, all-electric, the development of heat networks with aquathermia, data heat or solar heat. There are a lot of possibilities, but you have to start now. The question to the Minister is therefore: when will the opinion of the PBL come? And what exactly did the Minister give you on that phasing-out path? D66 also notes that there is a lot of money left in the SDR++-pot. For example, one in six solar projects is not going to happen. That money comes back in the SDE++ pot. But that money sometimes also threatens to go back to the general funds. We really want to avoid that. GroenLinks spokesperson also spoke about this. With this money, we want to make the clean and logical choice, so let us make the most of it. The first question is therefore: how will the Minister ensure that no longer one in six projects will continue, but that they will continue? And how is the Minister going to ensure that SDE surpluses remain available for the energy transition and that, as happened this year, 680 million is not returned to general resources? Mr. Chairman. Climate and Energy exploration shows that we still have huge steps to take in the industrial and transport sectors. These sectors can learn from the electricity sector, where sustainability is now going fast, also in view of the spectacular fall in prices in that sector due to sunshine and wind. That also makes the call for nuclear power a little striking. D66 wants to discuss the role of nuclear power in addition to sun and wind. I was pleased to hear the Minister's reply yesterday, who also said that nuclear energy is an addition to the sun and wind. But then we must discuss it on the basis of scientifically sound reports and not on the basis of the rattling ENCO report which the Minister recently sent to the Chamber and which has also been filed by experts. This minister is a really smart man. He worked at McKinsey. I am sure that this report would not have come through quality control if the Minister had still worked there. What matters to us most is that D66 does not want to distract the debate on nuclear energy from what really needs to be done to achieve the 2030 targets. This means that we need to prepare regional climate plans vigorously. We must ensure that people are properly involved, for example through civil panels, so that we can turn the resistance, which we, of course, also perceive, into a kind of positive feeling about clean electricity. There are also plenty of initiators who are eager to do so. There are a lot of companies that are eager to do so. In short, can the Minister say that this cheapest and fastest way to reach the 2030 climate targets is supported by him and that he is also going to help the RES to achieve it as well as possible, so that people can keep up with it? Then it is important that we develop the key technology, which we are reminded of every time by experts, every time we visit the Chamber. I am also reminded of this in every work visit. In any case, it is a technique that we need to tackle the major climate challenges. I'm talking about green hydrogen, of course. We need them in order to produce green steel in industry, to allow aircraft to fly cheaper and cleaner and to allow ships to sail cleaner. In addition, green hydrogen can play an important role in supplying electricity, if sun and wind do not deliver. The EU is therefore firmly committed to green hydrogen, with the Green Deal. D66 therefore has the following questions to the Minister. Can he ensure that the green hydrogen import chain is now being developed, so that the port of Rotterdam will be able to benefit from it? What budgets is the Minister going to tap into to bring about innovation in green hydrogen, to make green hydrogen cheap and easy in the future? In the North, they are eager to turn this into the new natural gas. There are plenty of opportunities to fund it: the DEI, the scheme for innovations in the field of renewable energy, the Just Transition Fund and the Recovery and Resilience Facility. Has the Minister already submitted a request to the EU for this last fund? There seems to be some haste; otherwise others will run away with the fish. Finally, on this point. D66 wants to accelerate the development of hydrogen, but wants this development to contribute to meeting climate targets and not to increase CO emissions. This risk threatens if we do not quickly develop more clean generation capacity. Is the Minister therefore prepared to consider how to speed up the granting of licences for more wind at sea? Mr. Chairman. D66 wants everyone to benefit from clean power. This requires more power, so that no solar panel is unemployed on the roof and the electric car can load more and more places. I see an opportunity to use the Growth Fund to build the clean energy system of the future. My colleague Kees Verhoeven will discuss the Growth Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u205	I hear a passionate argument for green hydrogen. You will receive all the support for green hydrogen from the CDA fraction. But we still have one of those intermediate stages. In that intermediate phase, you also need investments. GroenLinks indicated with realism that even in that intermediate phase, there might also need to be some investment in fossil, before you can make that transition, to that hydrogen, in particular, within the Growth Fund. How does D66 feel about that? I ask that because otherwise I almost have to table a motion to indicate as a Chamber that we want that hydrogen to be explicitly included in the Growth Fund. So I'm not sure about that. Maybe my colleague from D66 can pull me over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u206	I'm not asking the Minister that question for nothing. It is an interesting question from Mrs Mulder. What is important, of course, is that this natural gas infrastructure can seamlessly become a hydrogen gas infrastructure. Of course, something must be done for that; we must use it. What matters is that we are going to transform the whole natural gas chain into a hydrogen chain, so that we are no longer a natural gas country, but a clean gas country. We can do that. So if you mean by your question whether we want to free up money for that and whether we want to use the various sources of funding, such as the Growth Fund, then of course we say yes. But I would also say quite honestly that prescribing obviously ignores what the Growth Fund is meant for, namely a committee that chooses the best method. It chooses the best way to achieve growth. To be honest, I have confidence that green hydrogen is going to come out of there. Because I'm assuming that green hydrogen is not driven for nothing in all those often digital places, where you and I are today, by "invest in it."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u207	Of course, I am always happy when Mr Sienot mentions my beloved port of Rotterdam. And I'm super happy when he says, "I'd be happy to talk about nuclear energy if there's another report. Well, then we'll order that, and we'll look at the IPCC report, for example. And then hope that doesn't cause too much noise in the RES's next year. However, I would like to ask my question about something else, because that phrase on nuclear energy started with industry. The industry has a task for the coming years, if they have to pay CO-tax and in the meantime, sometimes with their hands in their hair because of their sustainability. Now I read in the D66 election programme that D66, Mr Sienot, wants to increase that levy, wants to introduce a generic tax while at the same time preventing job losses and investment abroad. That's very topical right now. So I am very curious to see how Mr Sienot intends to prevent that. Now that the law is being dealt with, what can he say concretely to these companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u208	What I would like to say in concrete terms is this. You're gonna have to tell the whole story. The D66 election programme clearly states that it is also about the collection of money from pollution, the polluter is about paying more and reducing the burden on labour. In this sense, it is not just a burden increase, but a search for the balance in making work cheaper and making pollution more expensive. Exactly the direction we want to go. The second thing that's very important is that you're going to help those companies. That's what we say every time we invest in greening. So we very much want the SDE+ funds to be used, even for the purposes of this report. You mention Rotterdam, but with a project like Porthos we have to hurry, instead of saying here every time that we have to do something with it and then nothing happens. So my answer to that is short and good: keep your burdens on employers as low as possible by lowering labour costs. I'm not as good at that as my colleague Steven van Weyenberg... and increasing pollution costs, and at the same time make sure that you help the companies here focus on investing in greening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u209	That in itself is an argument you can make. But the reduction in the burden on labour applies to more companies, not just those with hands in their hair because they have to make such an investment. That will give us a little puzzle, because these companies simply stand for big investments in the years to come. Does Mr Sienot share the opinion that I have just expressed, namely that you should look at new ways in the SDE++, that you should look at financial support for process efficiency, and that you should perhaps have an answer for those companies that do not have a real option by 2030? How do you look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u210	I think that is a very good question, because now I can clarify it. That's exactly what we need to do. In the end, Mr Harbers and I are not very different about the idea that you should let these companies green up here. I don't think you can escape the fact that some places require customization, because you have to have the alternatives available. If they're not available, you need to make sure they're available. At that stage in between, you have to help companies. I would like to add one more thing, Madam President: there are a lot of companies that can already take many steps. There I fully agree with GroenLinks: they have still not taken those steps. The energy efficiency saving rate is going down, so they're saving less energy than they did. We want that pace to go up and that, where there are legal obligations, they are also maintained. It's gotta go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u211	I would like to ask another question, because Mr Wiersma will allow me to do so. There are also companies that say: then we need to have a look at something like an emergency valve. If it is not their fault, if the infrastructure is not there, if they want hydrogen but the backbone is 100 kilometres away, then we must also have the debate on it. That is not very flexible, so to speak, by the CO-taxing industry Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u212	Short, Madam President. I think I just said that where customization is needed, you have to apply customization. However, I would like to say directly: where all kinds of exemptions are granted which are questionable, where companies still do not comply with the legal obligations, you must also maintain them. It's two-and-a-half. That is how I would like to deal with it and I would like to have the talks with those companies and Mr Harbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u213	Thank you. Then I'll give you the floor... Oh, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u214	I have one final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u215	That's all right, go ahead. I actually wanted to say that we are going to take a short break after Mr Verhoeven. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u216	I was just talking about the Growth Fund. My question to the Minister was: what space will there be in the Growth Fund for the energy system? How is that designed? I understand the CDA's concerns incredibly well. So I'd like to put that there. Finally, Madam President, concluding. We can put the fossil age that David Attenborough experienced behind us and start our own era with a clean, modern and fair economy. Let us therefore take all the climate opportunities and now turn to truly clean solutions. That means climate action today, not the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u217	That's a nice closure, though. It's gotta be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u218	I've got half a minute left.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u219	After such an historic conclusion, I thought: then, of course, we must see what we can do together. Mr Sienot also has the question of what we are going to do for those 650,000 people who are in energy poverty. I have presented two plans, which, at the same time as achieving climate goals, create jobs and ensure that energy poverty stops. Is Mr Sienot prepared to do so now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u220	I agree with Mrs Beckerman that we need to tackle energy poverty, but I do not share the fact that the method she has chosen is the best. If I am honest, I can see that this cabinet is investing billions in a housing fund over the next few years, precisely in order, as far as I am concerned, to give priority to helping the families and households that are now in trouble and are indeed lying on the couch with a blanket. That's what we have to do. That is why I am also proposing with Mrs Mulder, and Mrs Beckerman, with Mr Van der Lee and Mrs Carla Dik-Faber, to ensure that more households can benefit from clean electricity, even if they do not have a suitable roof, and therefore have a lower energy bill. We are putting forward proposals for this. There's a lot going on. Finally, the issue of whether booking 20% of the SDE++ is the best way to do this. Actually, I don't think so. Mrs Beckerman also agrees with me that we should let the companies, which I had just had a discussion about with Mr Harbers, green up. We need a budget for that. This should be as cost-effective as possible. Mrs Beckerman agrees with me too, at least I always understand that we must help farmers to green up. We need a budget for this and we need to encourage it. It also requires a budget to choose smart solutions in the transport sector to ensure that people drive clean. In short, it is important that we drive this whole sustainability in the most cost-effective way throughout the economy. And that is where the SP proposal falls short, because in the built environment there is still a very expensive way to reduce CO emissions. So first we have to make it cheaper, we have to make agreements with industry, we have to let the renovation wave do its job, and then we have to do our job, and then I will finish my speech, Madam President-in-Office, so that we can help out the following from that lower cost, so that we can help more people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u221	Period. Your last question, Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u222	This is my last question, Mr President, so I hope for a better answer. It started out so nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u223	Actually, I thought it was a good answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u224	Mr Sienot said: we agree, we agree. And then he says: yes, no, but wait a minute, wait a minute; now doing things in the built environment, so now that those people are helping in energy poverty, it's expensive, so we're putting that on the long track. Mr Sienot is right to say that a great deal has to be done. But the cabinet he supports, the so-called greenest cabinet, spends more money every year, 4.5 billion, to support fossil than climate. How can he say: I agree with you, but we are going to wait a few more years until it gets cheaper?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u225	We agree that you should let everyone come along, but we do not agree that your proposal is the best one. Then I will all mention ways of saying that I will not repeat them, because then the President gets angry...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u226	It's not that bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u227	... which are now being set in motion to help those households. If that's not enough, we need to look at it right away. I'm the first in that, too. But to reserve 20% of a budget at the moment for another purpose, which is a general budget to reduce CO as cost-effectively as possible in general, I do not think it is wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u228	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Verhoeven and then we will take a short break. Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u229	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u230	It's good to see you again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u231	That's very mutual, Mr. Chairman. I had a nice opening prepared. You'll cross it again, but I'll make the most of it. The SP goes for the manure, GroenLinks appears in 3D and the PVV talked about De T. And then I thought, "I'm getting old, Mr. Chairman."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u232	That's not so bad!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u233	But that can also be true, because this is the tenth time I have done the Economic Affairs budget, and also the last time. I thought it would be good to look back a little bit on the policies of recent years and then look a little ahead and then share a few points with the cabinet and colleagues. I also notice, of course, that there is unrest around us. We had the support package debate yesterday and we are about to have the corona debate. The American presidential election is going all over the place. Whichever way you look at it, it's far from certain. But we still have a very important budget to deal with today, namely the EZK budget. The EZK budget is a lot, but it is also the budget that is the long-term foundation for our innovation policy. Innovation policy is very important for the future of the Netherlands and for growth, depending on how you look at growth, and is also the basis for prosperity and its distribution. I have experienced three Cabinets-Rutte, and all three have actually invested too little in research. It often appeared that the budgets for research were promised, but were soft. There was a lot of generic policy, there were many tax reductions afterwards and there was a very strong emphasis on old-fashioned, vertical sectors and industries. I've argued it for years and I thought: I'm going to do it one more time now, hoping that we can turn this around a little bit. The top sectors were there from 2011; nine sectors. Then you saw that making choices and sharpness were difficult. We have worked for a long time with the Innovation Box, a billion-dollar tax deduction, which made many large companies especially happy. And the transformation of these sectors into regions and societal challenges has been used during this cabinet, but it is still very slow. So we see as D66 the need for three trends. First of all, there should be a tough standard for investing in research, a real science standard, a bit similar to the NATO standard, which means that we have some harder and firmer budgets for scientific research and R&D investment. Secondly, we will really have to put start-ups and scale-ups and innovative SMEs at the heart of innovation policy. It is necessary; the real innovation comes from these companies. Big companies are important. I'm not gonna change that, but the new companies that are working on new ideas have to be dealt with much better. And that's what we need to do through ecosystems. We need to put societal challenges at the heart of the matter, and we need to look for cooperation and connection in the region, in order to make much better use of the potential of the Netherlands. Those are actually three things that I think we should really do. I hope that the Minister and the Secretary of State will respond to this general introduction. And I have another supplementary question, because a few days ago a message came out that the cabinet and Invest-NL are going to invest 0.5 billion together in these growth companies. That sounds good, but does this money really contribute to the problem I outlined that we need to stimulate those start-ups and scale-ups much more? Mr. Chairman. It's happening in the region. That's kind of the CDA story, but I want to underline this as D66: we need to think about ecosystems. We have thought in vertical sectors, while we have to think in horizontal regions. That's where it comes in. Worldwide, countries do well, depending on their ecosystems. Shanghai and Silicon Valley are the best known examples, but also spread across Europe there are smaller regions that are doing well and where a country can move on. The Netherlands has that potential, too. We have Brainport Eindhoven. We have Amsterdam, which is incredibly good at artificial intelligence. We have Foodvalley Wageningen. We have Utrecht, Leiden and Delft, where a lot is happening in the field of tech, but also in the field of medical development and health. As far as I am concerned, we should be much more committed to this. One of the things the Netherlands is not good at is a term that I thought Mr Wiersma used as well: valorisation. That's a bit of an abstract term, but by "valorisation" I mean: from knowledge, research and science, that the Netherlands is doing really well, to success. It's making money from solutions that we can sell all over the world to solve societal challenges. We don't do that well enough, that "turn to," that "translation into," that "deserve with." As the Netherlands, we must do this better. How is the cabinet going to try to take away this bottleneck? Is there gonna be room for that? Is the Growth Fund going to be used for this? The Growth Fund is, of course, very much focused on infrastructure, universities and technologies, but we are also going to look at this valorisation within that Growth Fund, I would like to ask. Mr. Chairman. My colleague, Mr Sienot, has already mentioned the 'fossil era'. I'd like to talk about the digital age. I have a number of issues that I would like to raise. First of all, the importance of key technologies. Technology is increasingly determining the world's relations. China shows that with an assertive technology strategy it is gaining more and more power. How are we going to pay much more attention to these key technologies in the Growth Fund? I am talking about artificial intelligence, photonics, nanotechnology, biotech; all such key technologies determine the strength and competitiveness of the Netherlands. How are we gonna score better than we do now? I'd like a response from the cabinet. Then a few small points. First of all, the sea cables. We often talk about the internet node Netherlands, but you are only a node when the roads arrive at you. In this case, the roads are the sea cables. It seems that the Netherlands is letting go of the battle for these sea cables. How does the cabinet see that? The same applies to the role of the Netherlands and Dutch companies in the GAIA-X programme, a European cloud as an alternative to Amazon's US data centres, Microsoft and other companies. It seems that France is pulling that towards itself and that they are setting the standards, while the Netherlands has a very great potential. What is Economic Affairs doing in this respect? Another point is the position of SIDN, the foundation that publishes the.nl domain. There are stories in which the registrars, the companies that publish the domains to users of websites, get unfair competition from that foundation, which manages its own budget. Would it not be necessary to turn this into an independent administrative body, because there are a great deal of unfair competition? I agree with Mr Van der Lee's question on the technicalities. I've said a lot of things about that. The big tech companies are incredibly powerful and can afford a huge amount, which has many disadvantages. Commissioner Vestager recently said that cutting up should be possible. The Secretary of State has also sometimes thought in this direction. But we do not do much in Europe in this area. Could the Secretary of State say anything about that? And what is the role of the Netherlands to provide the power of those techrists with counterpower and to cut them up where necessary, or at least to limit mergers or acquisitions they make? Let's talk about start-ups. It seems a bit that these are the trendy fashionable companies, where people sometimes wonder what that gets. Unilever is often referred to as an important employer, where about 2,500 people work. But when you add companies like Adyen, Picnic, GitLab and Catawiki together, for example, you talk about the double or the triple of the number of jobs at Unilever. So these are companies that also create jobs. Those companies have very different interests, for example attracting top talent from abroad or being able to pay their staff in shares. They also sometimes have problems with intellectual property. Often they are university spin-offs, and then there is the issue of intellectual property, which is a barrier to growth. So how can we ensure, for example, that we give shares/options to their employees in relation to those internationally competitive companies of the future? Is it not necessary to have a model agreement which, for example, facilitates the regulation of intellectual property for that category of companies? Finally. We should not just talk about the future and about new companies, we should also look at the companies we have now. I think Mr Wiersma said it well. But also the contributions of the PVV and the SP were very focused on the existing companies, the inner cities, the catering entrepreneurs, the retail sector: companies that are now experiencing extra difficulties due to corona and who have already been struggling due to increasing digitalisation and the fact that buying is becoming more and more frequent without the need for a physical presence. Those companies are incredibly heavy and the cabinet is working hard. I also think that compliments to the cabinet and the officials who work very hard in the ministries are very appropriate. All these support packages must be put together and hammered together, which then have to be adapted again, which is a great deal of work. In particular, the catering industry is suffering heavily. They are not only struggling because they have no sales, but also because they have to pay a lot of rent. So my question would be: can't we do something for that problem? I know that the cabinet has spoken to landlords, but in some cases these landlords keep asking for the full pound, while it is clear that those companies cannot afford the rent at all. Could a form of turnover rent be a solution to this? I ask the Secretary of State about the retail task force, on which the VVD and D66 tabled a motion last year and which was adopted by an overwhelming majority. As for my final question, I agree with Mr Graus, who has since left the Chamber, which, of course, does not make the fun any less. He asked a question about the sustainability of VDL Nedcar in Limburg with the aim of maintaining thousands of direct and indirect jobs there. Is the Minister prepared to play a role in this as well, following the investments made by Nedcar himself and the province of Limburg? Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u234	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. I think you've been very quiet lately. I'm not used to that from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u235	Yeah, it's a lot of progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u236	Yeah, I really think it's a relief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-3.u237	I shall suspend the sitting until 2.10 p.m. Then we'll move on.
