ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u1	The next item is the debate on the European Summit on 10 and 11 December 2020. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and, of course, the Members of Parliament. Mr Omtzigt was not present, but we have just agreed that four questions may be put to the House in the first term; they must be brief and concise. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u2	Thank you, Madam President. We are discussing today the commitment to the forthcoming European Summit, a very important summit. The agenda includes issues that are on the verge of breakthrough or are on the brink of collapse, such as the rule of law mechanism, the Brexit, the EU-US relationship and the climate. I understand that the wish is not to allow these discussions to last indefinitely, so I shall confine myself to two subjects, which is a pity, especially for those who have done the preparatory work. Let me start with the rule of law mechanism. For years, governments in Poland and Hungary have been undermining the rule of law and democracy in their countries. This is a major problem for the people there, but also for the EU as a whole, because it undermines the EU as a community of values and it also undermines cooperation in a very concrete way, such as judicial cooperation. Next Thursday we will speak in this house with Derek Mazur, with Michal Wawrykiewicz and with Aleksandra Gliszczyńska-Grabias. Those are the people on whose side we are. Resistance to human rights violations in countries such as Hungary and Poland is not directed against those countries, but rather is a support for those who fight there for a better future and who send us emails and other messages to ask us to keep our backs straight. I would therefore like to thank the Prime Minister for his determination to maintain the lower limit of the compromise achieved by the European Parliament. I think that's necessary. It's very good that he's standing in front of that. It does give rise to an on-Brussels situation. Conflicts are of course not unknown in the European Union, but a solution has always been found. My own experience is that negotiations often only start in the afternoon, because it is only at dawn that the willingness to take up and give up will arise. But there can't be a bit of either one here, so how does it work now? If I understand correctly, Poland and Hungary have until tonight to withdraw their veto, otherwise opportunities will be explored to move forward without them. What is the state of play, both as regards the position of these countries and as regards a possible compromise by the German Presidency? I read that it is not up to the Netherlands to put options on the table or to anticipate the substance of any proposals made by President Merkel or the European Commission, but perhaps the Prime Minister can share with us what the precise options might be from his experience, his years of experience. What can we think about? What are the goat paths or inserts that do not undermine the credibility of the European Union, which means that we are not below the lower limit that this Chamber really sees as a hard lower limit? Mr. Chairman. The cost of the work is high, both for European values and financial, because without a deal, the Multiannual Financial Framework, the MFF, will not enter into force and we will fall back on an emergency budget. The Recovery Fund, as foreseen, in which the European Commission lends money, will not come off the ground either. Now we all know that the Treaty offers opportunities in this area for enhanced cooperation with the EU Member States, less the obstacles. Does the Prime Minister actually see bread in this option if a joint recovery fund is not one of the possibilities? Does he agree with me that this enhanced cooperation would be preferable to an intergovernmental treaty? Because the latter would put the European Parliament out of play and the control of resources would be worse. Can the first steps be taken at the forthcoming European summit? Can the Prime Minister also say whether he is already implementing or already implementing the motion adopted by the Chamber last week, which calls for the necessary preparations, after examination, to be made, preferably with like-minded Member States, to bring Poland before the EU Court for failure to comply with his obligations? Finally, on this point. It is really time to give more support to the progressive forces in the EU, including financially. Think of Telex.hu, one of the few independent newspapers in Hungary now or of the Polish Ombudsman whose budget is being cut off by the Polish government. Is the Cabinet prepared to investigate how this support can be strengthened? Madam President. Then half a minute before the climate. This Saturday is five years after Paris. It is important for the EU to commit itself not only to the long-term objectives of the 2050 targets, but also to the 2030 target. Then you can see that the European Commission says: well, minus 55. But it speaks of a "net reduction" Yes, with that you remove about 3% or 4% of the target. My question to the Prime Minister is: is the Netherlands still firmly committed to the minus 55 target? And really very important: will the Prime Minister ensure that decisions on climate agreements are not postponed, but that the European Union will really drop its climate conclusions next week? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u3	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I now give the floor to Mr Emiel van Dijk on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Over the last few weeks, we have heard many parliamentarians excited about the rule of law in Poland and Hungary. There is even a round table with specialists planned here this week. This while here in the Netherlands, much closer to home, my own party leader has been trying to silence for years, with the help of the officials of Ivo Opstelten, who interfered with the prosecution and had active contact with the Public Prosecutor's Office to get Geert Wilders convicted. It was therefore simply under the responsibility of this Prime Minister's party that the leader of the opposition in the Netherlands was persecuted for asking a political question. And then we also have the situation with Julio Poch, the supplementing affair and, of course, the shredder of thousands of court rulings of tried asylum seekers with a legal obligation to leave. Not exactly a good example of how to deal with your rule of law. I would, if I were the Prime Minister, be very careful of what I say when he comes to Brussels to question the rule of law of Poland and Hungary. Because before you know it, the Prime Minister himself will be subject to investigation and will soon lose his right to vote in the Council, because of this undermining and contempt for our rule of law. Not that denying the right to vote would help to stop EU dictatorships. Indeed, our Prime Minister is always indifferent to the annual transfer of tens of Dutch billions to Eastern and Southern Europe. Mr. Chairman. Then the Brexit. It's a festive moment. It's almost time. The British almost took back their freedom and left that terrible EU. All hell and damnation, preached by among others the Prime Minister, have remained completely absent. The British get the corona vaccine first. They've already inoculated their first citizens today. They're closing their borders for lucky seekers. They do not have to pay EUR 100 billion to the European Union budget and emergency funds. So it's not that bad with the British. By the way, the British are still getting Unilever. And we must not forget that Unilever did not choose to move from the Netherlands to Great Britain despite the Brexit. Despite Prime Minister Rutte's promises. So, Chairman, who else is kidding this cabinet? All that fearmongering and ghost stories about the grass on the quays, it turns out it was all bullshit. Having said that, this cabinet has been chasing the EU for far too long, rather than negotiating with the British in the interests of the Netherlands. And that is what the PVV finds irresponsible and simply said simply stupid. And then the EU ministers' decision to censor the word 'Islamic' from the final declaration on terror. The EU, which has the mouths of counter-terrorism but meanwhile lets half of the jihadist world come here with no cans or blush, and then refuses to make the link between Islam and terror, which we should preferably keep as far away from fighting terror as possible. Of course, we simply have to ensure the safety of our citizens and close our own borders. It's the only way to keep terrorists out. The Prime Minister, if it is up to the PVV, should therefore stay far away from EU counter-terrorism plans. Finally, the PVV also wants to expose the EU's hypocrisy with regard to Turkey. Turkey, the country that has been occupying Cyprus for decades, and the EU that has been closing its eyes to this for decades. Turkey which is fooling national waters of, for example, Greece, and the EU which simply refuses to break off the accession negotiations with Turkey. It's the country that throws journalists and dissidents in jail and charges my party leader. On the other hand, there is the EU, which rewards the Turks with billions of accession aid. This summit would therefore be the perfect time to reject, for example, the declaration against Geert Wilders, an elected representative of the people. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore to do this with his European colleagues at this summit. Dismiss this Turkish declaration harassment. Turkey is also the country that was so smart to extort Prime Minister Rutte and managed to pull 6 billion for a Turkey deal. And what does the EU do? He is still being blackmailed by Erdogan, otherwise Turkey will send even more illegal migrants this way. And then the VVD dares to say with dry eyes that the Turkey deal has worked. What a joke. The figures speak for themselves and the facts do not lie. Under ten years of Prime Minister Rutte, 750,000 non-Western immigrants have been allowed in. Under the VVD regime, an average of 30,000 asylum seekers still enter each year. As a icing on the cake of the VVD-open borders policy, many thousands of illegal criminal aliens are free in the Netherlands, without being arrested, detained and deported. Mr President, in conclusion. The Turkey deal has not worked or is not going to work. It is clear that Turkey must not go billions, but it must be subject to strong sanctions. That's what you're gonna have to break off the negotiations with. You should throw it out of NATO. But the Heads of Government are afraid to do so. Why not? Because they are all okay with what Erdogan is doing at the external border of the Schengen area. The more misery that man causes there, whether it's wars or masses of migrants he's sending on buses to the border, it's all good for the EU. They are always there as the chickens to advocate a European approach. Never washed a good crisis. Erdogans Turkey is the gift that keeps on giving. So we must leave the sinking ship of the European Union as soon as possible and start to believe in our own strength, in the strength of our own entrepreneurs, of our own companies and of our own people. We must stop letting ourselves be talked into the pit by people like Mark Rutte and Angela Merkel, who are trying to convince us that we cannot do anything and want to destroy our confidence as a nation, just to maintain and strengthen their own position of power in the European Union. Power politics at the expense of the freedom of their own people. I can't think of a stronger argument for a nexit, a stronger argument for our freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u5	Thank you. Mr Jetten has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u6	Mr Van Dijk just mentioned that Europe should not be blackmailed by Turkey. Then I agree with him, but my question to him is why it is okay to let us blackmail Poland and Hungary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u7	I didn't say that. I don't think there's any blackmail. You've agreed rules in that terrible Treaty of Lisbon. This includes vetoes, which, thank goodness, we still have, even though they are far too little used by this government. You'll have to live with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u8	Poland and Hungary are now blackmailing the European Union in the negotiations on the multiannual budget, which contains billions of money, including for Dutch entrepreneurs. They are blackmailing us because they do not want to join the democratic rule of law as we agreed in the Netherlands and in the European Union. It was a while ago the leader of the PVV, Wilders, who said here in Question Time or in a debate with Prime Minister Rutte: if only we had Prime Minister Orbán in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u9	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u10	Sure, says Mr Van Dijk. My question to him is: where did the PVV's love for Orbán come from? Is it the shared hatred of Muslims? Is it the shared hatred of Jews? Is it the anti-gay zones established in Hungary and Poland? Are those the reasons why the PVV is such a fan of those two authoritarian regimes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u11	Let me begin by correcting some of Mr Jetten's fairy tales of D66. The Netherlands will contribute 100 billion to the corona emergency fund. There's not a billion going to Dutch companies. So let us make that clear: we are going to pay, we are not going to receive anything. Germany will receive, Greece will receive, Portugal will receive. All these countries are going to receive and we can pay for it. Having said that: that we are very much in favour of a character, a person like Orbán rather than Prime Minister Rutte is because that man keeps his back, because that man stands up for his own people, because that man chooses his national interests instead of squandering national interests to be loved in Europe. That man does not do so, so I think that is certainly an admirable institution compared to Mr Rutte, who signs all over the cross when money has to be thrown over the beam again. And speaking of antigay zones, have you ever been to Amsterdam? Perhaps you should look closer to home if you want to fight anti-gay ideas. Perhaps you should try to put the problems in order here in the Netherlands instead of looking at what is not going well in Poland and Hungary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u12	The European Recovery Fund is indeed in the interest of Dutch entrepreneurs, because we, as a trading country, make money in that European economy. But I note that Mr Van Dijk, like Mr Wilders, in debates on Orbán, in debates on Poland, simply does not recognise that there is Islamophobia, xenophobia, anti-Semitism, the silence of opposition and media, the firing of judges and the setting up of anti-gay zones. He does not want to speak out against it. The long arm of Orbán is therefore deep in the PVV-group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u13	I'm sorry, but the D66 colleague must be ashamed of himself, because it's incredible how much hypocrisy drowns from this. I did not hear Mr Jetten when it was the officials of Ivo Opstelden of the VVD who interfered in the persecution of my party leader Geert Wilders. Perhaps he should have been concerned about this rather than about what is going on in Poland and Hungary. We have bigger problems closer to home with our rule of law than you think and than you are now pretending. I find it really incredible that Mr Jetten is so concerned about what is happening in Poland and Hungary and turns a blind eye, close his eyes, for what is happening under his own nose in terms of corruption and the rule of law and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u14	I am not usually present in these debates, so I have not yet fully understood what the PVV's position is. The answer to all of Mr Jetten's questions is: yes, but in the Netherlands it is not easy either. Perhaps the colleague could provide some clarification. What does he think of these gay zones in Poland? What does he think of Orbán's proposals to increase the birth rate for women by compensating them financially? What do you think of these two concrete proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u15	I don't think my personal opinion matters very much. I think that we in the Dutch parliament will be able to talk about the situation in Poland and Hungary, Mr Rutte, but if it is up to the PVV there will be no euro in tax money to Hungary or Poland anyway. So whether they block it or not, it's no big deal for us. As a Dutch parliament, we are responsible for what is happening in the Netherlands. Why are we concerned about the situation in Poland and Hungary? There shouldn't be a penny of taxpayers' money there. We've talked about that before. We need to focus on the problems that Dutch citizens are concerned about, such as the 100 billion that will soon be spent, while here the catering industry is being destroyed and people do not know if they are going to have a job. We should be concerned about this rather than trying to preserve all the EU's problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u16	But what I hear is that the colleague is ashamed. He's ashamed of the fact that he says on the one hand that he admires leaders who spread gay hatred and misogyny. Those are the leaders who are also admired by the leader of the PVV. When it comes to specific questions, do you also admire their policies? There will be no answer in any way, because you are simply ashamed. At least that's hopeful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u17	I think it's a great observation, but it's not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u18	I hope that will be clarified now. The PVV did say that we should take an example from Mr Orbán. The PVV has said that we prefer a prime minister like Mr Orbán. Mr Orbán has created political courts, courts that supervise the judges to control them politically. The PVV supports a prime minister in Hungary, setting him as an example to the Netherlands, who does this and who also announces homo-free zones in his country. Does the PVV really set an example to the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u19	This is a question of the familiar road. My party leader has been very clear about this. Orbán is a great Prime Minister for his country and we should have someone who works for his own people like Orbán. What they do there with gay rights and such is not our line. We would never do that here in the Netherlands. You may try to frame that, but you will never hear Prime Minister Wilders plead for homo-free zones. You can take that out of your head.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u20	But I hear the PVV arguing that we have a prime minister like Mr Orbán. And Mr Orbán does that sort of thing: political courts, homo-free zones, the muzzling of the media. Is that what the PVV wants? I hear the PVV now saying, no, we don't want that. What do you want? You want a Mr Orbán to do that. You want that. Otherwise, you must distance yourself from Mr Orbán. That's what I want to hear from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u21	We are not going to distance ourselves from Mr Orbán at all. That's total bullshit. Why would we do that? It is simply appalling to see such high-profile texts coming out of the VVD's mouth on the protection of the rule of law and homo-free zones. I just told Mr Jetten that we have homo-free zones in Amsterdam where people can't walk hand in hand because they're then beaten up by annoying Moroccans. You're not doing anything about it. For five years, my party leader has been prosecuted by officials from the Ministry of Justice and Security, led by a VVD. And here you come to me on the rule of law in Poland and Hungary. Get out of here. Really, what is this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u22	I will only note that the PVV has not distanced itself from the Prime Minister's policy which sets an example here. I am talking about the Prime Minister in Hungary, who creates political courts and homo-free zones and muzzles the press. There's no getting away from that. I'm giving the PVV the last chance now. I'm gonna sit down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u23	You can see until you weigh one o'clock, but you won't get another answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u24	I was wondering if the Party for Freedom is also for free media.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u25	Better than state-controlled media like the NIS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u26	Exactly. "Yes" is the answer. How do you feel about the fact that, in the regimes that are being attacked here, I think it is always a little inadequate to mention only Poland and Hungary and to forget, for example, Malta, Bulgaria or the Czech Republic, wherever these trends are going, that the media are being bought up more and more? As a result, independent journalism is no longer able to do its job and no longer raise any abuses that could, for example, have to do with your party leader's trial. Isn't it strange that you say on the one hand 'look at the Netherlands; there's plenty to do', but on the other hand you look completely away from Hungary and Orbán, who do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u27	We are not looking away from that, but we have no responsibility whatsoever. We are Dutch representatives of the people. We are here in the House of Representatives in The Hague. We are not in Budapest, we are not in Hungary, we are not in Poland and we are not in Malta. We have nothing to do with what those people in those countries are doing. Of course, the free press is a great right. I wish we had a little more unbiased press in the Netherlands. That'd be great. That'd be great.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u28	So a lot of Hungarians also think it would be nice if there were unbiased press. I'll give them that. You say: we are only about the Netherlands. No, we are having a debate on the European Union here, so we are dealing with this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u29	That's what we want to get out of.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u30	More than you want, but that's what we're dealing with. The funny thing is that the PVV is lifting a regime on the shield that has total disregard for opposition, what you are and whatever the SP is. We know how important it is to counter a government that does not open up and permeates with false corona policy. We know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u31	And those motions refuse to carry out. We can go on like this for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u32	Exactly, exactly, no problem at all. But we do need that kind of civil society, don't we? I am talking about the freedom that we are given to speak in Parliament and in the media. Then why are you defending a regime that not only silences the media and civil society, but even silences parliamentarians? I really don't understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u33	Mrs. Je... sorry, I mean, Mrs. Leijten. I almost said, "Mrs. Jetten." Mrs Leijten has already given her own answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u34	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u35	We have in the Netherlands... Would you like to conclude, Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u36	No, no, finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u37	We already have a lot to worry about in the Netherlands. Think of the freedom of parliamentarians, being persecuted for your political opinion and you name it. So why on earth should we concern ourselves with what is happening in Hungary? That's really not our priority. That is separate from the fact that my party leader of Orbán says: that is a great Prime Minister; he would be a better Prime Minister than our Prime Minister. That doesn't change anything. It would be. I am referring to someone who stands up for his own country, closes the borders and says: until here and no further; no one comes in and we throw out everyone who is criminal and causes nuisance. And what do we do? We give them bed, bath and bread. We'll give them free health care. We're not doing anything for the Dutch. We could use a prime minister who does. That's where I think you should start looking for your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u38	Then I hope that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u39	Mr. Emiel van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u40	Then I hope that Mr Emiel van Dijk will not be an opposition member in the country of his highly praised Orbán. Because then he can't do exactly what he can do here now. That is the hypocrisy of pleading for a leader who does not tolerate any contradiction. Because if you're on the wrong side of the line, you're really on the wrong side. The value of democracy is that everyone is given freedom. Why are we so strict that this goes wrong in Hungary, Malta and Poland? Because it is people who express a minority opinion that is what the PVV is doing and that is what the SP is doing to give it the right to do so. If you don't defend that right, that makes it hypocritical.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u41	We'll defend that. The minority's right, these are all the PVV voters who are discriminated against here in order to favour asylum seekers. Those are people who see a house pass by their noses because status holders still get priority in this government. Those are the people we stand for. It's all a very noble ambition, what the SP says it wants in Hungary. They're free to do that. We choose Dutch. We are trying to do our job as an opposition here in the Netherlands. We have to fight hard for that, because it's not easy for us. We continue to do so and the last thing we need to worry about is what they do in Hungary, Poland, Germany or France.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u42	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u43	Mr. Chairman. The reason why we have to worry about what is happening in countries with democracy and the basic democratic principles is that we are a single European Union and there is a lot of money going to those countries. The moment you allow it, you have to have a level playing field. It must then be the minimum ground for respecting human rights and minority rights, political minorities but also minorities when it comes to orientation. It is crucial that you are allowed to organise yourself in a country and that there is therefore freedom of press and freedom of law. These are values that are under pressure not only in Poland and Hungary, but in several Member States. In fact, I think that we are weak in the argument about the state of law that we are conducting all the time, that we only want to talk about two regimes that would not be our own political family or the political family of Christian democracy, social democracy or the liberals, however liberal they are. In these families, too, we see the same worrying trend. Every time you see this goes through the money. It is European funds that ultimately support those in power in obtaining a greater basis of power. In Bulgaria, the population has been on the streets against the corrupt elite for months. The people say: get rid of it; we want these European funds to be well spent! And what does the European Union do? It takes the decision that the European funds will continue, even if the constitutional principles are not in order, at least that is what it seemed this summer. There was some kind of slump agreement that went completely beyond the limits of this Chamber. Now there are often other majorities here when it comes to the European Union in the socio-economic field, but here we really had a Chamber-wide majority, except for the PVV, the Forum for Democracy and the SGP, of parties that said: "We stand for human rights. We stand for the freedom of the press, for the freedom to bring you justice. Yeah, there's a lot wrong in the Netherlands. Yes, there is a lot to improve in the Netherlands, especially when it comes to access to justice. But this is the basis." And the Prime Minister didn't come home with that. He hoped that the European Parliament would negotiate a little. That negotiating agreement is now in place, not because of the right back of our Prime Minister, who had left with that mandate, but because the European Parliament has dragged it out of the negotiations. And what do Poland and Hungary say now? "We do not agree with this budget." That's their last offer. And I'd say we don't either. We will not compromise with Poland and Hungary. There are a lot of chamber motions, whether they are submitted by D66 and the Christian Union, by D66 and GroenLinks, by... I've signed several papers, including the VVD and the CDA. Every time a great majority of the House says: we want human rights, access to justice and the free press to be the basic principles for obtaining European funds. The Prime Minister cannot come home after this European summit with the fact that he left a feather on it. No more weak knees, but a straight back. Then the Brexit, also exciting. Where they used to beat each other in the head, that's what the European Union came up with. We are doing this now through negotiations within the European Union, if you are in it or if you are going out. It's still a fight to the bitter end. Now the Netherlands has again joined the hardliners for fishing. I ask the Prime Minister when we are informed about this and how we are involved in this negotiation. Every time I wanted to discuss a negotiating commitment with the Prime Minister or the Foreign Minister, they said: no, no, we negotiate as 27 together; we do nothing alone. And now the Netherlands only hangs out with France. How'd that go? Mr. Chairman. We cannot talk about the draft conclusions here, but we have just adopted a motion on this. With my very esteemed colleague, Mr Omtzigt, I said that the government should make the draft conclusions public. That didn't happen this time, but I do have a few specific questions about point 3. It says that we want to strengthen coordination on covid and then start the preparations for the holiday season again. All kinds of discussions are now taking place. Brexit is very exciting; that depends very much. We have the multiannual budget; that depends very much on it. I wondered why the European Council is already working on the holiday season. I see Mr Nijboer laughing, but why is that? There are proposals for a European Health Union. Why are they in there? We adopted a motion, also on 30 September this year, from Mrs Van der Graaf and myself that health care is not a European competence. So why is this welcomed? There's talk of climate. No target is mentioned yet. It is clear that we want more, the European Parliament wants more, but there are also countries that want less. What is still ahead of us, but it must be as cost-effective as possible to achieve that target. For whom should that be cost-effective, I ask the Prime Minister. For business? For governments? Or for those tenants who have too high an energy bill and can't do anything about their living conditions? I hope the latter. Then we have agreements on the Schengen area. There have been a number of terrorist attacks and agreements are now under way. Why isn't sharing information going well now? And what is the analysis that would improve such a European police partnership? Because that is what needs to be done now; that is the ambition. But what's not going well now? So what exactly is that solution for? Finally, Turkey, which violates the territorial boundaries of Greek waters. It has already been said "this is the last time, but never again." They've already gone over it twice. When are we going to support, as the European Union, but certainly also as the Netherlands, that there will be a limit there at some point? Greece is asking for this, and I think it is logical that we should support it. Mr. Chairman. There were a lot of things on the agenda. I'll see if I've had it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u44	I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u45	I think so. I cannot yet read the draft conclusions, but let us try every debate to talk a little more about the draft conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u46	That's good, Mrs. Leijten. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have five subjects I would like to raise. I shall begin with the degrading conditions in the refugee camps in Moria. The situation there is still deteriorating by the day. In September, three months ago, the very ugly trade-in of the coalition was on the table where 100 people would be taken care of. No one has yet been recorded in the Netherlands. I ask the cabinet: when is that going to happen? And when will the situation there finally improve? Mr. Chairman. The second issue I would like to raise is the Corona approach in Europe. Tomorrow is, of course, the great Corona debate here in plenary. My colleague Ploumen, together with Mr Ellemeet van GroenLinks, has proposed that compulsory licences should also be made possible if those pharmaceutical products do not want to make their vaccines and their response to this crisis available, if profits go before healing people. I ask the cabinet to make a commitment to this in Europe as well. There are also countries that have less access to medicines, to vaccines. It would be a good thing if Europe were to join forces in this area by taking action against the pharmaceutical companies who want to make a profit from this crisis. My third topic, Chairman, is the Brexit. It worries us all. At least, not all parties in this parliament are worried about Brexit, but most parties in parliament. They see the harmful consequences of the Brexit, and so does the Cabinet. I expect an enormous rise in unemployment and enormous consequences in England. But also in the Netherlands, the consequences will not be gentle. Well, I understand that the Prime Minister cannot give an immediate insight into exactly what is coming. Maybe he doesn't know that either. That is often so at exciting moments on the European stage. However, I would like to draw attention to one point. My group leader has also drawn attention to this on a number of occasions. I would like to draw attention to the use of lower tax rates to attract companies. We have put on the table a number of times that the Netherlands should actually discuss this in these negotiations, including in Europe. Because you'll see that England is becoming less competitive. You can already see that proposals are circulating to further reduce the tax on profits there in order to remain competitive. That is extremely undesirable, because other countries will be involved in this game, and eventually people will pay more taxes, and companies will pay less. I would like to ask the cabinet whether it has made a commitment to this, whether this is still being discussed, or whether it is still being discussed. And if it is not, I ask why the cabinet is not prepared to do so. Mr. Chairman. I come to my fourth point of the five points. This is about the rule of law mechanism that has been formed and is currently under discussion. It is clear that Poland and Hungary are playing very well; previous speakers have also said something about this. It is a disgrace how these countries deal with the rule of law, how gay rights are threatened, how journalistic freedoms are at stake and how judges cannot judge independently. The PvdA Group wants the cabinet to stand firm on this point. I also ask the cabinet whether it has worked on variants or cooperates with 25 countries to shape the European budget. That is a very far-reaching variant where you say: "We are going to do it with 25 countries in the coming years, and then Poland and Hungary are going to figure it out." Is that also on the table if these countries maintain their veto and their objections? Mr. Chairman. My final point is about the Recovery Fund. The Netherlands is entitled to 5.5 billion to 6 billion; it is something in between, I believe 5.6 billion. The Dutch government sent a very short note to the Chamber saying: "Well, we'll actually see it again in April and that money will stand." However, it is known that a significant part can also be invested in construction. If there is something common in the Dutch Parliament, then it is the idea that much more needs to be done about housing, about making housing more sustainable. There is also a risk of unemployment in this sector. BAM has already announced the first layoffs in the Netherlands. I'm asking the cabinet why it's waiting so long. There is still a growth fund, a Wopke-Wiebes fund, to be helped three months before the elections with steam and boiling water, because these investments are so badly needed. That was adopted by the Chamber today. But now there is money, and now people are going to wait, when that money can be used to combat unemployment and make our housing stock more sustainable. Why does the Cabinet do that and is the Prime Minister prepared to come back to that? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u48	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u49	Thank you, Mr President. At the end of this week, the European Heads of Government are coming back together for one of the most exciting summits we have seen in recent times, because there is an unprecedented amount at stake. Chasing the economy to cope with the blows of the pandemic, defending the rule of law in countries like Poland and Hungary, protecting the future of the earth with binding climate agreements, and completing the Brexit talks, or catching a hard no-dealbrexit. It is a summit in which the Heads of Government must show what they are worth. Do they dare to take ambitious steps forward? Do they hold on to the foundations of the European Union? Do they choose the future of our young people? Mr. Chairman. After months of negotiation, when we need European unity more than ever, two countries are blocking the European budget and the Restoration Fund for the corona crisis. Two countries block this because they do not want to commit to agreements they signed when they joined the Union. Poland and Hungary are thus placing a bomb under the budget, a bomb under European unity and a bomb under the restoration of our European economy. This is only a few weeks before the new multiannual budget has to go into effect. I wonder, following Mr Leijten's example, how we ended up here. How is it that the EU is being held hostage by autocrats who are destroying the rule of law and violating the fundamental values of the European Union, the club to which they owe a great deal of their economic prosperity, day in and day out? In part, I see a role there for European political families, who have been holding the Polish PiS Party and the Hungarian Fidesz Party over their heads for years. They must stop normalizing these runners of the rule of law. I would also like to return to the agreement reached in July. In the summer, this Prime Minister concluded an agreement with the other Heads of Government in which the rule of law agreements remained too vague. The European Parliament had to be involved, but it could not rectify everything. Because of the vagueness of the agreement between the Heads of Government, Poland and Hungary are now holding the EU hostage. A less close focus on the knowledge of the Dutch contribution could have given space to make better arrangements at that time. I have repeatedly pointed this out in these debates and, together with Mr Van Ojik and Mr Asscher, I have called on the Prime Minister to fight as hard for the rule of law as for the money that the Netherlands contributes to the budget. I ask the Prime Minister how he looks back on this prioritisation of his commitment during the summer negotiations. What lessons does he take for the future? In the coming days, the Council will have to keep its back straight. Several outcomes seem possible. Option one. Poland and Hungary still agree. Well, that'd be great, but I'm afraid that's a long shot. Option two. There will be a statement, as the Poles propose. A kind of insert that states that the rule of law mechanism will not apply to one or more themes. That's a special route. For this purpose, I would like to repeat today the confirmation I received recently from the Prime Minister during Question Time: we, the Netherlands, never agree to any kind of weakening of the rule of law mechanism, not even through a Polish insert. What is now in place is and remains the absolute minimum. There is also a third option. Poland and Hungary continue their veto and we need to find an alternative route for the Recovery Fund, because the budget will then continue in fractions of one twelfth per month, but the Recovery Fund will not in principle. I understand that we are considering a route whereby the Recovery Fund is closed with 24 or 25 countries, without Poland, Hungary and possibly Slovenia, should they persist in their veto. My question to the Prime Minister is how he appreciates these scenarios. Should Poland and Hungary indeed persist in the veto, how quickly can such an alternative recovery fund enter into force? What procedures are involved? How do we ensure the role of the European Court and the European Parliament, so that there is democratic control over a possible intergovernmental recovery fund? I'll wait for Mrs. Leijten, if you don't mind, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u50	That's good. Mrs. Leijten, you're running out of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u51	Yes, I know, Mr. Chairman. I wonder if these are all the alternatives. Of course, we can't let the Recovery Fund go in, can we, and renegotiate. Then something better could come out. Apart from the Recovery Fund, I am concerned about the new Multiannual Financial Framework. Suppose Poland and Hungary disqualify themselves completely for that Recovery Fund, which we think very differently about, then that Multiannual Financial Framework goes on. This is also an enormous flow of money every year to countries where we say: do not do so if the constitutional principles are not enforced. Why is Mr Jetten not talking about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u52	It is a good thing Mrs Leijten is asking, because I can clarify that. Indeed, if the budget, the Multiannual Financial Framework, is not adopted now, it will go on every month, in sections. There is a great deal of money in it for major challenges in Europe, including a lot of money that these countries can benefit from. Last time in Question Time, I asked the Prime Minister: is it true that the rule of law mechanism for the MFF could enter into force by means of a majority decision, so that it would also apply to a possible MFF which would be released on a monthly basis? Then the answer was: yes, the rule of law mechanism can still be used by majority decision-making. It seems to me very sensible that this applies to the Multiannual Financial Framework, and thus to those countries which are failing to comply with the rule of law, when they want to claim funds from that budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u53	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u54	So, if I understand correctly, you say that there are three options for the Recovery Fund, to which I add a fourth, namely simply not to continue with the Recovery Fund. And about the Multiannual Financial Framework, you say: that must be, in principle, that emergency provision, per month, with a rule of law mechanism.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u55	Yes, you just need that rule of law mechanism, both on the Recovery Fund and on that budget. I fully agree with Mrs Leijten. I do hope that there will be a solution to the Multiannual Financial Framework, because for the great ambitions surrounding the Green Deal, Security, improving migratory flows and so on, you will need perspective and not a monthly budget. I hope that the commitment will be to have the Multiannual Financial Framework, including the rule of law mechanism.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u56	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u57	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u58	I hope that I have answered Mrs Leijten's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u59	If you'll allow me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u60	Finally, but then you are...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u61	Let me get this straight. I will not deny the importance of spending in the Multiannual Financial Framework. But we are going to keep our backs straight and demand that the principle of the rule of law should come into play, not allow us to be distracted from the Recovery Fund, which, in turn, does not go on or on in any other way, while we allow the MFF to pass? 'Cause then we'll be stuck with it for seven years. I would now like to hear from D66 that this should apply to both, that the Prime Minister should not come back with a compromise, not on the Recovery Fund, but also on the MFF, when it comes to the bottom of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u62	Yes, I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u63	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u64	The independence of Polish courts and thus the right to a fair trial in Poland are under considerable pressure. A week ago, the House of Representatives adopted a motion to refer Poland to the European Court for failure to comply with an obligation on Poland under the Treaties. Can the Prime Minister indicate how the cabinet is going to implement this motion? I would like to hear his response to the 'counter-proposal' of a Polish Minister of Justice, who is now trying to sew the Netherlands' Article 7 procedure on account of tax avoidance. Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying two other things. First of all, the climate. Yesterday, young people on the Malieveld reminded us clearly: combating global warming is the greatest challenge of our time. It will only work if we do it together, if we do it Europeanly. The European Green Deal for greening is in the starting blocks. Dutch companies and households can also benefit enormously from this. That Green Deal also calls for binding and ambitious agreements to reduce CO emissions. We can support the decision on the European Commission's proposal to reduce CO emissions by 55% by 2030. The increase in ambitions has been achieved thanks, among other things, to the firm commitment of this cabinet. Unfortunately, however, decisions have been postponed on several occasions. Can the Prime Minister make every effort to reach a decision at this summit, regardless of the discussions on MFF and Recovery Fund, on the target of 55% CO reduction? As the last, Chairman, the Brexit. Today we heard some cautious positive signals about movements in the negotiations, but in three weeks' time it will be. If no final agreement is reached, the British will leave without a trade deal. That can also hit the Dutch trade economy hard. I have one question about this: is Dutch business together with the Dutch government sufficiently prepared for the scenario of such a hard Brexit without a trade agreement? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u65	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Like many colleagues, I am starting with the rule of law mechanism, one of the important points on this agenda of the forthcoming European Summit. The Christian Union once again calls on the government not to undermine this. Do not turn it into a deposit sheet, as Mr Jetten just pointed out, and let us not limit the posts to which that rule of law mechanism would apply. Mr. Chairman. Poland and Hungary are very clear about how they view this; they do not want this. I would like to say to these countries: if they have nothing to hide, then they should not be afraid of this mechanism either. The rule of law mechanism was proposed as a regulation at the time. It is then linked to the negotiations on the MFF. Earlier, I asked if we shouldn't even disconnect that. That was not desirable, because all this had to be given a place in the negotiations with the MKF. But is it not time to decide separately, which does not require unanimity? I'd like to get a response from the Prime Minister. About the Brexit. Negotiations with the United Kingdom are daily rates. I ask the Prime Minister how the fishermen are currently being prepared for this. Because it's an incredibly exciting time for them. What exactly can they expect when there is no deal on 1 January? How are they prepared and supported by the government? And do we stick to the social and food safety standards as we have them? We see that the British legislation that has already been adopted is seriously undermining that. Let us stick to our high standards in Europe. I'd like a confirmation from the Prime Minister. Then there are two issues relating to Turkey. With Mrs Leijten I ask: when has the border reached? We see the Turks constantly provoking and carrying out actions, illegal actions. Given the government's reaction, you might think it's okay again. On 30 November, the ships of the Turks were withdrawn from the disputed Greek waters. But when was that line reached for the cabinet? When will we proceed to effective sanctions, to which the European Parliament has also called for the European Council this week? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, Turkey is also involved in the recent war on Nagorno-Karabakh. The Russia-mediated ceasefire has prevented total ethnic cleansing, but many Armenians have fled. We hear about it and see the images of terrible human rights violations against prisoners of Armenians. The Armenian people aren't safe yet. We seriously wonder whether they can be given security without a final settlement of the conflict, with Nagorno-Karabakh being given a status to protect the area. I would like a response from the Prime Minister on this point. How does he intend to raise this issue, even at the European Summit this week? Is the government prepared to make an effort to this end? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u67	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u68	Mr President, thank you very much. Sometimes it seems as if the Von der Leyen Commission is giving the EU wings. Communications follow proposals, action plans and directives. It can't go on; a flying start. However, I would like to continue to emphasise that the real wings of the EU are the Member States and their citizens. Looking back at the four years that have gone by, my sincere fear is that the EU will be able to distinguish matters to a lesser extent. Member States are constrained by too much of the European Commission's own ambition, and I am afraid that in the long term this will put the EU out of business. Mr. Chairman. Due to time, I mainly limit myself to a number of questions. As far as the Recovery Fund is concerned, it is now proposed to continue without Poland and Hungary through the so-called enhanced cooperation. I would like to hear the Prime Minister's reaction to this. Is this a workable route? To what extent does this set a precedent allowing other Member States to pass the decision-making process against their will and veto? I would like a clear and clear answer to that. If a recovery fund is set up with a limited group of Member States, it is a striking example of the variation within the European Union that the SGP advocated at the time, as well as the Scientific Council for Government Policy. But let us, as the Netherlands, be on the right side. If other Member States want to increase their debts enormously, that is their responsibility, but do not let the Netherlands take the blame for it. How is the Prime Minister going to prevent this? With regard to COVID-19, it is understandable that countries should coordinate matters, for example to reduce their joint dependence on imports from China, but let alone coordinate and advise them, and not lead to regulation. Mrs Leijten rightly pointed the finger at the fact that the EU seems to be constantly measuring wider powers in the field of health care. Does the Prime Minister share this approach? Then the point of climate. As a SGP, we are concerned about the proposed increase in the European climate target to 55% CO reduction by 2030. Brussels has already indicated that the reduction in the built environment should be further increased. We in the Netherlands are constantly running into how difficult this is. And not only this; there are other challenges in the field of nature, environment and climate. Why does the cabinet not insist in Brussels that it should first be made clearer what this means at Member State level, before making any decisions? I would like to receive the reassuring answer that the Prime Minister is going to give himself full support. Mr. Chairman. The European coordination of the fight against terrorism is a good thing. Good surveillance of external borders is very important for all Member States. Does the Prime Minister believe that a Member State which does not have its border control in order can still be part of the Schengen area? Moreover, the most recent attacks show that terrorists have been staying in the EU for a long time or are even permanently established. What role does the Prime Minister see for the Member States to signal and prevent radicalisation as early as possible? Finally, President, the SGP welcomes the EU initiative for two EU-US summits in 2021. After all, transatlantic friendship remains of immense strategic importance. My group would like the Netherlands to focus on security coordination and cooperation on digital and technological issues, including a fist against China. A few other questions. Is the Prime Minister prepared to argue within the Council that the EU should actively support and embrace the Abraham agreements between Israel and the Arab countries? And finally. Is the Prime Minister prepared to work to strengthen the EU's position against Iran and its nuclear programme, which is increasingly a threat to the Middle East but also to the world? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u69	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The limité documents are there to be read out. That's what we said as a room. I would therefore like to point out the points made by Mrs Leijten. Indeed, the European Council welcomes the coordination of efforts at EU level to combat covid, and wants to lift the restrictive measures, including to allow normal travel in view of the forthcoming holiday season of 2021. That's not exactly a top priority. In the meantime, I am curious to see how the European Union is reacting to the fact that Switzerland is going to open its ski slopes again. Austria keeps them close after a little pressure from the European Union. In view of the previous ski season and its consequences for the rest of Europe, I do not think it is very sensible. My colleague from the PVV has already said that there is talk about combating anti-Semitism and racism, and rightly so, because there are good reasons for this, but not about where that terrorism came from in Austria, France and Germany. That has miraculously disappeared from the text. Maybe it's interesting to know why. Mr. Chairman. It will be an interesting summit, not just because, as my colleague from GroenLinks said, it will happen behind the video, which will give a different dynamic. No? Are you coming together? Oh, it's physical. It's gonna be another nice exhaustion blow. Very nice! I would like to touch on a number of points; the same points as my fellow Members. These are the MFF Restoration Fund, the rule of law mechanism, the Brexit, Turkey, Belarus and a number of other things. There are three dossiers together, namely the multiannual budget of 1 100 billion, the Recovery Fund of 750 billion and the rule of law mechanism. Now you can adopt the rule of law mechanism by qualified majority. It cannot be blocked by Poland and Hungary. My question is: why don't you make sure you put the order proposal with a number of countries to the vote first? Then the rule of law mechanism has been adopted and applies to everything that follows. Then you can continue with the other two packages. You can do that. We would like confirmation from the government that the current rule of law mechanism really is the lower limit. So we're not gonna bargain with it, we're not gonna undress it, and we're not gonna say that it applies to part of the expenditure or that it doesn't apply to migration. It's about the whole state of law. We're not gonna have any binding inserts, if that's possible. I'd like a firm commitment to that. Can the Prime Minister state what will happen if there is no deal on the MFF on 31 December? Can he provide the Chamber with an overview of projects which expire in the Netherlands and for which there is no funding at the time? I would also like to know what is happening to the EEA. This is very important because of vaccines and other things. What happens to ESA in Noordwijk? And what happens to the discount? Then the way out of this impasse, namely to do it with 25 countries. That's the nuclear option. For the CDA, it is not a very strong case that we agree to that. We would like to know what the Prime Minister wants to propose. For remember: if there is a veto, then the enhanced cooperation will not go on either, because the blocking country is not going to say: you can do enhanced cooperation. For enhanced cooperation, you need unanimity in order to start enhanced cooperation. In other words, the rest of you have to agree to it. So you only have an intergovernmental treaty, at 25, and you have no control of the European Parliament and you do not have the European Court. Then you must set up something completely outside the institutions of the European Union. I know that a number of people here have serious objections to the European Parliament. I also know a few defects, but no control by the European Parliament is really much worse than control by the European Parliament, I can tell you. Hence: no maddest plans, but first just ask permission here. I'd like that commitment. Finally, we would like to know about Portugal, the new President of the EU. On behalf of all of us, they are entering into negotiations with Poland and Hungary on the rule of law. Once again, the media are able to hold confidential minutes of the November Council, but we as a parliament do not get them. The documents would show that Portugal is in the camps of Poland and Hungary. They publicly support the rule of law mechanism, but at the Council meeting they support Poland and Hungary. Can the Prime Minister confirm this? Then the Brexit, chairman, also brought in by colleagues. Over the last few weeks, we have seen thousands of trucks bringing goods to the UK. There are major congestions in Calais and at Hoek van Holland. It could be a harbinger of what awaits us. The UK is hoarding now that doomsday can be there, because preparations are not equally good everywhere. But we keep hope for a deal. The chances of it becoming an EU-only treaty, i.e. only a trade treaty, seem to me to be rather small. It would then have to fall entirely within the scope of EU competences. The wide range of issues that remain on the table does not allow this. If it is a mixed treaty, it should be explicitly approved by the Dutch First and Second Chambers. That's a constitutional right. If necessary, we will return as Lower House for it between Christmas and old and new. But if it is a mixed treaty, I would like to know when we will hear it, how it will be presented and how Parliament's constitutional assent will be properly regulated. We talked extensively about the Tax Administration during the legislative consultation on the Collecting Law Brexit. This is about the British who live here and are covered by the transitional law. They must be treated as Dutch taxpayers or as other EU taxpayers, as long as they stay here. There's been some trouble with the IRS. Then someone is labeled as a fraud and gets stuck in the complex systems of the Tax Administration. The answer was: these people need to be self-reliant, or they need to call the Tax Administration and explain that they really need to be treated differently. I'd like to know if it can be arranged with one phone call. In other words, I want the Prime Minister's assurance that there are no problems arising from the Tax Administration for this category around the Brexit. Mr. Chairman. Then, as far as Turkey and Belarus are concerned. During the previous Council, the Heads of Government concluded that the Union is ready to use the whole instrument if Turkey continues to persevere in unilateral actions and provocations. Well, and there were! People get busted. The provocations in the Mediterranean are continuing. Greece is being provoked. Cyprus is provoked on the assembly line in the exclusive territorial zone. And Turkey, even if it is a member of the customs union, we have a customs union with Turkey, while we will not even have a union with the UK, and it is also okay to boycott the products from France, because France has said something about Islamist terrorism. Oh, boy. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Two things. Can we get a European plan to fight Islamism and terror? It's on the agenda to discuss. I would like countries to exchange this explicitly. Where does the terror come from? How do we get these people, or ISIS, or radicalized from Chechnya or anywhere else, and how do we fight them together? Because these people can travel freely in the Schengen area. Does the Dutch Government intend to take the initiative in this respect? And two. The Dutch Government, now that we support these countries for once... we often criticize Greece. We sometimes criticize France, but here they are right. So I think we should take a position together and also be prepared to deal with those sanctions. Is that the Dutch government? Then Belarus. Opposition leader Svetlana Tichanovskaya was here. As a reprisal, her husband's in jail. Her husband was the opposition leader; it's her now. She was able to speak to her husband once in those six months. Of course, that's assault on that man, but it's also assault on her. The regime is holding her hostage. I really want the Dutch Government to work with other governments to visit these people as much as possible. Because what's going on in those prisons defies descriptions. Will the Dutch Government take this up as a matter of urgency, whatever it promises in Minister Blok's letter and set up a joint mission to visit these people? Now that the European Magnitsky Act has been adopted and implemented, many thanks for the efforts of Minister Blok and this government, it seems to me that a number of people in Belarus are applying extensively to join that list. Couldn't it be a first proposal to put it on there? Can we then see whether this law, not immediately, can also be extended for corruption and for people who have a double passport, who, for example, have bought a passport on............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Mr. Chairman. I agree with my colleague Van der Graaf on Nagorno-Karabakh. When is this investigation due? We have here an approved motion from both of our parties. For that investigation of exactly what happened, to point out who was guilty of war crimes, everyone is really looking at each other. So how are we going to get that investigation off the ground? And all the way to the end, Mr. Chairman. 55% is 55%. It's fine if that comes into the conclusions, but it doesn't have to go higher. Can we know we're not too high? If even Frans Timmermans thinks it's pretty impossible to get up there, then surely it's impossible? I think it would be wise not to repress ourselves with European rules that we cannot then implement. We've done that before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u71	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. Mr Koopmans is next. No, it is not; I have Mr Baudet on my list. I call Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. How are you, Mr. Baudet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u72	I'm fine, but I miss Theo so much. But, yes, we all miss them. There is a call from the Chamber that I have a new colleague, but I only have colleagues here; but that is quite aside. I have a comrade in my group these days.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u73	Begin, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u74	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, Prime Minister. Today it was announced that only a small part of the coronamils receiving Southern Europe from the Netherlands are, of course, a ridiculous idea in itself that we should have to pay through the EU or have had to pay for healthcare in neighbouring countries. That is something I warned you about earlier, but of course what was said here again to deaf ears. It was predictable. Only 4.6% of the funds that go to Italy go to health care. By the way, that's still about 9 billion, but okay. Meanwhile, €17.1 billion goes to gender equality policy and €74.3 billion to climate policy. So, of the Northern European taxpayers' money, 74.3 billion goes there. It is a new example, yet another example, of the European coup d'état. The EU does not miss a chance to draw more power towards itself. This is evident in a variety of different themes, which will also be discussed at the forthcoming EU summit. So one of them is the corona fund. Last week, the Reformatorisch Dagblad reported that the European Commission wants Member States to introduce a curfew. The redistribution fund is now also being used for gender policies and climate events, whereas we need our money now more than ever for economic reconstruction in our own country, a result of the extremely unintelligent VVD lockdown, with permission. Frans Timmermans now wants to increase the CO reduction targets. This is now laid down in European rules, he announced. Unacceptable, of course, because apart from being completely pointless, stupid and priceless, it is also a huge violation of our sovereignty. After all, we can never get rid of it. But that too will be on the agenda of the European Summit tomorrow. I ask the Prime Minister to stand up for national sovereignty. The same applies to the banking union, because, of course, the corona situation is also being used to achieve a further grip on capital movements: a new capital market action plan to make the economic recovery green, digital, inclusive and resilient. So Brussels also wants to interfere with the way in which we are going to get out of the current situation. There is also talk of a rule of law which restricts free countries in their free choice, such as Hungary and Poland. All of the EU's obvious powers. In the meantime, what is not on the agenda, but at least as far-reaching, are the Brussels plans to further facilitate immigration from Africa and the Middle East. Marrakesh 2 is the new pact that the EU wants to push through this year. I have asked for a debate on this on several occasions. I may have been granted it, but it's been postponed again, so I'm bringing it up now. The message is, as always, in the VVD election program. In ten years of Rutte, we've seen immigration record after immigration record, year in, year out, but the immigration pact goes on. Marrakesh has been signed and now there is a follow-up from the EU. My question to the Prime Minister is: can he announce at the EU summit that the Netherlands will not agree to this EU immigration pact? If you don't, we'll know what it's gonna do. The EU's grip of power continues. Mr President, FvD is also continuing. We continue to work for Dutch sovereignty, Dutch prosperity and Dutch identity. By the way, I think Theo Hiddema should be sitting there right now. I salute him from this place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u75	I think he's sneaking back. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Koopmans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am replacing Mr Bosman today, who cannot attend because of health problems. Through you, Mr President, and certainly with you, I would like to wish him well. But it is also good to see many of my old colleagues again in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u77	Yeah, to be seen again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u78	It is also very good that this Prime Minister is going to the European Summit and that it is he who will stand up there for the national interest and for our common European values. I have about eight subjects which I will deal with very quickly, I promise, Mr President-in-Office. First and foremost corona. There is a great deal of work on European coordination. That is a good thing, but national effectiveness must always be paramount. I would like to ask the Prime Minister what cooperation is now foreseen. And what impact does the different approaches between the Member States have on us if we coordinate with them as much as possible? Then the Brexit, Chairman. A limited agreement or a no-deal or a successful agreement but an agreement that would undermine the level playing field is all very undesirable. That costs jobs, that harms our entrepreneurs, that is bad for the Netherlands. We must therefore also work towards a united EU, on a broad agreement and again on that level playing field. It must not be the case that the British have advantages that the Dutch do not have. I ask the Prime Minister to continue on the right track. At the same time, we must ensure as much as possible that everyone in the Netherlands is prepared for the possibility of failure. But even if things are going well, the transition period will come to an end and everyone must be prepared. Mr. Chairman. The climate. We are, of course, nationalising the measures needed to achieve that 49% reduction in 2030. In Europe, we are in favour of 55%, but it is important that we do so together. I know that that is the Prime Minister's approach, so I am expressing support for this line on behalf of the VVD. A little more difficult is the relationship with Turkey. I would remind you of a motion which I tabled here two years ago with Mr Omtzigt and which I believe was adopted. Turkey cannot become a member of the European Union. The accession negotiations must therefore also be terminated. We must then also look at the actions that Turkey is now showing. It has already been recalled: ships are still sailing in areas of Greece and Cyprus. It goes on and on. When is it now considered that it has gone too far? And, if so, what steps will be taken? I will then come to the rule of law mechanism. It is, of course, insufferable, and we have already discussed this in detail: Poland and Hungary are putting pressure on the whole of the Union. Their veto must, of course, not lead to concessions to the rule of law mechanism as it stands. The Prime Minister has already indicated that what is now the lower limit and that these countries themselves must come up with a solution. I just want to say here: hold on to that, Prime Minister, you have our support. As far as the Recovery Fund and the MFF are concerned, it must be clear that the reforms remain necessary for entry into force. I have two other subjects, but I can see that Mrs Buitenweg already has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u79	I see Mr Jetten, too. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u80	We're here now! I myself indicated in my speech that I think it is necessary that some forces within Hungary and Poland, for example, such as the few independent media in Poland or the Ombudsman under attack, should be supported from Europe, possibly financially. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u81	I would first like to know what Mrs Buitenweg means. Does she want us to give Dutch subsidies to the free media there or does she mean via Europe or something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u82	This can also clearly be done from Europe, but there are certain mechanisms for financial support for civil society that are under pressure in those countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u83	I am not a specialist, but I think I know that the European Union has many programmes to support civil society and to strengthen the groups mentioned by Mrs Buitenweg. So I'm curious what she wants on top of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u84	However, I do have some support in saying that you think this is useful in itself. This is what I'm talking about. In the final examination of the budget for development cooperation, the VVD, through Mr Weverling, said that we should no longer buy our own contradiction. He said it's basically bullshit and odd that projects targeting government policy are funded with taxpayers' money. I thought that was quite a spicy remark. It means that we are not going to fund organisations that may sometimes be critical of the government from taxpayers' money. That is what we want, what I want, including in countries such as Hungary and Poland. That is why I ask: is this the line of the VVD or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u85	I have two things to say, because I think that Mrs Buitenweg is also confusing two things. The first point we have just discussed is that the European Union supports the free media in the sense that there must be journalists who are free to investigate and express their views. I think there are a lot of programmes for that, but again, I am not the specialist. It happens. I certainly wouldn't suggest lifting it. That goes on and that's good. The second point is quite different: the discussion Mrs Buitenweg had with my colleague Mr Weverling during the budget debate on development cooperation. The position of the VVD there may be very clear. We give a lot of money for charities. That is very nice, but of course it is not necessary to spend development cooperation money in the Netherlands. It's okay. That's very good, that's what we're a democratic society for, but that's what you do with your own supporters, with your own donors. That is the democratic rule of law. We don't have to subsidise that, do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u86	Finally, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u87	I think it is important that we ensure that there is sufficient critical noise. This requires that it be subsidised. At least, it doesn't necessarily have to, but it may require that. When there are insufficient other sources of funding, it is important to support civil society, so that all these different noises are heard. This is important in certain European Member States, it is important in developing countries and it is also important in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u88	Mrs. Buitenweg is failing herself. She herself is an example of those critical counter-sounds. Should she be subsidised? Well, I hope GroenLinks gets the same money as all political parties. That's really good. In addition, we in the Netherlands, but even more so in the European Union, also give money to support civil society in general, the free media and all that. I was not in the debate, but what Mr Weverling undoubtedly said... did you not? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u89	I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u90	Then it's hard to review it now. But I want to do my best. He will no doubt have said that we are in favour of critical noises. But we do not need to subsidise an action group from the development cooperation budget in order to establish the policy that we here democratically, including Mrs Buitenweg's counter-noise...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u91	I think we voted on a motion on this today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u92	Can you check it out?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u93	I thought so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u94	I am pleased that Mr Koopmans is also in favour of the rule of law mechanism, because of course these violations of the rule of law in Hungary and Poland are unacceptable. But it didn't come out of the sky in those two countries. It is a movement that has been deployed from the political point of view for a number of years and which is now slowly leading to the crumbling of the rule of law. To be honest, I have taken the VVD election programme for the Dutch Parliamentary elections of March next year with increasing amazement over the last few weeks. It states that we must be able to correct the ECHR's political statements, that laws should no longer be subject to review under the European Convention on Human Rights, that groups should not be able to sue for the public interest. In short, the VVD election programme actually puts judges in the fucking corner and does exactly what they want in Poland and Hungary. When they read the VVD election programme in Poland, they thought: yes, the VVD is going to help us get rid of those horrible European judges and prevent them from interfering with what is happening in our country. Precisely the damage to the democratic rule of law in Hungary and Poland caused by wrong electoral programmes, I now read in Mr Koopmans's VVD election programme. I can't wait to see how he looks at that program.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u95	The way I look at this input from Mr Jetten is with some surprise, because he uses great and, I would say, populist words about something that is very specific and on paper. I hope that's the paper he's holding now. I can say three things about that. Firstly, the proposal in the programme that the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe is given the opportunity to give a unanimous interpretation of the interpretation of the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights. This helps to interpret these very large provisions. I would say that is quite useful, because the 1950 Treaty is about extremely important but very general things, such as the right to life, the right to family life and that sort of thing. That's very common. It would then be useful for you, as the Council of Ministers, to give an interpretation of this. That's good. That's good. I think it's a little populist, too. Mr Jetten says here on behalf of D66 that the proposals contained in the VVD programme... There is now a very democratic debate within the VVD. Mr Jetten is welcome to interfere, albeit first to become a member. Then we can talk about the wording.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u96	Well. I want a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u97	These are serious proposals to improve the rule of law. It is an important and fundamental point, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u98	Everything we discuss here is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u99	I really want to answer Mr Jetten seriously. They are serious proposals to strengthen the rule of law, to strengthen participation and democracy. What Mr Jetten is doing now is equivalent to what Mr Orbán is doing, to what is happening in Poland. He is actually saying to Orbán and Poland in reverse: what you are doing is actually something like a state-of-the-art discussion about the VVD's election programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u100	I'm going to see Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u101	I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman. It's not only my review, it's also the review of former VVD member Arend Jan Boekestin, who writes on his website: "The VVD is not on earth to help autocrats. If it is up to the VVD, we will help the Polish government to correct judges through the Committee of Ministers." I hope that those VVD members who are discussing this election programme these weeks will be sensible and take these proposals, which undermine the rule of law, out of their electoral programme. Otherwise, you will go on the path we are now blaming other countries for. And we shouldn't. That's really very unwise, Mr. Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u102	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u103	That proposal is therefore, among other things, to give those interpretative explanations, in order to clarify certain judgments, unanimously and legally. Another point that Mr Jetten considers so unfair is that a distinction is made between treaties which now work directly in the Netherlands and the incorporation of treaties into national law. I can tell Mr Jetten that it is all in Germany, Denmark and Norway as proposed in the VVD election programme. If he thinks that is non-democratic and non-right-wing, he should also look at Germany and Norway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u104	Then I just need a statement from Mr Koopmans. Mr Koopmans now says that it must be done unanimously. Well, believe me, 47 countries within the Council of Europe who find something unanimous and the Netherlands that they agree with Russia, Turkey, Norway and Cyprus at the same time: it is not. So that's never gonna happen. The word "unanimous" is not included in the electoral programme either. It is therefore a simple majority. I can tell you that a majority in the Council of Europe with the decline of the rule of law in a large part of Europe is beginning to become problematic. So is it unanimous or a majority? Secondly, Mr Koopmans said that ministers could interpret the ruling. That means they can fill something out. But the election program of the VVD says the word "correct." There's a subtle difference between interpreting and correcting. So is it "interpreting" or "correcting"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u105	I come back here to the plan that the VVD laid down ten years ago, which has been being put forward for years and which has now taken shape here. With regard to the word "correct" or "interpreting," I can say the following. The point is that, at least as I read it, the plan, which we laid down ten years ago, long before I was there, says that it is not on individual matters. That's not the point. It is not possible to correct an individual case with retroactive effect. The point is that a collective of ministers in a general sense can try to explain and guide provisions in a 1950 treaty. Finally, I would say that this is also useful. In 1950 it was not foreseen that there are now all matters relating to the extension of the right of asylum or the social system. The Court has now even declared rights of distribution to property rights. Then it would be useful, as a collective of governments, to give an interpretation for the future. The Court can do whatever it wants with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u106	Mr Koopmans, in one answer, has distanced himself from the VVD programme on three points. I think that's pretty good. It does not say "unanimous," but Mr Koopmans does say "unanimous." But I'll forgive him for that. Secondly, it really says: correcting statements. When it comes to interpreting the European Convention on Human Rights, there has not been such a discussion, because that Convention is indeed a treaty, and Mr Koopmans has had a point there for more than 50 years. How do you interpret "letter secret" in a time of internet? There is a good thing to say that the Member States are in favour of this. That's not the problem here. It says correct. That does not mean that governments should say to a judge: we do not agree with it for the future. We can do the same here in the Chamber. If we do not agree with a court ruling, we say: we should not make that criminal. The D66 colleagues want to criminalise fewer drug offences, which is fine, but they do not do so retroactively. That's very important. Mr. Jetten doesn't say here: when I come to power, anyone who's committed a drug crime doesn't exist anymore. But here it is said to correct. This means that a country such as Russia can vote Ukraine and such a way and say: we are going to correct the judgment of the judge. Is that what the VVD is proposing or isn't that what the VVD is proposing? I'm not interested in that memo from ten years ago; I'm interested in what's in the election program.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u107	In my opinion, what is in the final election programme will not be adopted for a few weeks. There is now a lively debate in the very democratic VVD on all amendments. I'm going to give you what's in the concept and how I interpret it. As far as the correction is concerned, you may be able to clarify that, but it's not about looking back in the end. It is not like: there has been a statement and we, as ministers, are going to turn it around. Of course you can't. That couldn't be right. I will explain to Mr Omtzigt what this is about. You can say that there was a ruling on a very general thing: the right to life. But that gets a certain direction. That's getting more and more shape. Over the years, it has a certain meaning. You see a continuous line. Perhaps then you could collectively say as a Committee of Ministers in the Council of Europe: we want to give that line a different direction, looking forward and in a general sense. That's how I understand it, and that's how I'm gonna argue it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u108	Finally. It says here 'adapting the ECHR so that the Committee of Ministers' are the 47 Foreign Ministers 'in the Council of Europe the opportunity to correct judgments of the European Court of Human Rights which are contrary to the intention of the Member States'. So it does say here that you're talking about existing statements. If I don't understand it already, it could lead to some misunderstanding on the left and right. So I see a different interpretation here, and I think that we will be asking again in the next debate what will be about the precise interpretation. Because towards the future I get him, but to correct past statements... Well, boy, then the champagne goes loose in Moscow and Ankara.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u109	It seems clear to me that looking back on the past, you cannot correct a court ruling. The authors of the programme certainly did not mean that either. If that is to be clarified, it will be clarified in the fine democratic debate we have in the VVD. I invite Mr Omtzig, like Mr Jetten, to intervene. Only, they'll have to jump for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u110	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u111	In the end, however, it is important that we all stand for the rule of law and that it would be a good thing for a Court which now has very new problems to understand, such as the right of asylum, the Dublin Regulation and social security rights, to be helped by interpretations of the Committee of Ministers. Mr. Chairman. I was almost on the last subject, but not quite yet. We still had security and the fight against terrorism. It is very important that we strengthen the Schengen area. It is also very good that we are now working on the exchange of information between the police of European states, in particular with a view to combating terrorists and terrorist online content. I understand that it is being worked on, but I ask the Prime Minister what are the obstacles to rapid implementation. What else can the Netherlands do? I also ask him about the implementation of the Becker motion, which has just been adopted on the preparation of a strengthening of Schengen in the event of another migration crisis or another crisis. Has this motion been implemented yet? Finally, the leadership meeting or meeting, you will say, of the EU and the African Union. I understand that it is not now taking place with the participation of the Prime Minister himself. But he's indirectly involved. I would ask him to focus on equality in particular. That also means reciprocity. This also means that we must beware of the rule of law in Africa. Is it not possible, as we are discussing this point on Hungary and Poland, to make demands on the ways in which these states deal with the funds they may receive from the European Union? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u112	Mrs. Leijten, you are through your interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u113	It's okay with me. But you're the chairman and you're very strict, I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u114	I would say that it can also be done in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u115	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u116	Well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u117	You're the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u118	Good. Then I will go to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS. Mr Van Otterloo is the last speaker. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u119	Mr. Chairman. I'll try to be very brief. 50PLUS is often very critical of the European Union, especially if we think there is too much interference with what is happening in the Netherlands. But in this case, I think we can say to the Prime Minister that he can count on our full support when it comes to the rule of law in Europe. Because there are no excuses for those countries that want to use the resources from Europe to suppress their own country, not to give freedom to critical media and to distribute European funds to their corrupt friends. In this respect, there are no negotiable principles when it comes to the rule of law. When it comes to the money that comes from Europe, we are very concerned that in this whole discussion we are forgetting how important European funds are for a number of Dutch organisations, Dutch territories. I am thinking, for example, of stopping gas extraction in the north. I am thinking of the investments we must make and the amount of money we need to overcome the corona crisis. Finally, we are very concerned about the Brexit. Unlike some other parties here in the country, I see a country that has been hit in a deep economic crisis. Britain has dropped to fifth place as a trading partner of the Netherlands. The farther it goes, the worse it goes in England. There is no country so affected by corona and on top of that the Brexit. Let that be a good lesson for us, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u120	Thank you, Mr. Van Otterloo. That also brings us to the end of the first term of office. Let me take a look at the Prime Minister. Twenty minutes? Shall we... 15 minutes, yeah. I think you knew it was going to be 15 minutes. Just negotiating. Then I'll suspend the meeting until 11:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u121	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u122	Mr. Chairman. There's a lot to ask and a lot to answer, and it's late, so let me try to do it as "concise" as possible. I'll start Brexit. There's actually not that much news about Brexit right now. You know what major points seem to be there. But the European Council is not going to make a move this week. I expect it will be through the negotiators for the time being. But of course it runs on fishing, it runs on "managed divergence." Dynamic alignment is not possible, but how can you try to ensure that the internal market remains whole? And there are a number of other things, but fishing and the level playing field are the two main issues. Against that background, I come to the questions. My expectation is that it will be an 'EU-only agreement'. There are no elements in the package that should make it a mixed agreement anyway. I think that is what is being sent to in Brussels. Of course that will be discussed with Parliament, so we will send it to Parliament with an appreciation. In February, we informed the Chamber of the mandate for the European Commission on the basis of which Barnier negotiates. This was also discussed in a number of debates here, including at the General Affairs Council and the European Council where Brexit was on the agenda. Fishing is, of course, part of this. Yes, of course there is a risk that the British will opt for lower profit tax. A question has been asked about this. In itself, however, this is a national competence. Part of the discussion is that we insist that the United Kingdom, of course, continues to comply with the OECD tax directives. But it is not the case that we can now enforce that in these negotiations. The level playing field: yes. Combating unfair competition: yes. The Ploumen motion on that point, of course, too. We would, of course, be very unhappy if this tax on profits were to be reduced, but you cannot guarantee that through these negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u123	Are you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u124	No, with the questions about Brexit not yet. There are a few more questions about Brexit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u125	We finish this point first, and then the members can interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u126	Yes. How will fishermen be prepared if they fail? If there is no deal on 1 January, then access for fishermen to British waters is over, and that is a threat at the moment. I'm just gonna put it right here. We are, of course, trying to avoid that, but what happens is that there is close contact on all scenarios, and that the European Union is also competent to introduce temporary mitigation measures. Money is reserved within the Multiannual Financial Framework for unforeseen and negative effects of the expiry of the transitional period. Financial instruments are also included, recognising the impact of Brexit on the most affected Member States. That is where the Netherlands belongs, of course, if it were to go wrong because of the large fishing industry. We expect the Commission to come forward shortly with a proposal on how to implement these resources. We are on top of that, of course, but it is now primarily a matter for the Commission to ensure that these mitigating measures are taken. Mr Koopmans asked a question about the level playing field. I very much agree with him that there are important interests at stake, including for Europe as a whole. We really need to ensure that the internal market remains intact. It is okay if there is competition between companies, but you must avoid unfair competition on standards. It's gonna be hard to avoid anything. You can't completely turn England into a rule taker. So that ideal of what is called "dynamic alignment" in the jargon is not going to work. But there is now working according to the doctrine of managing the differences as controlled as possible, of the "managed divergence." We have shown a willingness to compromise and it is also expected from the UK. It is a big point now, in my opinion, that the negotiations are still stuck on. Then the IRS. Here I have to say that since the Tax Administration's execution test there has been no idle work. I now have an answer which, I understand, Mr Blok has already put forward in another debate. In the case of the payroll tax, the system is ready as of 1 January 2021. The income tax wasn't sure yet. At present, the income tax system is also expected to be well organised. As a result, the income tax return is covering and no additional self-reliance is actually required. If it doesn't work with that implementation, which is not expected, then there are good arrangements in taxation to still effect your right. That's not a coulance scheme, it's just how it works in taxation. Up to roughly five years after that, it is possible to change the declaration so that it is correct. If things don't go well, the Tax Administration's customer service will do its utmost to rectify this as soon as possible. But again, it's not the expectation that that's necessary. It is not possible to solve it with one phone call, because, for example, it is not enough to verify the identity of the person concerned. Yes, we stick to our standards when it comes to social security and food safety. From now on, we have focused on firm agreements to ensure such a level playing field, in the interests of citizens and businesses. This is also one of the issues on which agreement has not yet been reached in the negotiations. That is why such great interests are at stake. That is true of the questions about the Brexit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u127	I have a question about reducing the tax on profits. The Prime Minister says that that is a competence of the United Kingdom. I understand that in itself, but the question I would like to ask the Prime Minister is: what has the Cabinet done to prevent this? What action has been taken on it? Have you had any conversations about that? Has it become a condition? Because the Prime Minister says it's undesirable. We'll share that. What's done?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u128	The Chamber is aware of Europe's commitment. It was shared with the Chamber in February and discussed in various debates. It also covered the Ploumen motion to ensure, in general terms, that there is a level playing field and avoid unfair competition for our companies. In doing so, the EU is committed, also at the request of the Netherlands, to ensuring that the rules in force in relation to the tax are guaranteed in the agreement. This also has to do with the so-called non-regression agreements. Part of the EU's talks with the United Kingdom is that the United Kingdom is also retained in the OECD tax directives. But it is not possible to put this as a tough condition in the negotiations, because it is a national competence, even within the European Union. For the Netherlands, too, we set our own rates for the tax on profits.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u129	It would be a good thing if England did not comply with the OECD guidelines. That's the absolute minimum. It is, of course, a question of political and diplomatic pressure, which does not have that farce-over effect, that countries go further and further in reducing the tax on profits, within the Union or later in such a division within the Union. That's the point. The Chamber has called on the Cabinet to prevent this. The Prime Minister is actually saying: it is undesirable, but we are not doing anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u130	It has always been said that this is being introduced as a point to be borne in mind, but that you cannot make this as a hard demand. I'll come to the next chapter. That is all that relates to both the MFF, i.e. the Multiannual Financial Framework, as well as rule of law. Let me start with the rule of law. I believe that what I said in Question Time was also widely supported in the Chamber, except for a few. That is that we do not want to fall below the level of the trilogue outcome. We can now speculate on how to get out. Reopening the trilogue only makes sense if you think you're getting higher, but that seems unlikely. I don't have the impression that anyone is seriously considering that right now. Then there's another option that you ask the Hungarians and Poland what they're so angry about. For example, they seem very angry that this is about accepting quotas on migration. Then you could set out in a European Council conclusion that this rule-of-law instrument is not about quotas on accepting migration. That might be another solution, that you define what it is not, but of course that can only be done if that does not undermine the rule-of-law instrument. I understand, however, that such a route is currently being rejected by both countries. Yeah, and then I don't remember. Soon, indeed, you will come to the issues of A25. I do not really want to speculate about the forms of this. It's really too early for that. I've heard several options in the Chamber. I also understand very well what concerns live there. Of course, I share that with the Chamber. We will, of course, discuss this in detail with the Chamber when it comes to this. I think it is good that it has been said to Hungary and Poland: there is a way around you, if you have to. Of course there is. Moreover, under certain circumstances, Mrs Buitenweg pointed out that this is a route of enhanced cooperation. It is not the case that in all cases Hungary and Poland have to say yes to that. There are also constructions imaginable in which you could do enhanced cooperation outside of them. I also understand all the disadvantages and advantages, especially disadvantages, of intergovernmental agreements, but it does not make much sense for me to take advantage of all the options here. When it comes to this, it is crucial that we stay as close as possible to the July agreements. Moreover, for the Netherlands, the reforms are crucial and, in the context of the reforms, the emergency brake. We're never gonna change a jot; then it's over. Of course, it is also crucial to collect the money. But once again, I do not think it is very useful to speculate on this now. (NL) Mr President, shall I do all the answers on this subject and then all the questions? I hear "fine." The motion on the state complaint procedure in Poland has been adopted, I think. At least we said yes to that. We are working with similar Member States to identify the opportunities and risks of the possible use of the instrument. That is what we are doing now with six Member States. Minister Blok for Foreign Affairs will keep the Chamber informed. In this context, it is good news that on 3 December last the Commission sent Poland an additional notice of formal notice for continuing cases against Polish judges in the disciplinary chamber of the Polish Supreme Court. That is, in fact, an extension of that. I have no indication that the Portuguese Presidency would be in a different position than we do. Our embassy reported today that Prime Minister Costa said this week, and I quote: "The rule of law is not for negotiation. Budapest and Warsaw must decide whether to accept the club's rules or withdraw from membership." He does that with an octave lower voice and in Portuguese. The Polish Government is indeed trying to divert attention from the debate on the rule of law mechanism by threatening the Netherlands with an Article 7 procedure. Article 7 is about a serious violation of the values of the European Union, such as the rule of law, democracy or fundamental rights. It is not intended to address any disagreement in the field of taxation, so we await that further. I agree with Mrs Buitenweg, who asked: what further can you do to support the forces in Hungary and Poland? Moreover, I believe that the instruments agreed within the MFF are best suited for this, such as the new Rights and Values programme, which can include support for civil society organisations under the MFF. Following negotiations, the programme has doubled from 800 million to 1.6 billion. I would like to make a commitment to using that fund for this purpose. Against this background there were also a few questions about the Multiannual Financial Framework itself. Mr Jetten asked me for reflection. I think we've pretty much made it all financially. We have also brought in the conditions of reform, the emergency brake and, in particular, the rule of law. I do believe that it is true that the European Parliament has improved this considerably, but I was pleased that the step was taken towards a link, which was not there at first and never really was, between the reception of funds and the rule of law. By the way, this is not about Article 7. Article 7 is much wider. So here you are talking about the instruments of the rule of law that are needed to check whether you are spending money properly. Soon you will come up with major issues such as the judiciary, the independence of judges and so on. But of course it does not have the width of Article 7 and we all know the disadvantages of the Article 7 procedure. Then the rule of law instrument. It is interesting what the Chamber said, because if that rule of law instrument were adopted by qualified majority and the Multiannual Financial Framework entered into a one-twelfth procedure, so would the MFF. I just checked that out. I am officially assured that this is the case. I thought Mr Omtzig was referring to it or someone else. That's interesting. It does seem to be. Then, of course, the question arises as to why this has not yet happened. That must really put the German Presidency to the vote in Coreper. That is what we are waiting for, but it is more tactical that it does not happen now than that major considerations play a part in it. Then the question was: what is or is not still? That was the demand for the EEA and ESA in Noordwijk. Without new sectoral regulations, major programmes, such as cohesion policy and Horizon, but also ESA and EEA, will not be able to make new commitments. In addition, the programmes financed by the recovery instrument cannot yet start. The Netherlands will also lose its discounts. Moreover, they will be paid retroactively as soon as the MFF is established. However, payments may be made for commitments entered into between 2014 and 2020. This has far-reaching consequences, which also affect ESA and EEA. I have also stressed the importance of linking to reforms. In the direction of Mr Koopmans, I would like to do that again. I very much agree with him. The trilogue on the regulation is progressing. It seems to be heading in the right direction. The main issue now under discussion with Parliament is the governance of the recovery instrument. Where they wanted to weaken this link to reforms by postponing the CSRs for a few years, the Netherlands also said immediately: if that happens, it will be ready immediately. The Netherlands will not then submit the own resources decision for ratification. Everyone in the European Parliament knows that too, and I expect that this will no longer be attempted. Finally, Mr President. Mr Nijboer said that 5.6 billion also for the Netherlands. I very much agree with that, but it is not the case that if we do not submit it until April, we will miss out on money or that we would have received money sooner if we had submitted it earlier. So what we want is to present a firm and ambitious plan. This means that we also want to give formation a chance, so that the new cabinet can take a final decision on it and have the room to choose which additional reforms and investments will be included in the national plan. With that, the Netherlands will not lose any money. It is also not the case that we will get money later, because the window closes on 30 April next year and the elections are mid-March. My suggestion, then, as the outgoing Prime Minister to the formation club by that time would be to do so as a matter of priority. Then, of course, the outgoing cabinet will make it easier for decisions from the formation to be quickly deposited with the Chamber. We will have to help in that, of course, but it is more often in formation that the outgoing cabinet has a role in that. Mr. Chairman. This in response to all questions about both MFK and rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u131	I will go first to Mrs Buitenweg and then to Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u132	It's gonna be fast in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u133	Depends.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u134	I do not want to delay very much, but I would like to come back to the subject of this intergovernmental road versus the road of enhanced cooperation. The Prime Minister says this is not the issue right now, and I understand that. At the same time, I do like to understand when this is on the agenda, because I can also think that the Netherlands might see something in it because the European Commission will not lend money on the market, while I would like to stress the danger that the European Parliament is out of play and that there will be less control over the money. In short, in order to prevent the Prime Minister from finding that intergovernmental route very attractive, I would like to understand at what point in time one of these routes is being pre-sorted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u135	I don't know; we really don't know. The Commission is, of course, committed to this. I was very pleased with the signal she sent out: if this continues, we are prepared to make a proposal at 25 or at 24. We are not quite sure what Slovenia is doing. We hope they will continue to participate. Moreover, I hope that we will be able to include in this week's European Council conclusions a few sentences that do not prejudice the trilogue outcome, which Poland and Hungary say: oh, but then we still agree. That's the miracle I always hope for. If that is not possible, I expect the Commission to come up with technical options soon after this European Council, which will go up to 25. We will discuss this with Parliament on every occasion. For me, it is crucial to reform, emergency brake and all that sort of thing, but also, of course, to ensure maximum democratic control. But there are so many variants conceivable, also intergovernmental, with parliamentary control, and also enhanced cooperation. I understand from lawyers that there are still forms conceivable under certain technical conditions, which could still be done even though Hungary and Poland are not in favour of them. Normally, everyone else will have to agree to use the Union instruments for enhanced cooperation, but that does not always seem to be necessary. Well, then we are now fist deep in the European treaties where I do not remember. So we just have to look at that, but that's all things we're going to discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u136	Can I understand the order of priorities so that there is one agreement with all 27 Member States under the conditions laid down by the rule of law mechanism...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u137	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u138	...and on two the enhanced cooperation? So it does not have the Prime Minister's first or second preference to go to an intergovernmental treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u139	My tendency would be to say yes to what Mrs Buitenweg says...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u140	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u141	... but that's my humility, because I'm keeping a small opening, because I want to figure out exactly what the advantages and disadvantages of the different routes are. I will therefore make that clear to the Chamber, whether Hoekstra or Blok or anyone else, but at least the Cabinet. So now my first feeling would be that Mrs Buitenweg indicates the right prioritisation, but I would like to keep a little room to say at some point: something turns out to have been found and that sounds like intergovernmental, but it does everything we wanted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u142	I hear the Prime Minister saying some very interesting things about the rule of law mechanism. He says that he now realizes that this mechanism was not at all dependent on a unanimous outcome in the European Union, but that there was also another route to make this work. We have discussed this before in the Chamber in debates, and we have had the impression from the government that there were deep strategic considerations behind bringing it into the MFF negotiations and putting it into the endgame. That would be the route to realize this. Do I actually hear the Prime Minister say that the quarter has fallen; we are going to see if we can do our best with the German Presidency to get this discussed in a separate vote? In fact, then, we can simply adopt this mechanism with each other in the European Union. We do not need Poland and Hungary for that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u143	No, but the rule of law mechanism is QMV; we have never had a misunderstanding about that. But, of course, politics is not. Because if Poland and the Hungarians then block unanimity on the own resources decision in Coreper or wherever it happens, or do not submit it to their national parliaments for ratification, then you still actually have unanimity on the rule of law mechanism. But there may be a reason to say: it is stalling and we are going to the one-twelve budget. Then it will be very attractive to have the rule of law mechanism in place. But it's not up to me. It is up to the German Presidency to put that to the vote at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u144	But then I'll look for what the Dutch government's commitment will be, because the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u145	In a mood as soon as possible. As far as I am concerned, we shall vote as soon as possible. No doubt about it. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u146	Very good. That seems to me to be excellent, but that means, as far as I am concerned, if I understand these words correctly, that it can also be put to the vote separately and is not dependent on the decision. I would like to look at what is a new path that the Prime Minister is going to follow now, because I do not have that in mind now. He gives the impression in the debate that he is going to take a new turn, but I am looking for what he is now committing to the Chamber. What will his commitment be to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u147	We don't have a bet on that. It's not up to us. But if Germany were to ask me what I think, we would find: put to the vote as soon as possible and adopt the rule of law mechanism with QMV. I'm just gonna find where we're missing each other right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u148	Then we miss each other here, because the Prime Minister says 'I am not about it; the German Presidency is about it', but of course the Prime Minister is about his own commitment and the appeal he makes to the German Presidency.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u149	And that is: put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u150	Well, that seems clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u151	Absolutely. Yes. No, no doubt about it. We agree on that. Put to the vote as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u152	So what would the Prime Minister prefer to put to the vote as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u153	Well, I am not, but the German Presidency must ultimately decide whether it will put the rule of law mechanism, i.e. the outcome of the trialogue, to the vote of the ambassadors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u154	Yes. What if Germany doesn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u155	Then I should ask for the second term if we still have any possibility of enforcing it. I just don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u156	Otherwise, it is not a commitment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u157	I do not know whether the Netherlands has an opportunity to force the Presidency to put something to the vote at the ambassadors' meeting or at a Council meeting. I should find out. I just don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u158	The Prime Minister will return to that in second term, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u159	Well, I think this is kind of weird. This summer, the Chamber was not satisfied with what had happened at that long summit on the multiannual budget and the Restoration Fund: a higher budget, no rule of law principles. We hope that the European Parliament will negotiate that back, we heard. Now there is something, and now the Prime Minister says: I am dependent on the German Presidency or putting it to the vote. This was one of our terms. So if Germany doesn't put it to the vote, then what?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u160	I don't know. I do not know if we have the technical means to enforce that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u161	But then the Netherlands does not agree with the multiannual budget and the Recovery Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u162	No, of course not. But no one, right? I'm sorry, but I think we're convincing each other about something we're convinced of. For the Netherlands, the rule of law mechanism is a sine qua non for voting on an own resources decision here in the Chamber. That is also acceptable, unanimity in Brussels, with a decision on own resources. There's no discussion about that. The question is whether, now that that trilogue outcome is there and can be adopted with QMV, you can force the Netherlands to put it to the vote if Germany does not put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u163	I think it is possible because you say: we do not agree with the own resources decision if that does not happen. But what I object to is that it is now only about the own resources decision and the rule of law principle. The Court has been clear about the fact that it covers the entire seven-year multiannual budget and the Recovery Fund. That narrowing down to the own resources decision and making the effort now is also sending us into the woods a little bit. That is why I asked what is ahead and what is the position of the Netherlands. There are at least four or five motions here that say that the rule of law is a precondition for money from the new Multiannual Financial Framework. Is this Prime Minister going to carry out those motions or is he going to send us back into the woods with some kind of subtlety?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u164	Mrs Leijten, I am sorry, but I think we agree that in order to ratify an own resources decision and to have a multiannual budget and to have a recovery fund, it is all necessary for the Union to agree to this rule of law mechanism. I think we all agree on that. But you asked me if you could force the vote on the rule of law mechanism. I said: I simply do not know; I have to find out and I will come back to that in the second term. I think we're really on the same page here. I do not know where the suspicion is that I would want anything other than Mrs Leijten. We have always said that the trilogue between Parliament, the Commission and the Council is the lower limit we do not fall under. So that's gotta be him. Without that rule of law mechanism, we cannot go on. This can possibly be enforced with QMV. But then the Hungarians and the Poles are expected to refuse to accept the MFF. This is, of course, also done by means of the transmission belt of the own resources decision, because that is a unanimous decision. This must also be submitted to the national parliaments. If they do not ratify, then that own resources decision is not there and so you have no RRF and no MFF. That's just a fact. There is therefore a link in all respects: MFF, RRF, own resources decision and rule of law mechanism. That's all linked. I can't say it any clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u165	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u166	But now Poland and Hungary are blocking. And Germany wants to get out. That is their task for their temporary Presidency. Is the Prime Minister really so clear that he says that we are not going to agree to anything if that negotiated agreement is better than his own straight back, I say... isn't that going to be affected? Not a millimeter?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u167	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u168	So the Netherlands says: then there will be an emergency budget per twelfth of a month and then we want to regulate that state of law quickly. That is the situation and there is no deviation from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u169	Not at all. Once again, this one-twelve budget goes into effect. One question I cannot answer because it is technical and because I have to find out is whether you can then force Germany to put the rule of law mechanism to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u170	You'll get back to that. Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u171	I don't know that, and that's what I need to find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u172	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u173	I was done, at least with this part. Then we'll go to Turkey, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, the moment has come when this T-junction, which was outlined two European summits ago, is gradually coming, given the ongoing activities of the Turks in Cyprus, but certainly also towards Greece. That means that I expect that this summit will look at listings, especially towards Turks involved in Cyprus. I assume and suspect that there will also be work on a Commission tasking for further action in the European Council later. This is, moreover, always accompanied by the commitment of the whole Union, in my view, to see whether dialogue can de-escalate the issue. The fact is, of course, that the situation is serious and has also deteriorated since that European summit of some time ago. Then there is the question of Turkey's accession, in the direction of Mr Koopmans. There is, of course, no reason to talk about it now. Those negotiations are, of course, still in progress. It is true that the Netherlands has already called for a halt to the negotiations. As you know, there was no support for this within the Council. The Omtzigt/Koopmans motion of June 2019 has been carried out. A large number of Member States fear that the complete loss of the EU perspective will undermine moderate forces in Turkey. That is why it was not possible to reach an agreement, but the Chamber is aware of that, I think. I agree with Mr Omtzigt that renewed provocations from Turkey towards France are disappointing. That is why I have great concerns about the rule of law and human rights in Turkey. We raise these issues both bilaterally and multilaterally. As far as we are concerned, the call for a boycott of France is unacceptable. The Commission has also indicated this to the Turks. I support that message, of course, in full solidarity with France. The Council also expressed its solidarity with Cyprus and Greece on several occasions. We will certainly do that again this week. I have already said that I can imagine that these listings will be decided this week. Then yesterday my colleague, Minister Blok, informed you about the progress on the Omtzigt motion on Nagorno-Karabakh. I thought it was Ommzigt's. It was a question from Mr Omtzigt. This was advocated both within the European Union and within the OSCE. We are committed to this. We underline the importance of truth finding and accountability on all points mentioned by the motion; cluster munitions, phosphorus, foreign fighters and any war crimes. There are no guarantees to give or and when this will work. This won't be from today to tomorrow either. I do not know exactly what the situation is against the foreman of the PVV, Geert Wilders. This has been brought to the Turks at all levels. It has been made absolutely clear that freedom of expression, especially that of parliamentarians, is of the utmost importance here in the Netherlands, that we do not think that this declaration is acceptable and that it is contrary to all Dutch views on freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u174	Mr. Emiel van Dijk. You were done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u175	This was Turkey. Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u176	Mr. Emiel van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u177	My question was, of course, whether the Prime Minister is prepared to do so at the European summit, with all those countries that have expressed their support for Greece and Cyprus... I ask him to do the same for a Member of Parliament who has lost his freedom here for almost 16 years and is further restricted by this kind of Turkish intimidation by means of a report. Is the Prime Minister prepared to raise this issue at the European Council and to reject this declaration from Turkey against Mr Wilders with his European colleagues?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u178	I don't think that makes any sense right now. I do not think that is going to work at this European Council, but we are prepared, even in the coming months, to consider every step that is necessary and which we consider appropriate, to bring closer to the objective of not making that declaration, or to withdraw it if it has taken place. My assessment is that this is not sensible at this European Council, because contacts have been established with the Turks and we have said that we do not agree with it. So I don't think that's wise right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u179	Of course, it's on the agenda. Why is it not involved in this whole package of measures and all the grievances about boycotting French products, human rights violations, violating the national waters of Greece and Cyprus and so on? The Minister is always such a big supporter of one package. That's an excellent opportunity, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u180	You have to assess every time what maximum pressure is put and where that is feasible. I do not expect this European Council to be the best opportunity. This does not make it impossible for this type of route to be followed in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u181	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u182	Mr. Chairman. Then climate. Yes, I will make every effort to reach an agreement. As far as we are concerned, this is separate from the commitment to the Multiannual Financial Framework. It looks at what else you can do towards Eastern Europe to help them in the transition, but that is actually outside the MFF. So strictly speaking, it is completely separate from the rule-of-law discussion, the MFF discussion, the RRF discussion, etc. But politically, there's a risk that things will be linked. When that happens, everything just gets stuck. Then both the Multiannual Financial Framework and the RRF, that emergency fund, are stalled. Brexit is still special and this. We try to compartmentalize that, but politics is complicated. It is true, Mrs Buitenweg, that we would like it to be a reduction in emissions, but the Commission proposal is based on a net target. That is a few percent below the 55% that the Netherlands wants, that's right. There is really not enough support at the moment to change that. I will commit myself to and also stick to an emission reduction target, but I also want to prevent the agreement from coming through; I say this honestly. In the end, I do not want to block the 55% agreement on this point, but I will do my best to do so. Then there is Mr Omtzigt's question. So he supports that goal. In an impact assessment, the Commission makes it clear that 55% is feasible and affordable at EU level by 2030. It will be quite a job to agree on this, but I do not see any support for more than 55%. I do not know whether Mr Omtzigt would argue that it should be more than 55%. I may have misunderstood that, but the official suggestion for the answer says: I do not see support for more than 55%; does he want it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u183	No, I'd like you to finish this first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u184	Okay, sorry. Finally, Mr Bishop, who said: you don't really know what it means for the Netherlands yet. I believe that, on the basis of all the Commission's estimates, 55% is the most cost-effective path towards climate neutrality by 2050 by 2030. If you do less now, it'll cost you more in the end. It is also necessary to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. The Commission shows that this is feasible for the EU as a whole. In the middle of next year, the proposals for how precise and what the distribution is between the economic sectors will be. We will examine these proposals critically and test them according to our principles of cost-effectiveness, based on CO reduction and affordability. A study group has also been set up under the leadership of the well-known Laura of Spirit to examine the possible consequences of an increase in the objective and to take stock of the additional measures to this end. Perhaps another response to Mrs Leijten's question on the climate: cost effectiveness means that we want to look at the measures that produce the most CO reduction for the least money. We are talking about business as well as citizens. Different measures are used to distribute costs and burdens and place them as far as possible with those who can carry them, through focus on source policy, ETS, focus on energy bill, SDE+, financial benefits for home owners, clean cars, etc., etc. That's in response to all the questions about climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u185	Mr Omtzigt, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u186	I have one comment. The limité documents said: at least 55%. That's where my question came in. We'll stick to 55%, won't we? Get the hell out of here. So that is not because I myself think that this would not be ambitious enough, because it will be quite a tour. I'm still waiting for an answer on the previous piece. Does the one-twelve budgets mean that EEA and ESA can continue to function in the Netherlands? And has Portugal, behind those closed doors, either advocated the rule of law mechanism or not? Portugal is important. Just now, Germany was important because it is President, but Portugal is President from 1 January. If Portugal does not advocate the rule of law, it must be completed by 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u187	With regard to EEA and ESA, I will double-check whether my answer from just now also means that they will have financial problems if it becomes a twelfth. So I shall come back to that in the second term. As far as Portugal is concerned, I have said that the Prime Minister has spoken sensiblely, but I think Mr Omtzigt is asking: did he also explicitly advocate the mechanism? I don't know now, so I'll check that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u188	That's good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u189	Then I come to the few questions about COVID-19. About the vacation. As you know, the advice in the Netherlands is not to travel to neighbouring countries or even abroad, at least until mid-January. There is therefore also a negative travel advice for Switzerland, because we say: do not go abroad. Switzerland can of course decide to finally open ski slopes. We can't forbid that. This has also been the subject of concern within the European Union. Austria has decided not to do it, like a number of other countries: France, Italy. But Switzerland does. Then there's the question of compulsory licences. Force licences only come into view if the patent holder is not willing to grant the licence voluntarily under reasonable conditions, does not help other instruments, is proportionate towards the patent holder, and can actually lead to the availability of the vaccine. We do not have the indication that such a situation exists. Then there was the question of cooperation. Mr Koopmans asked what cooperation is foreseen. Work is under way on mutual recognition of testing and improving cross-border source and contact research. I am thinking of the Dutch app that communicates with apps from other Member States. It remains complicated to then agree on the quarantine policy. We are also trying to work together in this area. The joint procurement of vaccines is now taking place. In proportion to the population, the Netherlands receives just below 4% of European procurement. Agreements have also been made to map the spread of the virus in Europe together and then to see what Member States are doing and what they can learn from each other. The mix of measures varies from one Member State to another, but most of the measures are very close in the different countries, especially if you compare the Netherlands, for example, with Germany. We'll be very similar. We are in favour of strengthening European cooperation on cross-border health threats, but within the limits of the current division of competence in the Convention. That is also how we will assess proposals. We shall do so on that basis. That is also in line with the Leijten/Van der Graaf motion. That motion is our anchor and guideline for assessing such proposals. We will thoroughly assess and deal with proposals for strengthening cooperation with a view to a future health crisis. Your Room has placed a treatment reservation on part of the package. We will inform the Chamber in mid-January via the BNC-fiche, but the Leijten/Van der Graaf motion is therefore leading. So much for my comments on COOVID-19.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u190	Shortly, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u191	Then it is very strange that the draft conclusions already state that the European Council is delighted that proposals for a European Health Union are being drawn up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u192	I honestly haven't seen that conclusion yet. You're farther than I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u193	Yes, but there is a signature on behalf of the Netherlands. There's just a motion on that, so we just can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u194	Wait a minute. It's just a question of how we interpret that. It is not the case that the motion says nothing must happen. The motion asks that, if you work together in these areas, that happens within the existing divisions of competence. That's what's leading us. They will have been reviewed, but I have not yet had a chance to look at these draft conclusions. I may come up with a proposal to change them. It may also be that I agree with it, but with an interpretation: it means that I make all reservations, undoubtedly with many others, with regard to the further elaboration. It happens all the time. They are political conclusions at the European Council, not legal ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u195	The Capital Markets Union, the Defence Union, you name it all. As soon as it's called that, we know what's going to happen: more direction, more unity of markets. It says: making full use of the potential of health data. There's an accepted chamber motion. There's a definite point. And they're in conflict with each other. The Prime Minister says 'I haven't seen it yet and perhaps I'll make a reservation', but he has to make a reservation. Take it out of the conclusions, because that is the position of the Dutch Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u196	From the conclusions as you read them, I'm afraid. I haven't seen them yet, and I'd like to take a closer look at them. It is now quoted from pieces from which that is not really possible, but I am not about that. I think the motion is clear. What we are going to do there must all be done within the limits of the current division of powers in the Treaty. It's not just the Netherlands that says that, it's a lot of countries that think so. I am not talking about that concept conclusion, Mrs Leijten. And you're not supposed to read them at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u197	Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u198	I wonder what I've been doing here for the past three hours. If the Prime Minister goes to a meeting on which draft conclusions he signs on issues of 1,100 billion and the Prime Minister says here "I haven't seen them yet and you can't quote them', what exactly are we having a debate about? I think the concept conclusion is about the central document we should be talking about here today, or am I missing something?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u199	No, we are talking here about the Dutch commitment to the European Council. The draft conclusions made by the President of the European Council are an instrument for steering the debate. They will then be adjusted in every possible way at the European Council. So I will always make proposals on a number of points to adapt draft conclusions, in line with what we have discussed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u200	I am going to take this back in the Committee on European Affairs, because this is exactly why I, together with Mrs Leijten, am calling for this type of document to be made public. It's gonna be real. We have no illusions: with 27 countries there are sometimes phrases in it that you didn't come up with yourself. None of that is exciting at all. That's how it works. But if we can't talk about the conclusions and pretend they're not there, then we're not in the middle of a very democratic process here. I believe that, in a democratic process, a clear proposal should simply be on the table. We all have to understand what the proposal means, and at the end of the day you will vote on it. Even if you do it with 76 and today, with the absent MP, with 75 members, but then you're either in favour or you're against it. But here we look like... Well, we're going to take it again, but if we can't quote the draft conclusions and we can't assume that we're all reading it, then we're having a debate on newspaper articles. We do that all the time here, but that's not desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u201	Well, that's just not true. We are having a debate here on the annotated agenda that the government is sending to the Chamber. That is exactly what our commitment is to all the major issues at the European Council. Against the background of the shared insights we are developing here, the annotated agenda with all the input of the Chamber, through motions and commitments etc.... That is what I am going to do at the European Council. The draft conclusions are an instrument of the President of the European Council to structure the debate. They will be adapted in a variety of respects at the European Council meeting. Well, Mrs Leijten reads one conclusion that I say you can read in any way I can when I hear it like that. I don't know if that's the latest version of the conclusions either. It may lead me to say at the European Council that it needs to be adapted. If I say here that it must all be within the limits of the present division of powers in the Treaty, Mrs Leijten's motion and Mrs Van der Graaf's...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u202	But that's just been discussed. I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u203	But it may also be that I say: I can live with it, but know that when those proposals come, we will look at it in that way. I come to Mr. Omtzigt and the Magnitsky Act. I think it is very nice that he also mentions Stef Blok, who has indeed worked the snot in front of his eyes, inspired by Mr Omtzigt, in order to achieve this. It is true that we would very much have liked to include corruption in the sanction regime, but there was insufficient support for that. A large majority of EU Member States did not want that. Fortunately, it is now possible to put people on the list who support human rights violations financially or otherwise, so that also leaves room to put corrupt persons on the list under conditions. But since it was just adopted yesterday, we now have an instrument for three years. The next step is to come up with proposals for the first listings. I think we should focus on that now. So I don't think it's wise to change it again. Moreover, it is not explicitly excluded that persons with an EU passport should be included under the human rights sanctions regime, which was a second point by Mr Omtzigt. I would, however, like to make the point that sanctions are usually not the right instrument for people within the EU's jurisdiction, because that often makes criminal prosecution a more effective instrument. But, of course, it may be that sometimes it is appropriate. In itself, I understand, that is not excluded, at least not explicitly. Finally, on the issue of the Magnitsky Act: the issue of the Lukashenko regime. In response to electoral fraud and violence, the EU has already placed 55 people on the White Russia penalty list. There is now agreement on a new third package. Hopefully this will be formally discussed before the end of the year. I would suggest that we conclude this now, and then see how we can use the Magnitsky regime for this. Moreover, there is, of course, now a separate regime of sanctions in Belarus. From that point of view, the human rights sanctions regime might be less obvious, but it may well be different if we weigh everything. Mr. Chairman. Then there's terrorism. We support the Council conclusions on the European Union Police Partnership. These will be discussed in the JHA Council on 14 December. They are likely to be adopted in writing. The aim is to strengthen Schengen and ensure the security of our citizens. This requires good and effective cooperation between border guards, law enforcement authorities, third countries and private parties. This conclusion focuses on concrete steps to strengthen this cooperation, including by improving the implementation of existing instruments, the creation of new ICT systems and interoperability between those systems. The important role of Europol and other agencies such as Frontex and Eurojust in their support to the Member States is underlined. The aim is to strengthen Schengen and to protect internal security, I say to Mr Bishop. As far as the Netherlands is concerned, this starts with stronger border surveillance. The Commission's proposal for mandatory screening and border procedures is an important element in this. The cabinet's commitment is aimed at increasing attention to the implementation and enforcement of the agreements made. Serious shortcomings in the area of Schengen should therefore be addressed, if necessary with the temporary introduction of internal border controls in the Member States. That's what we've said before. Finally, on this point. The Commission is coming up with a new counter-terrorism agenda in the very short term. The planning is scheduled for December 9th. Following the recent attacks, the publication has been brought forward. In doing so, we will be committed to the pursuit of counterterrorism. The whole agenda on that point and the government's juice of the new agenda are shared with the Chamber by the usual route. I will therefore respond to the idea put forward by Mr Bishop about Islamism and the fight against terror. We'll get that involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u204	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u205	Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few loose questions. I had the question about Moria. The Secretary of State for JenV informed the Chamber on 24 November that we expect the first arrival before Christmas. Everything is being done, also in relation to the Voordewind motion, to fill in the offer as soon as possible. There must, of course, be careful selection, especially in the interests of this group. This is being worked very hard together with all Greek partners. Then the Abraham chords. The European Union has welcomed this. This broadens the recognition of Israel in the Arab region, I say to Mr Bishop. It also contributes to regional stability and prosperity. It also strengthens the security of Israel and the region and offers opportunities for rapprochement between Israel and the Palestinians. Minister Blok for Foreign Affairs congratulated the Foreign Minister of Israel and the Foreign Minister of the United Arab Emirates, welcomed the signing of the agreements with the UAE and Bahrain, and also welcomed the agreement with Sudan. Mind if I report that last one, too? In doing so, he urged his Israeli colleague to make the suspension of annexation of parts of the West Bank final. Then there is the suggestion that the ECB should cancel the Italian debt. The answers to the written questions on that point by Mr Slootweg of the CDA will soon be sent to the Chamber by the Minister of Finance, at least for the Christmas holidays. Debt forgiveness by the ECB is prohibited under the EU Treaties. This was also clearly expressed by the ECB itself, by Lagarde, by De Guindos. It is not on the agenda, but once again, Mr Slootweg's questions will be answered, so I say to Mr Omtzigt. The summit that was planned, without me, but with the chefs in Brussels and the African Union, was cancelled, we heard just when I was preparing this. I don't know why, but that VTC video conference was canceled. I think that Mr Koopmans has said a few commendable things about this. Respect for the rule of law is indeed one of the essential elements of an agreement, together with democracy and human rights. This is, of course, also part of an equal partnership that the European Union and Africa are pursuing. I have also, of course, taken note of Mr Koopmans' other points. Finally, on Iran. The Netherlands fully supports the agreement with Iran on the nuclear programme. This also applies to the whole of the European Union. In doing so, we call on Iran to comply fully with all its commitments under that agreement. There are serious concerns about this, but also wider about the situation in Iran, for example. There are concerns about the human rights situation, the role in the region and, of course, the ballistic missile programme. We continue to draw attention to this, of course also in the context of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u206	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u207	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank the Prime Minister very much. I listened carefully to what he said about the rule of law and his priorities. Firstly, the priority is to get out, but with the minimum we have mentioned, namely the rule of law mechanism. If that is not the case, it is not preferable to have an intergovernmental agreement, but it does not rule that out 100%. He just said you don't have a motion. No, but I actually made a motion for this. But I have listened carefully and take the words of the Prime Minister as follows. His preference is explicitly enhanced cooperation with the involvement of the European Parliament and other monitoring mechanisms. If there is involvement in another way that is better for democratic accountability and control, he does not exclude it 100%, but he does not prefer it. That's why I didn't file a motion. Thank you also for making it clear that there will be an agreement for the climate. It would be incredibly embarrassing if we didn't succeed, especially now that there is another president in the United States who offers opportunities. We, as Europe, cannot, of course, be left behind. That brings me to one last point I want to make, about the relationship between the EU and the United States. That point has not yet been addressed. In the pieces I read a lot of relief, such as: we can move forward again with a future between the EU and the US. I want to ask what that means for the long-term trends. I do not expect them to change so substantially. It remains a change of focus, also from the United States, towards Asia. I hope that means, at least, that I do not ask the Prime Minister, for example, that we are thinking about strategic autonomy, about changing our own focus on Africa and so on, but of course we need to strengthen our cooperation with the US. I would like some clarification on what it means for strategic autonomy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u208	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I now give the floor to Mr Emiel van Dijk on behalf of the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is, of course, nice that the Prime Minister, on behalf of the Dutch Government, has indicated to the Turks at various levels that Mr Erdogan's declaration and the intimidation that this is about against my party leader Geert Wilders cannot be made. It is disappointing, however, that the Prime Minister does not go through and does not make this clear again at European level, because it is probably the only thing that makes the Turks listen. That is where we have a motion, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that it is unacceptable for the President of Turkey to try to restrict freedom of expression in the Netherlands by pressing charges against a Dutch parliamentarians;]] [[considers that such a declaration can also have far-reaching consequences and affects the freedom of movement of elected representatives and thereby effectively hinders them from doing their work in freedom;]] [[calls on the government to make a strong statement at the forthcoming European summit against this last provocation by Erdogan, so that this declaration is dropped,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Emiel van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1627]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u210	That was my contribution, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u211	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u212	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the draft conclusions for the European Council of 10 and 11 December 2020 discuss the preparation of proposals for a European Health Union;]] [[Whereas, above all, health is and should remain a national competence, as previously stated by the Chamber on 30 September 2020 (21501-20, No. 1600);]] [[Calls on the Government not to agree to point 6 of the draft conclusions for the European Council of 10 and 11 December 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that Hungary and Poland have vetoed the outcome of negotiations for the Multiannual Financial Framework and the Recovery Fund in relation to the conditionality surrounding the rule of law;]] [[having noted that the Court has repeatedly stated that conditions should be laid down for receiving EU funds (MFF and Restoration Fund) on the principles of the rule of law, i.e. the motions:]] [[Van der Graaf c.s. of 18 February 2020 (21501-20, No. 1515);]] [[Sjoerdsma/Van der Graaf of 9 September 2020 (21501-20, nr. 1584);]] [[Jetten/Van Ojik of 29 June 2020 (35403, No. 4);]] [[From Ojik/Jetten of 29 June 2020 (35403, No. 5);]] [[calls on the Government not to accept in any way a proposal that undermines the outcome of the negotiations on the rule of law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1628]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1629]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u213	Mr. Chairman. It's December 9th already, so I won't take too long. Two more points. At the point of Brexit, the race to the bottom and corporate tax, I found the Prime Minister's answers rather weak. If you really want to do something about that, you should take a little attitude. Then it's hard to say: countries are sovereign and we're not doing anything about it. Yeah, it never changes. So I'm gonna call for a firmer approach. The second point was the recovery fund, the 5.6 billion. It was clear to me that this money will remain available to the Netherlands; it will not run away. The Prime Minister also said: it doesn't matter for the spending rhythm either, and it doesn't really matter whether we decide now or later. I should, of course, be glad to have our nine seats waiting for the elections, because hopefully we will have more seats and more influence, but I would ask the Prime Minister to go into this a little more clearly. Because if you know now that you're putting it in sustainability and renovation and insulation programs, then builders know what they're up to, don't they? Wouldn't you say that would help already? Is it really not the case that it will lead to more investment, now that unemployment is rising in the construction sector, if the cabinet would now clarify what these arrangements look like? What's the deal with that, exactly? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u214	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u215	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much and thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I said it in the first term: this is a crucial summit, because we need to establish the European Union's multi-annual budget there, so that we can live up to the ambitions for climate, security and better migration flows in the coming years. It is also an important summit because of the Restoration Fund, so that we can support heavily affected economies in the south of Europe, also in the interests of the Dutch trade economy. And it is an important summit because of the rule of law mechanism, because the Union is not only a Union where we can make money, but also a Union of values. If Member States put the ax into the democratic rule of law, it affects us all and we must stand up for it. I welcome the Prime Minister's response. That is a re-affirmation of what we have just exchanged in Question Time, namely that the rule of law mechanism as it stands is really the lower limit for the Netherlands, including in the talks and negotiations that are to take place in the coming days. I think that the Chamber has almost completely backed that up again today. I would therefore like to wish the Prime Minister every success in the discussions over the next few days and will support a number of motions tabled by colleagues on this matter. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u216	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u217	Thank you, Madam President. Thanks to the Prime Minister. The Christian Union wholeheartedly supports the Prime Minister when he says that I am holding my back when it comes to the rule of law mechanism and I am going to call on the German Presidency to put that mechanism and regulation to the vote in advance, so that we have settled this with each other in advance. I also wish him a great deal of wisdom at this summit. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions on the basis of the first-term debate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that there is an urgent need for a final settlement of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, ensuring lasting security for the population concerned and a process leading to peace and a status for Nagorno-Karabakh protecting the area;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts to this end in the OSCE Minsk Group,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van der Graaf, Voordewind, Omtzigt and Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1630]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u218	I would like to point out that I am referring to the people who are still living there, but also to those who have already left this area under very terrible conditions. Mr. Chairman. The second motion concerns Turkey. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an appropriate response by the European Union to Turkey's unilateral and illegal actions towards Greece and Cyprus cannot be delayed, as this would strengthen the Turkish Government's conviction that it can continue such illegal activities towards Greece and Cyprus;]] [[calls on the government at the European Council to press for effective and targeted sanctions to be imposed on Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Leijten, Mr Bishop and Mr Koopmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1631]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u219	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u220	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u221	Mr. Chairman. If you try to understand the Council's Rules of Procedure, it is quite difficult. So I'm very curious. I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u222	I've never read it before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u223	I have read the piece once, I tell the Prime Minister, about the public access to documents. Once upon a time, Minister Timmermans allowed something to happen that we all regret a little. This can only be reversed by unanimity. Oh, Hanja Maij-Weggen was involved there too, says GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u224	Look.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u225	I wouldn't believe that. I'm not gonna argue with that today. Mr. Chairman. This will be a very interesting Council for the future of the European Union. Now these gentlemen and ladies like to always make it exciting until the last moment, but they are now really in the injury period on the file Brexit and on the file MFK, the rule of law and the corona fund. If we don't get out, we'll have a real problem. I heard the answers. I would like to wait and see if it is indeed an EU-only treaty for the Brexit. If that is not the case, then I really expect parliamentary involvement to be properly designed. I'll wait for the answers in the second term, and I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the efforts of the Dutch Government have led to European Magnitsky legislation;]] [[calls on the Government to seek advice on how this legislation can also apply to serious corruption and how it can also apply to people with an EU passport,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1632]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u226	For example, it can be an advice to the AIV to see how we... That doesn't have to be done tomorrow, I say. That's very smooth for me to do. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Prime Minister referred to the rule of law as the absolute lower limit;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that there is no prejudice to the rule of law mechanism, for example by not allowing it to apply to certain expenditure in the corona fund or the regular budget, or by not allowing certain categories of violations of the rule of law to apply, or by agreeing to a legally binding deposit sheet, and if the Polish and Hungarian Governments do not show any movement at all, to adopt the rule of law mechanism definitively in the Council,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Jetten and Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1633]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u227	If you have a new instrument, you have to use it. There are two sets of sanctions in Belarus, but I think the Magnitsky sanctions should simply be used, especially with the constant things we see there. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the political repression in Belarus is still increasing;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[set up EU or similar-minded countries monitoring in prisons and in lawsuits against demonstrators;]] [[make proposals to bring those of the Lukashenko regime who have committed serious human rights violations under the new Magnitsky sanctions;]] [[inform the Chamber within one month,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Jetten and Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1634]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u228	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. Then we'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u229	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u230	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Buitenweg referred to strategic autonomy, a question of the Biden government. We see many points of departure in this cooperation. At the same time, we believe that there will also be a great deal of continuity from his new government with regard to China and Russia policy. He did say that he wanted to work more closely with Europe on these issues. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, At the same time, it is very important for Europe to continue working on our own position and to be able to defend our own interests. Of course always in cooperation, if possible, with partners, the United Kingdom, America, others, but also if necessary alone. It is not, therefore, because there is now an American government, that we suddenly no longer have our own interests. So that strategic autonomy, that Europe is a player and not a playing field, remains important. Towards Mr Nijboer: I really think this is better. We're not gonna miss any money. We don't miss a chance. The plan will get better. You can also include elements of a new coalition agreement. So my feeling is that we can afford that luxury and get more quality with it. Mr Omtzigt spoke about the Portuguese Presidency. I've been checking it out for a while. What we know is that the Portuguese Foreign Minister recently said that Portugal has always been in favour of a link between the state of law and the MFF. So we were able to find that statement. I had already mentioned that our embassy today reported that Prime Minister Costa said that the rule of law is not for negotiation and that Budapest and Warsaw must decide whether to accept the club's rules or withdraw from membership. That was not yet a direct link to the rule-of-law instrument, but they were firm words. I think the Foreign Minister has said some good things about that too. Then there's EMA and ESA in Noordwijk. So there can be no new commitments if there is a one-twelve budget. The exact implications for ESA and EEA............................................................................................................................................................... If that situation threatens to arise, we will immediately inform the Chamber. Then the Netherlands can force a vote on the rule-of-law mechanism. First of all, politically, I do not think that we should get in the way of the German Presidency. They're trying to make a total package. The end result is paramount here. We did a little legal check. Any member of the Council will be able to ask for a vote in this way. There must be a simple majority to support that request. As you know, the rule-of-law mechanism can now be put to the vote. We're not gonna force that against the Germans right now. I told you, we're not gonna get in the way of the German Presidency. But it does mean that, if there is not enough progress, we have this option. Again, it is primarily up to Germany. I'm getting to the motions. I'll start with the motion in part No. 1627 by Mr Van Dijk. Again, I stand for freedom of speech. We have also addressed this bilaterally. This isn't the time. My suggestion is that he hold the motion until the moment comes. If he's not gonna keep her, I really need to dissuade her, because she's not gonna be viable right now. So: arrest or dissuade. The motion in part No. 1628. It is complicated, however, that we are now seeing draft conclusions coming back in motions which should not be quoted at all. So I think it goes a long way, but it's a matter for the Chamber itself. I would have liked to have said that, although I fully agree with the Chamber that these documents should simply be public. But as long as we don't, I also think we should stick to the rules. What I am going to do at the European Council is simply to have the debate first. That's the way it is. I never start with the conclusion. I'll start the debate. The debate is that we are looking at the matter on the basis of the Leijten/Van der Graaf motion. This means that everything we do here must be within the existing division of responsibility. On the basis of that debate, I will look at the exact conclusions and whether or not these conclusions fit with what I have said about them, what others have said about them, what is the interpretation of those conclusions and so on. So I'm really deceiving this motion. I don't think she's timely. I think we should really look here at what I'm taking based on our conversations. Then I'm gonna get to it. If there's something weird in the conclusion that you think "how can you do that?', I'm gonna have to explain it here. So I would really make the motion in part no. 1628. And the earlier motion of the two petitioners of this motion will be carried out. The motion in part No. 1629: Judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 1630: Judgment Room. I read it in such a way that the Netherlands will then be in contact with the co-chairmen of the Minsk Group because we are not in it. The motion says: calls on the government to work towards this in the Minsk Group. Anyway, that's through the co-chairs, I suppose. On that note, I would like to give the motion in part No. 1630 Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 1631: Judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 1632: Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 1633: Also Judgment Chamber. But I read her like this. It says that we cannot agree to a legally binding insert either. No, if that undermines the rule of law mechanism. But what if a way out is found... there is no way out at the moment. I think the best thing that could be done now is to include a few sentences in the European Council conclusions on how to interpret the rule of law mechanism. But if this were to happen and in no way would change the rule of law mechanism, I would agree to such a legally binding insert. That is how I read the motion, because it says: 'calls on the government to ensure that the rule of law mechanism is not undermined by...' and then there are all kinds of things. So judge Chamber, but with that remark. Then the motion to part No. 1634. I'm fine with the first bullet. We do, but I still find the second bullet complicated. The reason is simply, as I said in the debate, that we currently have those sanctions, that there is agreement on a new third package, that I would like to conclude that and that there is now also a separate sanction regime for Belarus. So I'm dissuading the motion because of the second bullet. If the second bullet had sounded "to see how in the future a Magnitsky-like sanction system could work" against the background of the current development on this file, then it could.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u231	Good. And then what?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u232	But if she's not, I'm gonna have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u233	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u234	I think we're here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u235	That's it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u236	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u237	Then we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-08-tweedekamer-70.u238	We shall vote on the motions tabled tomorrow. I thank the Prime Minister. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament, the messengers, the clerks, the stenography service and the people who may have followed this debate.
