ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66 for his question on the security leak in Citrix software. The question is put to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The decade has started digitally again, I might add. I am very pleased that we, the House of Representatives, have set up a Digital Future Committee. Mr. Chairman. The University of Maastricht was hit by a ransomware attack. Students and teachers couldn't access their data. A man was arrested with 12 billion logins. After the Medical Center Leeuwarden and the municipality of Zutphen, hundreds of companies, institutions and other organisations have now been affected by the error in the Citrix software. This error turned out to be already in December. There was no update yet, no patch, no patch, as it is called, but a temporary solution. He said he'd be safe. But last Friday, the National Cyber Security Centre, the NCSC, called, on the basis of information from the AIVD, to completely shut down Citrix. That sounds simple and clear, but it is not, because for many organizations Citrix is not easy to deactivate at all. It also depends on the specific version you have or if there is a solution already. Employees of companies, municipal officials and ministries, MPs and directors can all not log in remotely. They can't check their mailbox over their phones. Working at home is not possible. There aren't enough flex workspaces. There's economic damage. There are even Citrixfiles! A few months ago, we were here, too. Then the Minister of Justice and Security called every company that doesn't have its digital security in order, an "unbelievable ball of oil." Does the Minister have it all in order, I wonder now. The first question I therefore put to him is: is the Minister of Justice and Security himself an incredible piece of oil? And if not, why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u3	Well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u4	Yes, Mr. Chairman, it's his own words.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. Now I have indicated that the cabinet is going to take a big step on the fireworks dossier, but now I understand that Mr Verhoeven obviously wants to deal with the oil bulbs as well. So it's going to be an ever more sober year, if I understand correctly. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to monitoring what is happening in the digital world of government and vital infrastructure, our public services have taken very big steps in recent years. I don't want that on myself. I would, of course, not like to be judged by Mr Verhoeven at the end of this cabinet ride either. I'm about to explain a little bit more about the past few weeks, but it's salient that some governments of great friendly nations have complimented the NCSC, the NCTV, but also the national CIO, the Chief Information Officer for the Empire, on their actions significantly ahead of what was being done in other countries. In August, the Scientific Council for Government Policy issued a very important opinion on this subject, which we discussed earlier in the Permanent Committee on the Chambers, that it is not a question of whether something in the digital world is going to cause social disruption, but that this is what is happening, according to the WRR, given the high degree of dependence we have in our society on our computer systems and digital technology. How'd it go here? On 17 December last year, so 17 December 2019, it was announced that there was a so-called vulnerability in the Citrix systems. As soon as possible thereafter, the NCSC issued a warning about this. From the beginning it was clear that Citrix could not offer a final solution. That final solution is what Mr Verhoeven calls the patch. However, interim security measures were offered by Citrix. However, on September 24th, the NCSC (National Cyber Security Centre) found that it was necessary to increase the warning to high-high.................................................................................................................................................................... I would stress that the NCSC, on the one hand, has constantly looked at what emerged from international consultations with experts and, on the other hand, has given advice on what government and vital parties could do. That situation has been continuously monitored. It has always been examined whether Citrix's mitigation interim measures were adequate and whether they were no longer needed at that time. On 9 January last a so-called exploit came out, not to be confused with the exploit, which a bailiff releases. An exploit is an English term. That is actually a programme which can be used to exploit the leak and which is published in circles of wrong hackers. They follow the services. When that became clear, the NCSC updated the advice and actively advised organizations within Rijk and Vitaal. They continue to assess whether the measures taken are adequate. On January 16th there was still no final solution of Citrix, so no patch. In addition, there was some doubt among the experts about the sustainability of the interim mitigation measures of Citrix, because by now we were two weeks further. This has prompted the NCSC to advise on Thursday evening: consider turning off your Citrix servers. This led the NCTV (National Counter-Terrorism and Security Coordinator) to scale up interdepartmentally. Next, on Friday 17 January, a security advice from the AIVD was issued for the government. On the same day, with my colleague Knops van BZK on behalf of the cabinet, I made the heavy assessment: how further? That would, as Mr Verhoeven quite rightly says, be a real step forward. We have decided to weigh up the opinion and also to take action. Under the coordination of the CIO Empire and the NCSC was then advised: turn off your Citrix servers, unless you show and motivate which thorough additional measures you need...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u6	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u7	...and why they are sufficient. I'm almost there, Mr. Chairman. It's okay to finish it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u8	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u9	Over the past few days, this has been in constant contact with all the organizations involved in Rijk and Vitaal, including throughout the weekend. The picture is that 50% of the users in the Netherlands now have patches available from Citrix. Citrix said that Friday this week the remaining patches will be available. The NCSC investigates and continues to investigate the quality of these patches, and continues to monitor with the NCTV whether there might be any additional problems. On Thursday, as has been offered by me, we will give a briefing to your experts in Home Affairs and to Justice and Security. Your Chamber has made good use of that. I would like to conclude with the following, Mr President. I have said this many times, and I admit it, the questioner too, so we can easily find each other in that, whether or not in the bakery: our digital security is constantly under pressure. The WRR says: it's not a matter of whether it happens, but you have to be prepared if it happens. Of course, we will also evaluate how things went here: have we handled this properly? We will also look at the implications for cyber policy. I am sure that I will take that immediately into account in the letter to your Chamber, which was announced for March, on the policy response to that WRR report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u10	I appreciate this fact and this comprehensive explanation. It's almost become a minicollege of cybersecurity. I appreciate that, too. I have a few brief questions about the situation today. I would also like to ask a few more general questions about cybersecurity. I would like to have some specific answers now. What are the estimated costs of this incident? Can the Minister say anything about that? Has national security been compromised? What measures have been taken now? I think the Minister has already said most of that. When will all people be able to use Citrix again? So when's the last patch of the versions that aren't covered yet? I'd still like to ask those questions. In the meantime, how can we prevent ministers, MPs and civil servants from working with an unsafe private address, as was done by Minister Kamp of Economic Affairs in the previous reign? Soon I will have a few general questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u11	First, the specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u12	I do not want to say anything about the estimated costs. It is clear that this is indeed a loss; we need to be very clear about this. But the most important thing is that the Chamber should also expect me to ensure that the services under me, together with the services under BZK, act alertly and actively in such a crisis and, of course, do not take measures that cause unnecessary damage and costs. That was also the reason why you should know that Knops and I had a really extensive discussion on Friday, which lasted until the beginning of the evening, in order to take that very far-reaching step. National security can always be at stake in this kind of situation, but it is of course true that we, together with the services, are also proactively acting on it as much as possible. That is all I can say at this stage. I would like to say a little more about that, but not in this gremium. Then we were asked what measures had been taken. Mr Verhoeven said that I had already said something about this. I'd like to make it a little more explicit. We have used the English expression 'comply or explain'. That means: turn off all your equipment from Citrix, unless you are convincingly at the national CIO or the NCSC or the competent sectoral Computer Emergency Response Team, which we have all set up, shows that you have taken additional security measures and that you are not in the contamination either. The latest version of that patch has announced Citrix before the end of the week, but for that I have to rely on what Citrix says. In the meantime, how do we prevent unsafe private mailing? Of course, it is also part of the consideration that organisations make that they consider how to proceed with their own traffic. There are organisations that are particularly affected in the field of homework and, as you have read in the newspaper, say: people should simply come to the office, with all the frictions that this entails. These were the special questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u13	Finally, because this case is not on its own. I have just mentioned a number of other problems. Because, of course, a number of other steps are needed, which I have often asked the Minister about. The National Cyber Security Centre should be able to do more in these situations. A call and widely supported D66 proposal is the possibility of scanning the vital infrastructure. When is the Minister going to do that? The wider sharing of information by the National Cyber Security Centre. a call from business... has not yet been settled. Also for a strong perseverance against all parts of the vital infrastructure, I am talking about banks, electricity, telecoms, the National Cyber Security Centre should be given more money and more powers. When is the Minister going to do that? The second question is when are we going to organise a legal obligation to implement such updates? The Minister has already spoken about this, but I have not yet seen any concrete proposals. And when is the government going to invest seriously in cybersecurity? The Minister has promised that there will be an investigation into what is needed to make the Netherlands digitally safe. I am very curious to see what the findings are and when we can expect results from them. I like to hear it. These are serious and pressing questions. As the Minister said, the New Year receptions are now coming to an end. I'd like to go to a pastry shop with the Minister, but the last thing the Netherlands needs is an unbelievable piece of oil at the Ministry of Justice and Security. So I hope the Minister can reassure me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u14	I completely missed the New Year receptions, both in my speech and last week, because then I was working on the islands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u15	I said, in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u16	Ah, yes. But let me be clear: at least we discussed these points in the general consultation at the beginning of November. I also indicated that in the policy response to the WRR report I would like to go back to this in detail, on all three points. It is, of course, very sad, but this course of events, as well as the incident in Maastricht, clearly indicates that this is something that we, as a society, parliament and cabinet, really need to deal with. But I will come back to those points in my policy response letter. Then I, I think, dealt with all those points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u18	I'm curious to see what the Committee on Digitisation comes up with, Mr Verhoeven. Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u19	With all due respect to all the people who have been working on this behind the scenes for weeks, I still don't get it. On December 17, it would have become known that there was a Citrix problem. I looked again, but that was already known on December 6th. Then, on balance, it will take until 17 January until the government shuts down Citrix, although in the meantime a high-high-risk qualification was given on 24 December. This means that, at least in the period from 17 December to 17 January, the door was open. That's what I'm worried about. 'Cause who came through that door without us seeing it? I do not need to explain to the Minister that he normally explains to us the risks involved. Could the Minister go into the question again as to why it has taken so long for these measures to be taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u20	Firstly, it is not the case that the door has been open from any moment. That is precisely what the so-called mitigating measures have been recommended for. There has also been very clear contact with the authorities and services involved. I have also indicated that it is not the case that between 24 December and 9 January there has been a standstill. On the contrary, there was constant updating on the one hand to see if the mitigating measures still seemed sufficient. On the other hand, of course, we also looked at what could be done with patches from Citrix. I would also like to refer to the technical briefing. Before we jump to conclusions, as is happening here a little bit, I think it is best for your Chamber to take note of the details.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u21	I'd like to have a factual account before that technical briefing. The Minister has already mentioned a lot of things, but I would like to include them, for example, from when Citrix knew himself, before it was mentioned? I myself do not understand this, and I agree with Mr Van Dam, among others. The National Cyber Security Centre said on 14 January at least that the threat is 9.8 on a scale of 10. 9.8 on a scale of 10! That's high-high indeed. I mean, you can barely get over it. So that was three days before the Minister gave the advice to deploy the systems, and that worries me. Because if it is so high, 9.8 on a scale of 10 p.m. Why hasn't it been decided sooner? Maybe that's because we didn't have relapse options after all? The Minister keeps saying that the WRR report is extremely important, but that means that we need to be prepared. Why isn't it right when it was 9.8, saying the systems had to be shut down?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u22	On 16 January, the National Cyber Security Centre monitored and gave the advice that organisations should consider disconnecting. I am ultimately responsible for that, but that was put in the hands of the National Cyber Security Centre. I think it would be a good idea to have a factual account of this before Thursday. By the way, this is already basically in the letter sent to your Chamber yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u23	All right, I'll go to Mr. Middendorp. No, sorry, Mr Van der Staaij, on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u24	By the end of the year, I'm going to buy apple flaps as well, because if those orbs fail, you'll have something else in your hands. Applied to what we are talking about today, I wonder if there is enough investment in workable relapse options. That is a question that always comes up in my face with all the digital vulnerability. In the case of electricity, at some point we had a system of emergency generators. It's a bit more complicated here, but is there enough work to be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u25	Especially since the word "sufficient" is mentioned in this question, it finds it rather far-reaching to express an opinion on this issue here. But I'm willing to promise to get back to that once we've done that evaluation. What the WRR and also the NCTV have regularly warned about, is the fact that we, in any case, are too dependent on all digital technology, so to speak, in our relapse options. Often there are no analogue relapse options. This is really something for the technical briefing, but this is also something that plays out when, for example, an authority that is confronted with the fact that someone has entered the systems, finds that not only those systems themselves but also their back-ups are infected. Then your relapse option is no longer a relapse option. However, I really want to refer to the technical briefing, with the undertaking that I will return to it in the context of the evaluation, in which we will, of course, also look at this aspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u26	There's just been talk of Band-Aids. I've also heard a lot about monitoring and advising. I think that good work is being done there, but the Minister also said at the end of the summer: I would prefer to look for myself at those companies that do not have information security in order. That's what my question is about. Are we looking at all these different ministries that are facing this? Is that what the Minister is planning, or is that already being done? And secondly, isn't it also important to check out America, where the supplier of this software is? There are examples in which the State has set itself quite firmly towards suppliers. This decisive minister may also have a role to play there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u27	Following an incident such as this, the NCSC will certainly also have to discuss with the supplier in the context of the on-the-spot evaluation if a final solution has been found. There is no doubt that Mr Middendorp has a very good point. Indeed, I indicated this this summer in a debate we had on this issue. The tricky thing is that, of course, the problem is that we have to agree with each other on a social basis that bodies such as the NCSC should have the authority to do so, because it is no use to you if I look at it myself. That is the point that Mr Verhoeven is right to make and which I shall come back to in the policy response. Shouldn't we simply impose obligations here at some point in the context of legislation? So far, the social view has not been so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u28	Mr Middendorp, second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u29	Yes, I understand that, but an active minister is going to help in the ministries, because there is a very big difference between the companies it was about at the time, around the summer, and our own infrastructure, namely that of the government and this house. I'm glad the minister's going to America, but all I hear is "monitoring" and "advising." I'm also looking for what's being done to help the various state institutions that are our own systems to fix this quickly and make it safe. Maybe there's something in there that could be better in the future. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u30	We have discussed this in detail with each other in general consultation. The point is that my powers and those of my services do not go so far as to dictate what needs to be done in different departments. Fortunately, we have a national CIO to give clues, but in the end all departments actually have their responsibility and have to take them in. That is why I have sent a letter to all the departments and pointed it out to them. We will have to discuss it with each other if you think that this minister, or his ministry, should have some kind of superpower in the field of ICT systems. To be honest, I am not convinced of this, but let us start a debate on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u31	This thing, the mobile phone, has unfortunately become indispensable for our work here in the House of Representatives. This thing hasn't been working in months. At first, we had Vodafone's mistakes. Then we had Microsoft's mistakes. Now we have the hole in Citrix' security. Does the Minister share my deep concern that our national democracy has become so dependent on foreign companies? Does he share my concern that these companies have an enormous influence on the way things are going here and that we have hardly any influence on the way things are going with these multinationals?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u32	Just in advance, the House of Representatives is a High College of State. That's what I'm saying with a slight bow. I certainly do not, and hope not to go into the future, about the decision of the House of Representatives in the field of ICT. I don't think any of your 150 members would want that. I myself do not think that this is compatible with democracy, the separation of powers and so on. However, the NCSC and the Cyber Experts of the Chamber are currently working very well together to solve the problems. At least, that's my impression. But for the High Colleges of State, that is and remains a responsibility of its own. The question of whether we feel that we have not become too dependent on third parties is certainly a question we need to answer. In my cybersecurity agenda last year, I also raised this issue. But what society thinks we should do there, I think we should discuss it in a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u33	At least I know I'm too dependent on my phone, but that's not so relevant right now. Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister, through you, if tomorrow we can go into the technical briefing specifically on the 158 countries and 80,000 companies that also use Citrix. It seems as if they are experiencing less serious problems or less in the high-high atmospheres, while they must also have major problems. I find a comparison relevant and useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u34	I will immediately admit that we will go into that. That was supposed to happen. The word "comparison" is a bit tricky. The point is that in many cases Citrix has been chosen in the Netherlands. It's different from country to country. I can say, however, that in some countries the process of action is beginning, let me put it this way, while in the meantime the date of 17 December is also in force, because then it became known.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u35	The question was whether these questions could be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u36	I told you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-4.u37	Fine, you'll be fine. Thank you.
