ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on dealing with the corona crisis. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister for Justice and Security and the Minister for Medical Care and, of course, the Members of Parliament and, above all, the people in the public gallery, who have been able to be here since Tuesday. I shall first give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA. The speaking time is five minutes and I propose that four questions be put in the first period. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. We have asked for a debate on the corona policy and there is every reason to do so. Unfortunately, however, today it seems to be a debate on the credibility and authority of this cabinet. I speak with a certain reluctance about this, because it is done in the wake of images from the private life of the Minister of Justice and Security, whom I believe we wish all the world's happiness, as we all do. The second reason I feel reluctant about that is because every human being makes mistakes. I think there is no one in this room who has never been in trouble with that one-and-a-half-meter rule. That shouldn't be the point here. Then why is it a political problem that we have to talk about? Why does it touch credibility and authority? Because this minister is the chairman of the Security Council. Because this minister is in charge of the policemen who have to enforce the rules. Because this minister said in the introduction of the fines about people who do not follow the rules: "this is a sloppy, laconic, antisocial way of dealing with the measures; that costs lives, unnecessary." Because the Minister said this summer with regard to that one-and-a-half-metre measure, 'I am not making any concessions'. And then it stings. Then people who have made sacrifices, entrepreneurs who say: if I do not prevent people from not complying with the rules, I may get a fine of €10,000 and then my business might close. Then it is in the knowledge that there are Dutch people who have not hugged their mother for months, who have postponed their marriage, who have had to hold funerals in a much smaller circle. Then it stabs older people in nursing homes that haven't seen their children. And then it stains when the image arises of a cabinet that is strict for society and soft for itself. That's why I want to know from the cabinet, from the Prime Minister and the Minister: what's your message to that enforcer who has to have that complicated conversation on the street about a fine? What is your message to people for whom €390 is a large amount they have to pay? What is your message to Dutch people who also have difficulty with these rules based on this cabinet policy? How are you going to restore credibility and authority? But, Mr President, I don't want to talk about that alone. We're waiting for that part of the debate. The cabinet didn't feel like an independent external opinion on how things had gone with the corona policy, but it did, because this Chamber wanted it to. I think that has been useful, because yesterday we saw examples of change, of new measures. The cabinet now decides on protective equipment in the nursing homes, but now decides on preventive testing. That's profit. Mr Marijnissen will be making a plea in the near future that affects the protective equipment in the care sector. I think that's essential, because we don't want to go through that nightmare in the nursing homes again and not keep people away from their loved ones for so long. As far as testing is concerned, too often we see promises, promises, promises and a reality that is left behind. That has very big consequences. This has great consequences because a teacher who has a cold has to send the class home, which means that children are no longer taught. It has huge consequences because people cannot go to work and it affects the willingness to test. So it also affects our strategy, which we need to implement to contain the virus. My question to the cabinet is: why just say that it is interesting what they are doing in Denmark and why not adopt that approach? Since April they have been testing much more, easily accessible. Isn't it time, and I will support this with Mr Klaver, among others, to give priority to testing people in the vital professions, on the way to a moment when everyone gets a test and the result in the shortest time? Because the consequences are very big. That is not a side issue, of which you can keep saying 'we have to work on it' or 'that needs to be sorted out'. No, that's essential in the strategy of containment. The third is the schools. As far as I'm concerned, the school vacation has not been used sufficiently. The first day of school came the message that a team was coming to check out the ventilation. My request to the cabinet is to help those schools. My question would be whether we could not agree with the regional coding that will apply to nursing homes in order to help schools. Look what the Red Team has advised on this, so that children and teachers can safely go to school and not be sent home again, but also not be powerless to look at an outbreak. Mr. Chairman. The containment of the virus saves lives and saves our economy. For that, we need a learning cabinet with authority. That's the question for this cabinet: do we have a hard learner's cabinet? We simply cannot afford that, not as far as the virus is concerned and not as far as society is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Mr President. We too await the answers of Minister Grapperhaus to the crucial question that Mr Asscher has just asked: how is he going to restore credibility? We would like to stress that it is not a question of ignoring the one and a half metres. Probably we can all take a picture of each of us once in a while. It's not about that. It is about the minister who is responsible for the one and a half metres, who carries it out and who has to enforce the rules. It's about a minister saying, "When you're having a party and you can't live up to that foot and a half, you're a bunch of asos." I'm also curious how he looks back on his own partyers, having said that. But it's about a minister who has that responsibility. Then credibility is at stake, and that is very serious. We'd like to see how the Minister reacts to that. Another point that we want to take into account today is the judicial record, better known as the criminal record that people get, next to such a high corona fine. We have always had problems with this, but we now believe that the Minister should refrain from doing so. It should be withdrawn and we should not do so in the future, because it simply is not proportionate. There are other very important things to discuss in this debate as far as I am concerned. The leaked plans of the cabinet would show that the cabinet intends to ship our caregivers with a bonus. I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister if that's true. We really don't think we can do that. We've applauded all these people, but we need them all as much as we need them. A substantial part of the people who are now working in care are considering doing something else: we cannot afford that at all! On Saturday we will take action, at 14.00 hours on meerdanapplaus.nl, a large online action for the care for the sole purpose: the cabinet has to come up with a structural salary increase for our caregivers on Prinsjesdag. Mr. Chairman. At the press conference yesterday, we heard that the cabinet is adopting the OMT advice which finally states that preventive protective materials are possible and necessary for our caregivers in the nursing homes. We are very pleased with that. Not just us, but a lot of carers have asked for that very often. We do have two questions. The first is: why only in the nursing homes? You can argue: if you finally think that it has a function in nursing homes, it also has that function in, for example, disability care. So that would also be our plea: not only do it in nursing homes, but give all caregivers who want it, protective materials. The second question concerns our stock. We keep hearing the cabinet talk about a so-called iron supply. I would very much like to hear exactly what we can expect from the cabinet. If I heard correctly, Minister De Jonge said yesterday at the press conference: we can handle a peak of eight weeks with the protective materials. Is this based on the old directive or is it based on the new directive, which is based on the understanding that protective materials should also be used preventively? Of course, that's quite a difference. We would also like to know about the production of protective equipment in our own country. We've had time all summer to get this started right. This has been promised several times here. We would like to know whether, as a country, we can be self-sufficient at a possible second peak, where it is about protecting our healthcare providers. Mr. Chairman. "The testing is gonna beep and crack," I think that was the Minister's words at the press conference yesterday. Honestly, I didn't know what I heard. Where it's about testing, squeaking and cracking it in the short term. There's just not enough tests right now. I'm really wondering how this is possible. We've talked so much about it here and we've asked so many times about it. It has been promised so many times that this test capacity would be increased. Since yesterday we have the so-called r again in the month; autumn is at the door. And we're already short! We don't have enough tests yet. We are currently seeing in education how this cabinet's test policy is failing. Teaching money does not currently go to teachers to give good education, but schools have to spend the money on commercial testing because otherwise classes will be home too long. I ask the Minister how this is possible. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the source and contact research. We have always made the analysis here that the source and contact research is the basis of our approach. This has to be in order. We can now see that this is still not sufficiently in order. There are problems with capacity. We read that on 28 June the Ministry of Health did not order the GGD to scale up and expand what has always been advocated and promised here but precisely to scale down. First of all, I ask the Minister whether it is true that this message went from VWS to the GGD on 28 June. And I ask the minister where he was with his head at the time, which allowed him to give that order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u6	Thank you, Mr President. "Equality is a precious and therefore vulnerable asset. It is precious, because it desires everyone to correct and restore inequalities as soon as they arise. And it is vulnerable, because equality can be disturbed at any time by someone who takes the liberty of ending equality," said Minister Graperhaus on the principle of equality in his book "Rafels to the Rule of Law" from 2017. The quote can be read today in the NRC. Mr. Chairman. You don't like to see a good minister leave. It would not have been necessary if the Minister had taken his role as an example seriously, even at his own wedding. But the Minister of Justice and Security has completely lost his credibility. He's out of control. The Minister undermines government policy in this corona crisis. The minister undermines the authority of the enforcers, the police officers, the boas. He's putting them in danger because of it. The minister undermines the authority of the prosecution and the judiciary. He undermines the democratic rule of law, in which class justice is no place. Because ordinary people who are not ministers don't get away with "sorry" and a donation to charity, but they get a criminal decision, better known as the corona fine, and a note on their legal document; in popular terms this is called a criminal record. This has far-reaching consequences. The leaked photos show the minister shaking hands and hugging loved ones. Secretary of State Broekers-Knol denied that the corona rules were broken on Thursday. She could have known, because she was there. It was a lie, it turns out. Why did the Secretary of State lie? How can the Minister still defend the policy? People who adhere very strictly to the rules have made great sacrifices. Not only festivities, such as weddings and parties, were postponed, but grandpas and grandmothers could no longer be hugged. People died lonely. People have buried loved ones in very small circles. Impossible choices, irreparable grief. A lot of people lost their jobs. Companies that obeyed the rules have gone bankrupt. Mr. Chairman. If anything positive could come out of this debate, it is that the cabinet would agree that the corona punishments are disproportionately heavy. Or, as Rutte said at the press conference, you're not doing it for the Prime Minister, you're doing it not for the Minister of Justice, but for the health of yourself, your loved ones and your environment. But I think that if the Minister of Justice puts a fine on it, it applies to everyone. That is the principle of equality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This debate is about credibility. How credible is this cabinet's approach to the corona crisis? How credible are testing policies and testing strategies? And how credible is it to impose rules on society that the Minister of Justice and Security of their own does not respect? Can the police and the enforcers with authority demand compliance on behalf of the same minister? Mr. Chairman. I will begin with a number of other topics. Yesterday at the press conference, the Prime Minister said: "We have achieved a great deal. Look where we stand compared to March and April. We can also sit on the terrace on weekends." That's right, but is there really cause for optimism? Not if we conclude that 30,000 people are infected right now. In June and July there were 1,700 infectious people. And as with the rest of the approach to the corona crisis, there seems to be more and more façade politics here: a beautiful façade here in the debates, but a lack of implementation on the back. I would like to hear from the cabinet how the number of infections can be significantly reduced again. Mr. Chairman. If there is one element that is unclear, it is the test capacity and the test strategy. Yesterday Hugo de Jonge said: "The GGD can barely keep up and therefore the waiting time is increasing in many places. At the moment, the demand for tests is just bigger than the laboratories can handle with their materials. That's going to stay that way for a while, so I really want to say that you should only be tested if you have complaints." I may have followed other debates here in the Chamber, but I have also heard this Minister say: we are going to test 30,000 people a day from 1 June, and we are going to increase that to 70,000 in the autumn. So I don't understand why the capacity promised from June 1st should be 210,000, whereas yesterday the minister said that at 160,000 he simply has a very big problem. That's just not the deal, not the promise. In addition, the Minister has indicated that every Dutchman who wants to be tested can be tested. Like my colleague Marijnissen, I am excited about this. There seems to be a difference between what the Minister says here and what is actually being realized. Is it true that, as with those ICU beds in April, we also need the help of Germany here to get sufficient test capacity? The interbranch organisation of the care, with not less than 400 organisations, openly question whether there is sufficient testing capacity at the GGD. That is a very worrying signal. Mr. Chairman. Why isn't there a test at Schiphol? From countries with code orange and code red, people come in. There is no obligation and the test site is difficult to find. In the evening and on weekends, it's just closed. The cabinet also loses credibility when it comes to source and contact research. Despite the many promises made by the same minister, this is not being achieved. The GGDs would be completely ready, but still there are signs that the source and contact research is inadequate. There is no surveillance of the ten-day quarantine and we often hear that not all people who have had contact with an infected person are called. How's the cabinet gonna improve this? My group is concerned that the current measures are sufficiently thought-out to prevent a second wave and effectively prevent outbreaks in nursing and nursing homes. Too much is being hammered on just wearing and scaling up personal protective equipment, as if it were the only means. Research shows that wearing masks alone is not enough. I read in the recess a PhD study by Dr Charifa Zemouri of the University of Amsterdam. The conclusion is that ventilation is the main prevention factor for the transmission of the virus, as was the case with the outbreak of SARS in 2003. The group of DENK likes to see a multiple approach. Infection sites should be prevented. Otherwise mop with the tap open. Mr. Chairman. I started my contribution on credibility, and that's what I'm gonna end up with. The embodiment of maintaining the strict corona rules is the Minister of Justice and Security. Let me be clear. I give every one, especially this minister, an unforgettable day with his loved one. But I also know many people who, on the other hand, have postponed their marriage because of the strict rules, who have not. That's acid. Tens of thousands of people have been fined and many have received a judicial record. I proposed, in an adopted motion, that the judicial notice should lapse. Minister Grapperhaus' response to that motion was harsh. "These are behaviours that increase the risk of infection with the highly contagious coronavirus. That cannot be tolerated," he writes. What is the state of this minister's behaviour and how does it reflect the credibility of Mark Rutte, who went straight behind his minister? Finally, Mr President. The cabinet had no complaints about the amount of problems in dealing with the corona crisis and credibility is not improving.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u9	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u10	Mr. Chairman. In this time of corona you see in society, but actually in each of us two feelings stand opposite each other. On the one hand the will to get back to normal, to be free, to be near other people, but on the other hand also the permanent feeling of insecurity when it gets crowded, when someone gets too close to you or when you hear a cough or a sneeze behind you. In my opinion, the vast majority of Dutch people are trying very hard to comply with the rules, but they feel how difficult that can be in practice every day. If you look at the results of the past few weeks: Mr Marijnissen mentioned the r that is in the month, but the R is also below 1. You feel relief about that, because that is part of what we Dutch achieve with each other in this crisis. At the same time you can feel the tension increasing, the tension over the contradictions. On the one hand, people who really have enough of the rules and on the other hand people who think that we need to act harder. A paragon of the contrasts that become sharper can be seen in the images of our colleague Pieter Omtzigt, who was attacked on the Square. The images of Minister Grapperhaus' marriage are actually in the epicenter of this tension. Especially in those who struggle with keeping a sensible distance, the question comes up "but he must set an example." And "why does he?" Those questions are understandable and, I think, justified. The Minister has therefore expressed his immediate and clear regret. That was wise, but it was necessary. At the same time, we are here in this debate, because today we have to explain and account for this in this House. Mr Asscher referred to the boas that give signals: can and do we still want to maintain? I know the Minister has spoken to them, but I also think he should explain here what he is doing to enable those boas to do their job. There are also people who have the feeling: I get a fine. Aldermen say this morning in the newspaper and also in the BOA Bond: there are hardly any more fines; it happens with warnings. That would have happened here, but still, the feeling that there would be a difference, the equality that was cited by Mr Van Kooten Arissen... I believe that the Minister should also provide text and explanation and be accountable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u11	First of all, the Animal Party really hates that someone has been in the bushes to photograph a marriage of one of these ministers. This is not how we want it in the Netherlands. But when the footage came out, the Minister did not immediately express his regret, as the chairman of the CDA's group said. I would ask the chairman of the CDA to keep the facts clear. At first, the minister said, "I'm fine." The same applies to the Secretary of State. He also claimed to be okay. Later it came to regret and later it became clear that it was not just about the 1.5 meters but that there was hugging and that hands were given. Yeah, that's what other people in the Netherlands want. How does the CDA group respond to that? 'Cause we can't take this off a little if: there's been an immediate remorse. That's just not true!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u12	At the end of last week, there was indeed a remorse and conversations were held with enforcers, with mayors. But I have also indicated that there are questions in society, precisely about the position of the boas, precisely about feelings like: why does this minister do this and why do I feel that I am being fined for that? That is a responsibility that must be borne in mind in this debate. That's exactly what I just indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u13	Then the CDA Group will be involved in the game that the cabinet is trying to play, namely: we will keep it as small as possible and we will have no further additions to the statements that have already been made. But that statement was very strongly based on: people, that one-and-a-half meter rule; we failed and we regret it. Everyone in the Netherlands thinks: yes, that happened to me; I was sometimes too close by accident. The cabinet and the minister expressed regret for what was known at that time. Later we saw that it went much further. Of course you have to reflect on that, I think. For apart from the facts, that pattern is very bad for the Party for the Animals, the pattern of only expressing regret about what has come out and not immediately putting the whole truth on the table and saying: yes, I have indeed hugged and gave people hands; sorry, people, because I am well aware that others would have wanted that in the past few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u14	I have just started my speech about those conflicting feelings that became heavy in society, which makes the feeling of both boas and people when they see these images so great. On the contrary, I have also indicated that the Minister is responsible for these images in this debate too, because they are also related to the feelings of boas in the sense of "can we still do our job?', "do we still want to do that?', but also with people who feel "can a minister do this?" And "Would I have been fined for this?" I think the Minister should give us a text and an explanation. If I didn't feel that way, I wouldn't have said that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u15	Finally. The CDA Group very easily ignores the fact that there is a strong objection to the way in which the Minister has dealt with it. Again, that five-foot could have happened to all of us. If it had been, it would have been, but he chose to put people on the wrong foot. He chose to apologize for suggesting that it was just that 1.5 meters. Now other images have come out showing that these rules have been broken on all fronts. And that's the point. If a minister only dares to respond to what is already known in society, while he was more well-known, if he does not respond to it and the Secretary of State for Justice and Security does not respond to it, then we cannot assume that, once it has gone wrong, this cabinet has the courage to fully acknowledge, appoint, go out and say: I regret that. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u16	In my view, I have also indicated that, when it comes to the images that are coming out and the role of a minister as a model, it is important that the debate should contain a text and explanations and be accountable. It is also logical that all parties here should ask for this, precisely because of this exemplary role. And in last week's statement, the Minister indicated that it was all well organised in the front, but that it did not happen in practice. From the photos that came out last night, it turns out it was for himself, too. For that, too, he will have to answer in this debate, but that also goes wider to society: to those boas, to those people who feel "why did he and I didn't?"
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u17	It is not my concern that the Minister violated that strange one-and-a-half-meter rule once. He won't be the only one. There will be several, including me, who once happened to me. It's not about him apologizing. It's about hypocrisy. It is this Minister of Justice who has made sure that there are rules and that people get fines if they break those rules. Companies get such high fines, from €4,000 to €10,000, that they can go bankrupt if they break the rules. It was this minister who called parties asos, who managed to disrupt children's parties in Haarlem with fifteen policemen and who said: stop it! It was this minister who took on this hypocritical role, and that is the problem. We don't have class justice in the Netherlands. This is not the Minister of Class Justice, I hope, but the Minister of Justice. And I would like to have a reaction from the CDA colleague. It's not about breaking the rules once, it's about hypocrisy. Do you at least agree with me that if the minister gets away with depositing money into the Red Cross account, which the normal Dutchman really doesn't get away with if he gets a fine with a criminal record, he must now also have the guts to ensure that all those fines are waived, that the endorsement that people have received on their criminal record is withdrawn and that every Dutchman who has broken that law is treated equally as Mr.Grapperhaus, namely no fine?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u18	When it comes to those corona rules and whether or not to maintain them, the ambiguity lies in almost every human being. I think we all saw people who didn't keep that distance at one point, but who complained about others who didn't. But the issue here is that this minister has an exemplary role to play in this. And that is why he has to answer here about the images that have come up. The fact that there would be class justice... That is not possible; I agree with Mr Wilders if that were the case. This debate will also have to be spelled out and explained. I have just indicated the following in my speech. Look at what aldermen said this morning and what the BOA Bond says. They say: there are almost no more fines in practice; it happens with warnings. If this behavior is what others are fined for... That's not what the BOA Bond says. He says this would be a warning. That needs to be clarified in this debate. How does this work? Do others get a fine for this or a warning?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u19	What the hell? The aldermen and the BOA Bond? I'm just talking about this minister. Don't act like there's hardly any speeding tickets! Until May, I think we have been the frontrunner in Europe with the issue of coupons. This minister has been the ticket champion in the Netherlands. In total, more than 10,000, I think even tens of thousands, have been written out for people who break the rules. Those people got a criminal record or a record, at least if they did it for the second time. They got a fine. There were people on a wall. Remember? Two children sat 30 centimeters too close together and got a fat fine. People went outside to eat and they were all thrown on the ticket: €390 each. I also give this minister his party; that's not the point. But this minister has broken a law and he gets away with depositing a sum into the account of the Red Cross. He's not getting a criminal record. He's just gonna get away with it! That is my question to you. He's responsible for a lot of coupons that have been written out. Do you also think that if he does not have to pay the ticket, the rest of the Netherlands, who had to pay the ticket, should get his money back immediately, that those cases should be dismissed and that the criminal record that people have received should be withdrawn? Equal monks, equal hoods. We don't have separate rules when you're in "K."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u20	I believe that in the beginning of the corona period, March, April and May, there were relatively many fines. That was also a time when things were getting crazy and a lot of people knowingly and knowingly didn't follow the rules because of a lack of knowledge, even if they were addressed to them. What I read and see is that there are hardly any fines at the moment. Enforcement is done by pointing out people and by warning people. In practice, there are hardly any more fines. These are questions that need to be answered in this debate. But there are also differences between the situation at the beginning of this spring and the situation now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u21	Finally. It's not a question of whether a lot of or little fines have been paid, is it? That's not the principle, is it? The principle is that this minister made up the fines, right? His signature is under that horrible corona law, and I think he should get his signature out of it immediately, because that law can't go on if it's a foot and a half in it. This minister has called people asos. I will not repeat it all, Madam President, but this minister has sent police to children's parties. He's got a really big bag of butter on his head if that guy's gonna say, "I'm sorry, I'm not paying a ticket, but the Dutch guy is?" Whether it's 10 or 100,000, it can't be. That's class justice, isn't it? Surely you, as a CDA, should agree, even if it is a minister of your party, that he is hypocritical, and that he should make sure that the people who have received a ticket, whether they are 10,000 or 100, get their money back, lose their criminal record and be treated equally? Again, we do not have separate laws in the Netherlands for ministers and for the asshole people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u22	It does matter whether the vouchers are issued or not. The suggestion that a lot of vouchers are issued for this is indeed relevant to whether there would be class justice. That is something that needs to be answered in this debate, so whether it is indeed the case, as enforcers say, that in practice those vouchers are not issued at all. In addition, the minister has an exemplary role and is rightly said by all kinds of parties: this also affects the confidence that exists in society and in the enforcers. In this debate, in addition to the excuses that have been made and the discussions that have taken place with enforcers and mayors, we need to explain, explain and explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u23	It is not true what Mr Heerma says. Those fines are not imposed only after a warning. That is precisely what a lot of lawsuits are about, of people sitting outside in good faith with their father, mother, children, friends or friends and trying to follow the rules, but who were then thrown on the ticket and were not warned at all. In fact, Mr Grapperhaus, the Minister, wrote himself in response to parliamentary questions as to whether there is always a warning, in my opinion from the SP: everyone now knows and is familiar with the rules, so we are now more on enforcement and we are not always warned anymore. So that was written by the Minister himself in response to Parliamentary questions, not so recently. What is Mr Heerma's reaction to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u24	You're telling me what I'm saying isn't true. The fact is that in the press conference the Prime Minister states that enforcement is often carried out by means of warnings. All kinds of aldermen indicate that in practice much more is warned, such as: people, pay attention, you get close to each other. The BOA Bond also indicates that there are almost no fines. It's done through warnings. Let us await the answer of the cabinet to this question, but those are the sources I referred to when I mentioned it in my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u25	Then we will indeed wait for that answer. Everyone has been able to read the questions of Parliament and the answers to them. I am very curious to know what the Minister thinks of that. I do have another question for Mr Heerma. Are you familiar with the video footage of the council meeting in which the Mayor of Bloemendaal says that he feels a lot of empathy and therefore compassion with the parents who are concerned about the 61 young people who have received a fine in his municipality, a criminal order and therefore a criminal record? He says: I feel very much for these parents, because that indeed has consequences for study, for future work and for whether you can still travel abroad. Those kids didn't stand together to risk that knowingly. The Mayor of Bloemendaal said: I would like to do something about it, but that is not possible, because the Minister of Justice has the responsibility for this and he has taken a very firm position on this which I cannot take.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u26	I haven't seen this footage of the mayor of Bloemendaal. That is the answer to the first part of Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's question. The fact that this mayor is expressing his concerns about young people and their future speaks for him. The question of when to impose a fine, how high it is and what consequences it has, I think the Prime Minister also said yesterday that it has no consequences for vogs and such things. These are really elements that need to be discussed when dealing with such a corona law. I'll try to look at the footage of the mayor of Bloemendaal. I haven't seen them yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u27	I am aware that it does not supposedly affect the application for a vog, but the fact is that that judicial note, that note on the judicial document, remains in place. If you want to be a judge, if you want to be a prosecutor, if you want to be a police officer, if you want to be a boa, it's just gonna be seen. And who guarantees me that this record, that criminal record, does not affect whether or not you are accepted or invited to a job interview etc.?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u28	This seems to me to be a very appropriate debate to have with each other. I am curious to hear the answer of the cabinet in the handling of the law. I think Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen is right to raise these questions. We will have to discuss it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u29	I hear the CDA is getting harder and harder to react. This minister made a mistake. He admitted it. Other people get a fine for that. You insist that it is not, but will we then consider what would happen if this minister had run a red light? Would it have made sense that he would not be fined for this, while others would have been fined for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u30	That is exactly the question before us. If you run a red light, you're gonna get flashed and you're gonna get a fine. This is true of MPs, as is the case of ministers. It's not my claim that nobody gets a fine. I see both local directors and boas saying: warnings are issued in practice for this type of behaviour and no penalties. The question is whether the conclusion that there is class justice is justified. There has been a mistake, there has been an apology, there has been a need for talks with mayors and boas, and that is why this debate must also be accountable. That is why I asked my question about this example, about the position towards the boas, but also about the explanation to people who feel that they would have been fined for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u31	So I'm in something different than Mr Wilders. I believe that this minister should receive the same fine and that he should also get that note that he gets and that he gets a big push, because that's what everyone gets. You say it almost doesn't happen, but we just heard that 61 young people were fined in Bloemendaal. We've seen people eating pastries together and getting a fat bill presented. I really think the CDA is dealing here with ostrich politics: head in the sand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u32	It's been noted. I asked the question I asked. You've already come to your conclusion. Many colleagues have asked for additional explanations. Let us wait for the first time to see whether your conclusion is justified, also given the other signals that have been given about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u33	Then Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u34	Until July, almost 23,000 fines have been issued. We can look at what the Minister has done in different ways. We are all human beings, nothing human is strange to us, but if we say that of this minister, then perhaps we should say that of the rest of society as well. Then that means something for the establishment of a cabinet. Young people sitting together, who want to embrace each other for a while, who need a party, maybe you shouldn't call them asos. It may also mean that fines are not justified. It may also mean that that note we give people on their criminal record is not justified. What does the situation in which the Minister of Justice ended up for the substance of the CDA's attitude towards policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u35	I think Mr Klaver is asking a fair question about how you deal with it. It touches on the questions that Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen has already asked. I think the question "what is proportional and how should you deal with it?" It is no longer proportionate because a picture of the Minister of Justice has appeared. Actually, I'd like to separate those two things. The Minister has to answer and give text and explanations on questions like "why is he allowed to do this?" And "why didn't he follow his example?" That is what he should do about the question of class justice. But the question, which Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen rightly asked, whether things are proportionate or not, we absolutely need to discuss with each other. I think the treatment of the corona law is the place to do that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u36	Rest assured, that will be the subject of this debate, but I also think it is relevant for this debate. It is about the credibility of the Minister. I saw some embarrassment just now because it's also about his personal life. They're photos from there. But that's what it's about. For me it is important to know how the CDA looks at this whole situation as well as the question of the authority of this minister. Then, I think, there are two possible conclusions or two directions. Or this minister indicates that he has been wrong about this, and it also has implications for policy. Then you say maybe we should do things differently. Perhaps this is a symbol of what policy may not have been entirely good. But if you want to stick around to call people asos and keep on fineing, if you want to indicate that these kinds of parties are "corona parties," then this minister has a problem if he wants to keep telling you this. That's why I'm looking for that content. I don't want it to be just about what this minister did. That stands for something wider. It represents the split we all feel. We all know that 1.5 meters is important to keep us all healthy. We also know how hard it is to keep it. That is why I consider it relevant for our final weighing-up in this debate how the CDA looks at the content of the Corona debate. Shouldn't we get rid of criminalising people who break the rules because we see how fast it can happen and even the Justice Minister can make mistakes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u37	In principle, the reason for keeping to those rules and agreements is not to do with a prime minister or a minister, but with responsibility for the health of yourself but also for those of others. Mr Klaver is right to touch that. That's the guiding principle. That, I believe, is why people stick to things like not shaking hands and inviting no more than six people at home, which was at the last press conference. You can see that there is a great willingness in the Netherlands to stick to that, not because of fear of a fine but because of taking responsibility. Everyone feels this tension, as Mr Klaver said, and so do I. It is precisely because of this tension that the Minister's role as a model is so great. In reply to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's question, I made it very clear that these questions about proportionality, when it comes to the note, must be asked. That is something that needs to be debated. But that's not because a picture of a minister who found it difficult to keep that distance at the time. The question is this: would others also be fined for this? Questions have been asked about this and we need to be accountable. But the substantive question of what is proportional to the future is quite right. Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen has said the same. This will have to be discussed in this debate, but I think, above all, in the Corona Act. We must also realise that fines may sometimes have been imposed for very different behaviour, which is much more serious, which has been deliberately shown and which has also been malicious towards boas. We must therefore continue to differentiate. That will also be part of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u38	My point is that this does fit in with this debate. You see this minister made a mistake, and it's very human behavior we've seen. That should also mean that you have the courage to look at the policies that have been pursued. If we do not do that in this debate, then that is the choice of the CDA if this is said, then it is only about how the Minister behaved there and whether he can still speak with authority about all the measures he is expressing for this country. It is therefore important in this debate. What the Minister's behavior has shown is how difficult it is. Perhaps we should say to each other: that 1.5 meters is extremely important, but how we want to maintain it and the assignment we gave our boas goes too far. That is part of this debate. If the CDA does not want that, not in this debate, it will only be about what the Minister has done, and that would be a shame to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u39	I think I was trying to point out that this question also plays a role in this debate, but certainly also in the Corona Act. The Corona Act is about what the rules are and what the consequences are. This should therefore also be the subject of this debate. Nevertheless, I continue to consider the distinction to be important. That is not the same as the idea that it is not being discussed in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u40	I shall stick to the beginning of Mr Heerma's reply. He said, "There's not really gonna be any more fines." In doing so, he really wants to point out that what the Minister of Justice and Security has done is something you get away with in practice. I realized that's exactly what we don't want to radiate. People are looking at this debate and seeing a group leader from one of the largest parties, including in the government, who actually says: yes, there haven't been so many fines in the last two months; you're getting away with a warning. This is the example, isn't it? This is the effect we don't want to have with each other, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u41	I do not agree with Mr Azarkan's summary of what I am saying. I also disagree with the conclusion he makes. I have just tried to outline, even at the beginning of my speech, that society is under tension because of these great conflicting feelings. Some of the people say, "I want to get rid of those rules at all." And another part of the people says: there needs to be much harder action. That's why those pictures of marriage are so in the center, the epicenter, of that tension. I didn't say let it all happen. I have said that several aldermen and boas have indicated that we are not trying to enforce a great deal of fines in practice, but first we point out to people, then we warn, and as an ultimatum remedium we have a fine in hand. In fact, it was said in a newspaper this morning that this would have become a warning. But to radiate that you do have to pay a fine for everything... I don't know if I agree with Mr. Azarkan's conclusion. I also think he doesn't sum up my story very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u42	Should this debate not be about testing capacity, about source and contact research, about how we can seek cooperation with other parts, so that we can look at how we can learn from experiences from other countries? The practice is that everyone can say at the next sanction that is imposed: yes, but the Minister got away with it. If that gets in the way of us, does that mean that we are asking for either another policy, Mr Klaver, or that we are saying that it is a consequence?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u43	The question is whether your conclusion is correct that, in the case of exactly this same behaviour, everyone would be fined. That is the question that has been asked. That needs to be accounted for and explained in the first term. But I agree with Mr Azarkan's first point. This debate should also cover all the other major issues surrounding corona. I have heard a number of colleagues ask very hard questions, but then they went to the content, about source and contact research and about testing. Yes, this debate is very important, and that is what it should be about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u44	We are dealing here with a minister who calls others asos, then explicitly violates the rules himself and is ultimately not honest about it. Anyway, we're about to hear from the Minister how he looks back on that. I would like to ask Mr Heerma how we are going to proceed with this. You can see that almost you could say "even" the Minister of Justice is going wrong. With that we see what we all experience, namely how very difficult that one-and-a-half meter rule can be. That brings me to the question of whether Mr Heerma agrees with us that the fine is already very high in itself. Should we not now say that to Mr Heerma?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u45	I have just referred to Mr Klaver's reply to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, who was the first to raise this question. Yeah, I think the question "what's proportional?" on the agenda. That's mostly about the story of the mayor of Bloemendaal. What are the consequences? And is it proportional? The ultimate answer or I think that it needs to be adjusted also depends on the answer, on what behaviour and when the fines will be paid. Because we can now say that all fines are about these kinds of things with a warning, but we know that in practice there is also different behavior. So I am not saying no to this. I think the discussion should be conducted. But I want to be able to weigh it up on the basis of the content and the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u46	I think that's a little too easy. Because the Minister's answer will be about exactly what happened at that wedding party, why the Minister has not been honest about it at first, how he wants to restore his credibility and so on. But I ask Mr Heerma for a very tough measure, which is disproportionate. We now see that even a Minister of Justice can go wrong. But he doesn't get a criminal record. Then it is no longer possible to explain to all those people who have been given the criminal record or who may be given it in the future. That is the question I would like to ask. I'd like to make it easier for Mr. Heerma, perhaps...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u47	Even easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u48	Yes. Look, of course we're not interested in the people who really... I'd almost say "be real assholes," but I can't say that here. We are not concerned with people who are really in violation, who are organizing corona parties and who have had such a fine. We are concerned here with so-called bullshit fines; a number of examples have just been mentioned. We're talking about those people who get a criminal record, too. Wouldn't it be a good idea, for example, to ask the D.A. to keep that under review and at least, now that we have seen this, to ensure that that disproportionate criminal record goes off?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u49	I didn't mean to get rid of it easily. So if that is Mrs Marijnissen's impression: I apologise for that. I just tried to refer to that corona law as well. This is because the text and explanation and accountability play a part in this debate, but the real question of how we deal with it in the future must also be addressed in the Corona Act. So it is not, as Mr Klaver thought, that it should be here alone. On the contrary, I think that we should take this question very seriously, precisely because of the layering that Mrs Marijnissen herself makes, namely that there are differences. And in these differences, we will have to have the debate with each other and, as political groups, we will have to consider what we consider proportional in this regard. I have indicated that I am open to this discussion both to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen and to Mr Klaver and to Mrs Marijnissen. This is precisely because I do not want to get rid of it too easily, but want to be able to weigh it seriously, on the basis of the debates and the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u50	Mr Asscher. At the middle microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u51	I am a little confused about the argument about the fines that are less often imposed. I think it is about the authority of the cabinet in influencing the behaviour of society. That is not something from spring; it is still necessary. On 22 July, the Minister says about who we're talking about, that people shouldn't let their behavior go down, even "if you're sitting on a beach this summer, visiting an amusement park with your children or ordering a good glass of wine on a terrace." As far as the one and a half meter measure is concerned, he says: I do not make any concessions. The question that is being raised is whether it would be any more impressive if the Minister were to say the same words tomorrow. That's what it's about. I don't care about boa X or boa Y. That boa senses that he can now speak to people with less title and authority. He doesn't want to pay a fine at all, but he gets a big mouth. He gets it back: your own minister doesn't! That's my question. I therefore ask Mr Heerma how, in the eyes of the CDA, the cabinet can restore credibility and authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u52	This is indeed a different question than most colleagues have asked so far. Those questions were usually about whether the fines would have been handed out to others and whether or not there is class justice. In my term, I have both the question of equivalence, and he is allowed to do so, and others are not? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. The Minister also had talks about this. Apart from the excuses he has made, he has to explain and explain in this debate. So I asked questions on this particular point in my first term, because I believe that this should also be the subject of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u53	That is partly an answer to my question, because Mr Heerma says he also wants to know the answers. However, my question was actually that I apparently did not make it clear whether Mr Heerma thinks that if the Minister for Security and Justice said the same words at a press conference tomorrow, those words would still have the same authority. And if he agrees with me that that is not the case, does he recognise that that problem needs to be resolved? That's different from the conversation with the BOA Bond. It's just direct authority from this cabinet to society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u54	I think this is a relevant question. It is not just about trust here in the Chamber, but also about trust in society. That is why I have also asked the question about the minister as an example and why he should where another should not. I believe that the text and explanation should be included in the debate here, precisely because of this issue. That is why I also referred to the fact that the Minister started it by apologizing, by having the conversation with the mayors and by talking to the boas. Or that's gonna lead to another reaction tomorrow, I don't know. Because there are people who have had more negative feelings about it. It is important that this accountability and text and explanation be provided, also for society, because Corona is still there for the time being. That is what this debate is very important for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u55	I would like to come back to what Mr Heerma said about proportionality of fines and the note on the judicial document. Those who have received such a fine are advised by legal scholars to oppose the criminal order. Is Mr Heerma aware that there are many resistances at the moment? They're already being assessed or assessed by the D.A.'s office. Those people are already being brought to justice by the district attorney. Those hearings are scheduled for the next few weeks and months. Does Mr Heerma agree with me that these matters should be stopped? That they need to be canceled and revoked?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u56	I cannot judge this in individual cases, because I do not know the content of all these matters. But the fact that there must be a quick discussion with the cabinet about the law and the consequences is obvious in any case. I cannot say anything about whether individual matters should be stopped, because I do not know the content of each individual case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u57	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u58	Thank you for that, Mr. Chairman. Following on from what Mr Azarkan said, I would now like to talk about the rest of the corona policy. As Mrs Marijnissen said, yesterday it was said that it beeps and cracks when testing. That's partly because of the enormous increase in willingness to have you tested. That's actually a good signal. But this also leads to problems with the capacity of people and test materials in the coming weeks. I would like the Minister of Health to give a more explicit answer to what is going to happen in the coming weeks to deal with these problems than he did yesterday at the press conference. For example, I hear that the Red Cross is now calling on people to volunteer with the test streets to deal with this shortage of capacity for people. But what else is happening to solve the human capacity problems as quickly as possible? And at what time is there more test material available and can it go up? Because when we look at the lesson-learning report, the numbers needed this autumn are such that much more really needs to be done. I believe that Mr Marijnissen also referred to this. I'd like to know what's going on. In addition, there are also many developments in the field of very fast testing. This was also mentioned in the Lessons-Learned Report. These developments are taking place in America, but Roche also released a press release this morning that they have a test that is very reliable, not 100%, and very fast. On the one hand, I understand the feeling that something must be 100% reliable. At the same time, with these rapid tests, they could contribute to what the Cabinet is promoting, namely that they can be as free as possible, and also to the downsizing of that R. So what is the Cabinet going to do to have these kinds of quick tests quickly? It is precisely in the regional approach of as much freedom as possible that they can make a huge contribution. In doing so, it is natural that the best possible connection should be made to the testing and the source and contact research. I believe that this kind of testing, even if it is not 100% reliable, can help to combine that freedom with that lower R.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry I didn't go in the same interrupting current, but I have to come all the way from the back, so sometimes that takes a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u60	Well, it's not that far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u61	Well, it's quite a walk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u62	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u63	Private fines have just been mentioned, but of course there are also entrepreneurs who are victims. They are fined €4,000 and their case is closed. A tasting room in Soest, a store elsewhere. Those people are gonna freak out. They've lost everything. I wonder whether the contrast between the Minister's behaviour on the one hand and the suffering in society on the other is not too great by now. But I think we're talking about something else. We have a smart minister here, who is quite well informed. Perhaps this case is precisely proof that this minister knows that corona is actually over. Statistically, there's no more corona. If he had felt he was in incredible danger at that wedding, of course he wouldn't have done it at all. Then I agree in a way with what Mr Klaver has just said. Isn't this a time when we should consider the whole policy? As a question, should we not choose to make these corona measures voluntary now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u64	In my view, Mr Klaver has not just suggested that I see that he is also non-verbal that corona would be over. I don't think he'd like to be included in your question. Corona is very serious. It's not gone. There's still a threat of a second wave. I believe that almost everyone in the Chamber is aware of the concerns and risks. That is why we have a debate on it every week or every two weeks with serious questions. The suggestion that it would be over and that it would therefore be freedom of happiness, I would like to cast far from me. Mr Klaver did not say that either. His question was about something completely different. The motive to stick to it must be for everyone: the safety of yourself and the safety of someone else. I want to go a long way with that. I would like to make the assessment that I make on the basis of the facts. But I am not going along with Mr Van Haga's suggestion here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u65	I was, of course, more concerned with the fact that Mr Klaver said that there might be a review of the policy in the pipeline. He didn't say the corona crisis is over. In that respect, you must be somewhat a statistician. That is why, along with Mr Baudet, I proposed to add other expertise to the OMT a long time ago. There are now mostly virologists and laymen in those who determine what the corona crisis is. If you look at the statistics, you can conclude that it's over. We may have infinite differences of opinion on this, but I think that the people in the country, and apparently this minister too, now have the feeling of: boys, it's over; we're just going to get back to normal. And that is why again the question, which you did not just answer: let us just leave these measures intact, but make them voluntary. Stop with the fines and the criminal records.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u66	You just took Mr. Klaver in your own conclusion and now you do the same to the Minister. I don't think that's right. I'm not a statistician, but it also has to do with the logical consistency of reasoning. If Mr Klaver wants to change something at some point and Mr Van Haga wants to stop completely, that is both a change. But to create the suggestion that the same is meant is a bit the same as saying: the SP wants a certain load down and the VVD wants it up; they both want change and that's about the same. That's not right. Mr Van Haga says that we must make everything voluntary. I don't think that's wise. In the end, you must have a stick behind the door for people who knowingly risk not only themselves but others as well. But proportionality is what Mr Klaver was talking about, and that is something that we need to have a serious debate on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u67	Thank you, Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u68	I'm almost done, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u69	Well, almost. One last sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u70	When it comes to those lessons learned, there is also a tension between a regional approach and clear communication. They're both in there. I would like to know from the cabinet how it is going to deal with this tension between the two.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u71	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u72	Thank you, Mr President. First of all on behalf of the Party for the Animal Group... I apologize almost, almost Freudian! Congratulations, of course, for the wedding. We wish the Minister and his new wife all the happiness of the world. When last Friday the reports came out that the one-and-a-half meter measure at the party would not have been complied with, the first reaction at the Party for the Animals was: ghetto, so someone was in the bushes to take pictures of a private party. The Party for Animals does not like this development in the Netherlands. We have also always resisted the click line, the drones that can spy on you and yell at you: break up. So we find the context in which these facts have come out, sincerely very annoying to the Minister. That's what we want to say. We shouldn't want to live in that country. But, Mr President, then we had a discussion in the group: how do we feel about this? To begin with, the Animal Party has for a while been thinking that the Cabinet should do more to recognise that we are really asking something difficult from people with these corona rules. People are social animals. Keeping a foot and a half away isn't normal, it's not going to be normal, and that's what we have to say. It's necessary now. We're doing it to protect each other. But it's really a difficult thing. And we've all seen you talking to someone and suddenly getting a lot closer. No worries. So the question was: how do we deal with this misstep of the Minister? We came to the conclusion that we would like to be lenient. We therefore believe that this includes the fact that the cabinet is lenient towards well-intentioned citizens and benevolent entrepreneurs, i.e. a waiver of all fines. Not of the punishment of people who knowingly have sought out the borders, who have spit in the face and have said "I have corona" - that is another category - but absolve the fines of all those well-intentioned citizens and benevolent entrepreneurs who, like the minister, have just made a mistake. Of course, there's no criminal record. However, I do not really understand the questions raised by the Chamber on this matter, because that motion has already been adopted. I have co-tabled this with Mr Azarkan and others. That is an approved motion from the Chamber, so it simply needs to be properly implemented. We agreed not to have a criminal record for people who have gone to hell with the corona rules. As far as we're concerned, that would have been the end of it. But then reports came out that there was also hugging and handshaking. We could have imagined that too. That's human. Let's be gentle about that. But we do not like the way the Minister has dealt with the facts that have come out. Deny first, then admit and apologize. That can still happen; then you set your mistake right. But the minister deliberately suggested that it would only be about that one and a half meters, that he had done everything he could to prevent it and that his guests had gone a little wrong. Then it turned out it was very different. And that is where the problem lies for my group. We want to be able to rely on directors to put the complete truth on the table if necessary and not, as we have seen more often in government officials in Rutte Cabinet, to try to see what you get away with. And then there comes a new fact and you react to it. No, the Minister should have said: "This has indeed happened, I have also hugged people and given hands. That's all against the rules. I'm sorry." Then we could have lived with that, too. But covering this up, we don't like it. Nor is it what ministers should do in their position. Mr. Chairman. This debate is about the corona rules, so I would like to continue with the recognition that the Party for Animals would have to give to people that it is really difficult to comply with the corona rules. The fact that we ask people to do so is a reason for the Animal Party to keep the cabinet to a higher standard. If we ask people to do difficult things to protect others, then the cabinet must also work to ensure that people's basic health is protected. We have not heard anything about prevention in all these press conferences so far. Now research shows that in Italy poor air quality was responsible for the severity of covid cases and for 70% of deaths. What is this cabinet waiting for? Knock it off in Brabant. Knock it off with that wood sting. Cut the industrial emissions. You really can't look away from that and ask the Netherlands to continue its efforts to combat the virus. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the mink. Why should there be 150 million for the mink sector plus that compensation for all depopulations? No other entrepreneur who's gotten into his property...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u73	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u74	Oh, I see I've run out of time already.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u75	Yeah, you know that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u76	I'm also kind of involved in my final point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u77	I know. That's why. Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u78	I would like to conclude with three words. People don't understand, and there's no need. That mink farm can be shut down without paying the top prize.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u79	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u80	Apologies, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u81	I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u82	Madam President. Minister Grapperhaus's wedding has loosened up a bit. Everyone has their own thoughts about it, but honestly we first realized that we live in a strange time: rumbling over a hand on a shoulder, about people who are close to each other at a photo moment. Loving manners are suddenly sexual harassment. I get it all, and it makes perfect sense, but it keeps wringing. If you look at that fuss, first of all, we have the feeling of keeping up with the human dimension, with everyone. We do not want to deal mercilessly with anyone at a time of weakness, but we want to face every citizen, whoever he is, with kindness. Whosoever is without sin, cast the first stone. That is also why the SGP is more in favour of, especially at this later stage of the crisis, exceeding the one-and-a-half-metre rule not to meet the coupon book, but to come up with a friendly reminder first. That is also why we were of the opinion that, under these particular circumstances, offenders of the law should not be given a criminal record. The Council of State also says this in the opinion on the new law that we are about to deal with. I hope that the government really wants to take up this point. Mr President, this reflection on every citizen is, of course, different when it comes to a minister. That's not because we have some kind of class justice going the other way, and we're being lenient to everyone except a minister. That could be unfair, too. But it is because, of course, a minister has an exemplary role, as he himself points out. No matter how humanly understandable everything is and how lenient you want to be in it, the authority of the office may be compromised. Of course, the Minister is reminded of how he himself spoke against and about people who do not follow the rules. Every time you see new pictures you wonder if it was a moment or if there were several things. You can imagine that this can hinder and haunt the minister if he wants to call himself credible in order to enforce corona rules. That is why these questions, however uncomfortable, are, of course, understandable and justified. I would very much like to hear the Minister's frank response to that. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps this one example shows that we are entering a difficult phase of the crisis. Maybe at this stage you feel that we are no longer in that very acute threat, where all these measures were experienced by everyone with much more sense of urgency and support. But you're also wondering how much longer we're gonna be like this. You've postponed things and you understand that the coast isn't quite safe yet, yet you're wondering what's really going on with the perspective on that scale. That is why I think that is a very important question, which is also raised in this debate and in the wake of the last press conference. We hear about this, but the SGP Group thinks that this is a little too one-sidedly hung from the vaccine. It's kind of like that's the life buoy and the world's back to normal when the vaccine arrives. But maybe it's all disappointing with the vaccine. Perhaps we should ask and answer the question in a very different way, in the sense of: under what circumstances is the risk acceptable, so that we can scale down certain measures? Or we say that we are not going to enforce such a one-and-a-half-meter measure with the strong arm anymore, but we are going to make it a more lenient rule of behaviour. You also saw this happen with the first standards for the total number of people in a group. Later this became an advice, which also has a considerable impact. So that's all part of the perspective on scaling. I'd like to hear more from the cabinet about that. We can never forcefully eliminate all health risks. We also need to realise that the impact of the corona measures on the economy and society requires a broader consideration. We welcome the lessons learned, with all the experts who give their opinions and feed the debate. They say: pay attention, cabinet and parliament, you should not stir up fear but encourage caution, and you should move from rough measures to more specific, more precise measures. I am also very curious to see how the cabinet responds to these opinions from experts. It is very good that the cabinet is not only led by a certain number of experts who are also on the Outbreak Management Team. We get a lot of questions about that and we hear a lot of comments on it. It is very good that we have now seen that a lot of experts have been consulted and that we are also considering how we can proceed in this difficult phase of the crisis. I wish the cabinet much wisdom in that. And I would like to say to the Minister and his wife: congratulations on your marriage and all the good things for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u83	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u84	Mr. Chairman. We're all people and we all make mistakes, but we're not all the Minister of Justice and Security. He should have shown everyone what a marriage would look like in times of corona. The work of boas and other enforcers has been made impossible by his actions. And the CDA just said that there are hardly any more fines being issued, but I just got word from the country that 477 fines were issued in North Limburg, of which 222 in Venlo. So people in Venlo, watch out. Mr. Chairman. In the letter on testing, I read that our motion on giving priority to care workers is difficult because of undesirable changes in the system that are needed for this. At the same time, the Minister would like to be given advice on giving priority. Doesn't he contradict himself? And what adjustments make it so impossible to give priority? This motion was adopted unanimously and 50PLUS wants it to be implemented. As far as we are concerned, the teaching staff can then be taken immediately. So I'd like a reaction. Mr. Chairman. Today we received an email stating that you can only reach the test street in Naaldwijk nearby, if you make an appointment there, in October. Wait a month! That's crazy, isn't it? The Outbreak Management Team advises to have residents of nursing homes sampled in areas where the virus flares up. Is it possible to test the waste water at the nursing homes in those areas? Then you're sure it's in a home and you don't have to burden all those residents with a test of whether the coronavirus has been detected, because that test is definitely really difficult for people with dementia. They don't understand what's happening. So couldn't we do a trial with that? It would be a nice start to carrying out our motion. Mr. Chairman. Can employees in the neighbourhood care and home care also be tested preventively in areas where the virus is heavily present? Because they are at risk, but they can also infect a lot of people. I'd like a response to that. I would also like to hear from the Minister about the testing of people who cannot visit a test street, such as the elderly or people with disabilities. With a lack of capacity, I can imagine that this group is out of the question. Why should home care organisations not be able to take on this task? During the previous debate, the vote at the 50PLUS motion on checking ventilation systems in nursing homes stopped. We intend to put it back to the vote. There's a task force coming up now to test school ventilation systems. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, it also comes for the nursing homes. Can the Minister undertake to do so? That's gonna save another motion. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau advises that, in the event of a second wave, account should be taken of the 4 million carers that count in our country. What is the Minister going to do or else do for carers in that possible second wave? We feel that the carers are now being forgotten. Yesterday, at the press conference, we heard that the Prime Minister had another conversation with the young people. In the previous debate, he promised to talk to the elderly at the Catshuis. Is there an appointment planned yet? 50PLUS welcomes the adoption of our motion for a moment of mourning. A city like Amsterdam has even organized something. I want to know from our Prime Minister when we're gonna do that. What's the status? Has there been a date yet? A fire letter from a group of doctors suggests the idea of developing a plan to designate one or two emergency hospitals per region. In normal times they can be used as a normal hospital, but they can be converted very quickly for the care of corona patients. 50PLUS likes to hear what the Minister thinks of that idea. In the letter on testing, the Minister writes that there is a shortage of GGD doctors with a BIG registration. Last week we received a letter from a retired GGD doctor who wondered why retired GGD employees were not approached to temporarily get back to work. Can the Minister respond to that? Finally, we agree with the remark made by DENK. 50PLUS does not understand why all passengers on flights from risk areas are not tested. There's got to be some way to fix that, right? We would also like to know about the mandatory health statement at Eindhoven airport. How often do they ask for it? How often is that checked? We like to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u85	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u86	Madam President. The PVV has always opposed the new normal of that nonsense one and a half meter measure. Keeping 1.5 meters away is not normal and will never become normal as far as we are concerned. No one is infected outside and good ventilation is the magic word and not the distance between people. The sooner we get off those five feet, the better. Every time I said that in parliamentary debates over the past six months, the cabinet reacted like a wasp stabbed. Rutte and Grapperhaus thought that those 1.5 meters were so important that people and companies who didn't stick to it should get a very heavy fine. And that's what they got: big fat fines, for a citizen €390 and for a catering company for example no less than €4,000. Then came Minister Grapperhaus, the man who told the Dutch people that they're a bunch of asos when they're having a party. The man who cycled with the police in the Vondelpark in Amsterdam three girls, by him called "three chicks," taught the lesson about keeping away. The man under whose responsibility fifteen police officers in Haarlem invaded a children's party to forbid it. That Grapperhaus, as it turns out now, doesn't care about his own rules. Again, I don't care about that crazy five feet. But if you take other people's measure, if you call other people asos, if you hand out massive fines, then your authority will fall apart if you don't stick to it yourself. If you hadn't taken the measure of others, Mr. Grapperhaus, you wouldn't have heard me today, but you do now. Because for you, Mr. Grapperhaus, no voucher of €390. There's no record or record for you. You have very different rules in store for yourself, rules that do not apply to ordinary citizens. They can't buy off a criminal record with a donation to the Red Cross. What kind of elite class justice is that? What kind of injustice is that? Are you the Minister of Justice or are you the Minister of Class Justice? As far as I'm concerned, you're not getting away with this. Your credibility lies in crumbling elements. At the very least, you must ensure that all court cases against ordinary citizens, the fucking people as I just called them, who have not complied with those 1.5 metres, are immediately dismissed and all fines paid are repaid. And don't come up with excuses after you've spoken to the BOA Bond in the sense of, well, I wouldn't have been fined. The rules also apply to you and to the other people. No class justice in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Then care. I would like to start with the salaries of the care workers. In the reports about the Millions Note, the press has leaked that a new decision has been made not to increase the salary of healthcare workers, but to give a bonus again. The above us in box-K haven't even paid out the first bonus from their ivory tower. You haven't even paid out that first bonus yet! But they now think by promising some crumbs again to those hardworking people in the care, who earn four to five times less than those gentlemen and women in box K, easy and cheap to get rid of. That's a disgrace. They do, as we all know by now, give billions of Dutch euros to Italy, France, Greece and Spain, following the signature of Prime Minister Rutte in Brussels, who often give their care staff a substantial increase in their salary, but for our own people in the care, there is not a penny, I repeat, not a penny available for a structural salary increase. I think that the cabinet, which does send money to Europe but not to the people here, should simply be ashamed of itself. Come out of your lazy seat in The Hague, I would like to say, at least to Mr Rutte and Mr De Jonge. Go and help yourself for a month in the care for less than €2,000 net in the month. Then you'll be squeaking differently. Go yourself, Mr. Rutte, Mr. De Jonge, wash the old's buttocks for a month, work nights, change beds, help the sick or the elderly. I think you'd run away screaming. You wouldn't last, because you're bureaucrats and you don't have the guts to give those people the appreciation they deserve. For the French, but for the Italians and not for the Dutch who work so hard in the care. I stand by it: we will not rest until our care heroes have actually received the salary increase they deserve. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the corona approach. That doesn't cheer you up, either. The Minister of Health is working on everything, from his image to his shoes, but when it comes to the real approach to care, it is a huge mess. People need to be tested, but cannot be tested. The source and contact investigation is flawed from all sides. So as far as we're concerned, back to base. Luckily, we don't have a major corona problem right now. There are 30, 35 people in intensive care, so don't panic, but they're working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u87	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u88	Madam President. It's been six months since our country got caught up in the corona virus. That virus flooded us. We have paid a high price, socially, economically, in nursing homes, but together we managed to contain the outbreak. That's an achievement for society as a whole. It is a good thing that the cabinet has learned lessons from the approach in the spring, because crisis policy is made with fall and rise. It is good that the cabinet continues to reflect on its own actions. It would be a good thing to keep asking yourself three questions. One. Are we taking the right measures? Are they proportional? Two. Do we have the dilemmas sharp? Three. How do we include citizens in the decision-making process? The first is good, proportionate measures. It is good that the cabinet opts for a regional approach and limits risks where it can, but it also calls for proportionality. In protecting public health, we must not lose sight of the freedom of people and human dignity. We should not go beyond micromanagement from The Hague, but we should return decision-making to the local level as much as possible, with good democratic control. The cabinet demands a great deal of responsibility from the citizen. After all, we have to do it together. At the same time, we all know how difficult it is to always keep our distance, especially from our neighbors. The photos taken from Minister Grapperhaus' wedding party show that too. I also congratulate him, of course, on that wedding party. There is a great deal of fuss about that now, and I do not want him to do so, but it is understandable that this discussion has flared up. In that light, I ask the Cabinet whether it is true that enforcers are reluctant to impose a fine. Colleague Heerma referred to this. But if, in the extreme case, it leads to a fine, a judicial note is a very substantial measure, especially if you feel that this can haunt you for a long time to come. Is the Cabinet prepared to reconsider this? An important goal of the cabinet is to protect vulnerable people. It is good that more testing is being carried out in nursing homes in case of local outbreaks and that preventive protective equipment may be used. But would it not be good to make preventive use of protective equipment possible also in disability care, ggz and home care? Can the cabinet guarantee that there are sufficient resources? The test capacity remains a constant concern. We really need to do everything we can to increase the capacity of the GGDs and laboratories, especially when the crowds increase in the autumn. What can we learn from Denmark, where things seem to be going well? People in vital sectors, such as care and education, deserve special attention because they are desperately needed. That's what we noticed this spring. Does the government want to give the GGDs the opportunity to give priority, where possible, to educational staff and people in vital sectors, such as care? If that's possible, can we give the G.D.D.s room for that, too? Then there is my second point. We need to focus on the dilemmas. We know that many dilemmas lie behind the decisions of the cabinet, but it would be good to open up these dilemmas as well. This shows that the cabinet does not go ice over one night, and that can increase the support for the measures. Earlier, a motion of my hand was adopted that said, "Let us give you broader advice, not only by an OMT but also by an Impact Management Team." That has been started with the planning agencies and the ESC, but frankly I do not see much of that in the progress notes anymore, and I really regret that. It is good that there have been expert tables, but I hope that the cabinet will continue to involve other experts in the decision-making process. Not to draw lessons once, but to continuously evaluate learning. I'd like a response to that point. Finally, Madam President. People need to be included in the decision-making process. To maintain support, you have to include people in the choices you make. That is why I make the following appeal to the cabinet: communicate clearly about the choices you make and the reasons behind them; not only look at what is needed to contain the virus, but also look at the impact it has on society and explain how you make your assessments. Mr. Chairman. We do not know how long this situation will last, but people do like to see light at the end of the tunnel. How are we going to live with the virus if the vaccine takes longer to wait? It would be good if the cabinet could offer some perspective in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u89	Mrs Ouwehand, this is your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u90	I would like to ask a question on that last point. We know the Christian Union as a party that does not look away from the need to pursue good prevention policies, so that you help people to have a healthy lifestyle. The Secretary of State for the Christian Union House is, in my view, very much in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u91	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u92	But it just stays quiet. The cabinet has said in response to those 1,600 scientists who said "come on, you have to work on prevention now": because of corona we come in the autumn with a look at.. not a firm plan of approach, but a contour note. Yeah, guys! If we have to fight this virus, you have to act now to make sure that we tackle that unhealthy living environment, so that we offer people a better chance of good health and so that they are also more resistant to that virus. Does the Christian Union allow the cabinet to move forward with this necessary approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u93	No, because I really think prevention is a very important priority. There is a prevention note and there is prevention policy, but the situation now certainly shows that health is extremely important. When it comes to a healthy environment, I always wait for the bridge to the minks and intensive livestock farming. I've been waiting for that. But I would like to stress the need. Prevention is extremely important. If the cabinet were to dive behind a contour note and say "we pushed it in the long run" we would be shoulder-to-shoulder on that side of the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u95	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u96	I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u97	Mr. Chairman. If we look at the figures, we have to conclude that the corona crisis is over. The corona mortality rate is almost zero and the ic's are empty, but the cabinet is cramped by the stricter measures. The means has become the goal. That's how we ended up in a dystopian society, in which the social, emotional, cultural and economic damage is enormous. Whole sectors are going bankrupt. Restaurants are about to fall. The event business is breaking down. The cultural sector is imploding. Discotheques are empty. Students receive inferior education and sit lonely in their room staring at their laptop. The collective damage to society is inconceivable. I would therefore call on the cabinet to review the policy. Let us make the measures voluntary, as happens in Sweden. I can't imagine 80-plussers suffering from underlying suffering would mind not going to a house party for a while. And let's stop handing out fines and criminal records right now. It is no longer possible to sell that for example tasting-café De Kuil in Soest should close and get €4,000 fine, while even Minister Grapperhaus beat the rules. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to tonight's king number, Minister Grapperhaus' wedding. Of course, it's not about how big the offense was. It's not about whether the intention was to break the law. Prime Minister Rutte immediately stated that the Minister's credibility was not at stake. That is striking, because it is indeed about the credibility of the Minister of Justice and Security, and nothing else. A minister, together with his secretary of state, violates his own rules by acting perfectly normal. He then said that it was only a single moment, and it later turned out that this was not true. It doesn't help that he called people who didn't stick to the 1.5 meters for asos. As far as I am concerned, credibility is at stake. But something positive could come out of it. Because I understand perfectly well that you don't want to stay five feet away at a wedding or a funeral. Apparently, so does this minister, and rightly so. I also understand that you don't want all the guests at your wedding, your party or your funeral to get a fine and a criminal record. Apparently, so does the Minister, and rightly so. But the contrast between the Minister's behaviour and the suffering of the people affected by the measures, fines and consequences is too great. So let us make the measures voluntary as soon as possible, so that the enormous damage to society does not get any worse. And reverse the fines already imposed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u98	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u99	Mr. Chairman. It feels extremely uncomfortable to stand here and have a debate about this minister's wedding. A wedding is one of the most beautiful moments of your life. I would therefore like to congratulate the Minister most warmly. It has also been said by more colleagues: nothing human is strange to politicians. We must not live in a society in which we are constantly taking the measure of the behavior we are showing each other. We all make mistakes. I too, looking back on the past few months, will not always have followed exactly that 1.5 meter. Sometimes it was my own fault. Sometimes other people came closer than you'd like. Yet today we are talking about this minister and his credibility. The question is: because he has broken the rules that he himself has made, because he has used such firm words towards other people in society, how much authority can he say to the Netherlands next time it is necessary: do you follow the rules? I'm not happy to ask that question. We shouldn't be asking that question at all. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Maar dat is wel wat er nu aan de orde is.]] It should lead us to something else, which has already been the subject of the debate in the course of the debate: the content. For the record, because some people already misinterpreted me: I am in favour of keeping a distance of 1.5 meters from each other. I am in favour of the measures announced earlier by this cabinet. The question I have with you is whether you should criminalize it, whether you should get a record on your criminal record if you make the mistake, if you should get such a high fine. We should not comply with those rules because of the fine or because of this minister or the Prime Minister or whatever, but because we want to keep each other healthy in this country. I think it calls for an adjustment of the policy. If the cabinet is not prepared to do so, then we have a big problem. It will be more difficult for this minister to be credible. This minister's strategy was to use big words, to put people like asos. If you want to keep doing that, you can't. The cabinet must opt for a different strategy. Otherwise, I see a major credibility problem for this minister and I do not see how he should proceed. Mr. Chairman. We would have a debate on corona and I would now like to move on quickly, because that is where the problems we still have are. The test policy is still not in order, while we know that "testing, testing, testing" is the only way to keep our society healthy at the moment, where we have no vaccine and no treatment method. There were shortages in the labs, while we were promised more capacity. There are maximum scenarios that are expected for this autumn, but the maximum scenarios that are expected for the present are already not being met. Preventive testing in nursing homes is a very nice step, which we're very happy with a few weeks ago. We asked for it in this Chamber a few weeks ago, but can we do it now? Is there enough capacity at these GGDs? And then priority is given to vital professions. You could say, "Why does anyone else deserve it more than anyone else?" But the impact that it has when a teacher has to wait too long for his results, affects society as a whole. It affects all those parents who have to take care of their kids because they can't go to school for a week. It hits those kids who can't take lessons. That is why I find it too easy to say that priority is difficult to organise. Look, I don't like it either. I prefer to have so much capacity that it doesn't matter what your profession is, but if it isn't there and we have to divide into scarcity, then priority must be given to those vital professions. Then the United States and the deal with Philips who ricocheted off, maybe a little weird in this debate. I find the position of the United States incomprehensible, but perhaps it also offers an opportunity. In the Netherlands we may also need ventilators, but certainly not 30,000, but also in the rest of the world. I would like to ask the cabinet to talk to Philips to see if that released capacity can be used to fill any shortfalls in the Netherlands or the European Union, but also whether we can make these devices available to developing countries. Finally. I have great concerns about the supplies in this country. I do not have sufficient control over the question of whether there are sufficient protective equipment. I don't have enough control over whether we have enough medication. For how long do we have propofol and midazolam in stock here in the Netherlands, so we can get to them directly? How many people can we treat with that? How many ventilators are there right now? All these questions about how to prepare for that second wave, which we thought for a moment, but which seems to be being postponed now, must be answered. Finally, one cry of hearts: I want honest answers. This Chamber, we asked for preventive tests at Schiphol Airport and afterwards it turned out that we were asking for something that couldn't, because those tests weren't there. If something can't be done, I'd rather hear it before I have to find out later on through the media.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u100	I think I read something from Mr Klaver in the media a few days ago about America and Philips. In my view, he raises the question of whether we ourselves have enough supplies, but also of an earlier plan by the government to make things that we have too much available to Africa, for example, as a result of the AIV. Is Mr Klaver now saying that Philips needs to be talked to because they need to be bought, or is he saying that at least it should be discussed to see whether we need them ourselves or whether we can make them available to others who need them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u101	That's right. At that time, Minister Bruins, the cabinet said that we are simply buying what is on the market. And if we have too much, there are always other countries that can use it. Look, it's my fear that that production capacity will be reduced for 30,000 devices, when we know there's still a huge demand worldwide. Those orders will not just come from developing countries if the money is not there. So what I'm asking the cabinet to do is to start the conversation. You really don't have to buy them all up, but get on the phone and see how we can get them available to those countries. After all, we in the Netherlands will only be really safe if we also ensure that care is improved in all those countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u102	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u103	Mr. Chairman. Keep five feet away and don't hug people, we've agreed on these and more basic rules. Rules we all have to abide by. But almost everyone has noticed in recent months that it is quite difficult to always observe those rules; a human error has been made quickly. Minister Grapperhaus has now experienced this himself. This is problematic in this case, as he, as Minister of Justice, has always pointed out, and often in a rather firm language, the basic rules and the importance of compliance. The photos of his wedding therefore led to indignation and questions. Disgrace at the fact that the Minister did have a wedding, while many people had to postpone it. Annoyance because the minister embraces people while others have not been able to hug their own parents for six months. His apologies were therefore necessary and entirely justified. But this also raises the question of how boas can now do their job well on the street. This is particularly important in a situation where the virus is increasing again and we need to attract the reins again. My question to the Minister is therefore how he will restore his authority, with the boas, the police and all the Dutch. How does he intend to enforce the basic rules in a real way? Does he agree with me that fines should only be the final word in the event of a gross violation of the rules? Mr. Chairman. Summer's over, and without a vaccine, we won't be virus-free in the short term. Many people therefore wonder what their lives are going to be like in the coming period. How do we find a good balance between security and freedom? For D66 it is important that the cabinet adjusts the corona approach and offers perspective if facts or new insights give rise to this. The challenge for the coming autumn and winter is: how can this approach be more predictable? The cabinet has now announced a more regional approach and a phase-in of measures. In addition, there are three stages: vigilant, worrying and serious. That raises a number of questions for my group. When does a phase become worrying or serious? What measures are applicable per phase and per sector? Is the coronadashboard that we know now the right way to inform Dutch about what stage we are in? That is why the question to the Minister for Health: can there be a new road map? Mr. Chairman. Providing perspective is what we need to do in the near future. And offering perspective can't be without a good test policy. Because good testing policy gives confidence. Trust that we know where the virus is. Trust that we can teach safely. Trust that we can safely visit the nursing home. However, the test policy is still not in order. I am concerned about the social impact if children cannot receive education because a teacher has to wait for a test result. Why can teachers, as well as caregivers, still not be given priority? Where exactly is the bottleneck for a quick rash, within 48 hours? We must also look at neighbouring countries. Many neighbouring countries test much more, even in people without complaints, but here the stuff seems to run out. How is that possible, I ask the Minister. When can all Dutch people be tested without complaints? Because today's debate on the app did not reassure me on that point. Following Mr Heerma, I call on the cabinet to also look at quick tests. A rapid test has now been approved in the United States, giving results within 15 minutes. Such a rapid test may provide a perspective for heavily affected sectors such as the cultural and event sectors. I ask the Minister, but also the Prime Minister, if they are prepared to give us something of reliability if it will give us more space for society. Mr. Chairman. Finally, on testing policy. The European Commission already advised in the summer to expand the flu shot, in order to ensure that there are fewer people with complaints in winter. My question to the cabinet is whether this extension of the flu shot has already started. Finally, Mr President. Together with Mr Marijnissen and others, I have often drawn attention to the people who work in home care and the nursing home in recent debates. The extension of the policy for nursing homes is a good thing. By testing more often and using preventive protective equipment, we can better protect people there. But I do not want to conclude, in a few months' time, that we have forgotten other sectors of care. Therefore, my question to the Minister is whether he intends to apply this new approach, the more frequent testing and preventive use of protective equipment, to home care, disability care and mental health care. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u104	Thank you. I see Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u105	I am very much in agreement with what Mr Jetten says, particularly with regard to schools and education. The schools in the north are now open for a few weeks and the first infections are known. Does Mr Jetten agree with me that we should now agree that vital professions, including teachers, can first be tested? The impact is huge: teacher colds, class week home. Does he agree with me that we should help the schools if there are many infections in an area, such as preventive testing, to keep themselves safe, to keep the teachers safe, to keep the teachers healthy, to keep the children healthy and to keep the parents of those children healthy? In other words, the cabinet came into play late in helping the schools, but there really needs to be a scoop on top.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u106	I deliberately took out the teacher's example. I think we can all call it vital professions that people in that profession think should be given priority in testing. But what really makes teachers in primary education really different for me is that if they fall out, children are sent home and there can be no teaching, but often dozens of parents have to find a solution for the care of their children and perhaps they themselves cannot get to work. So the social disruption that involves too little testing or too little pace in the testing of teachers must be taken into account very carefully. In my opinion, we have often asked the Cabinet as a Chamber over the past few months: can you test crucial appeals, particularly teachers, more quickly? In that case we always got the answer: we don't really have to, because we insist that all Dutch can be tested within 24 or 48 hours and get that result. I have to say again that this is not the case in all places in the Netherlands. This means that my group is now more inclined to ask the cabinet: can you not now make an exception for these crucial professions? That is why I pay particular attention to education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u107	Mr Jetten said that testing policy was not in order. I think he means the test capacity. It is of course interesting to talk about vital professions that protect others, such as teachers. Plus, you're in trouble, and what are you gonna do with those students? The practice is that we are dealing with a minister who said here: on 1 June we can test 30,000 people a day. Now we test an average of 22,000 people, and then the minister says, "I'm walking in queues and I'm asking not to be able to test everyone." What's the point of having a test policy if we don't have the test capacity in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u108	I think it's both true. It starts with the test capacity. It's gotta be in order. There must be sufficient capacity to test all people who want to be tested. In addition, I think it is important that, if you find that the test capacity is not yet sufficient, you set up policies to steer who you want to give priority to and who might not. That is my question to the Minister, who was also in my own contribution. What is the reason why this test capacity is not working yet, why it is not possible to test everyone and provide the results within 48 hours? And if that situation continues, under what conditions and circumstances would you like to give crucial professions temporary priority?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u109	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u110	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u111	I now give the floor to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Quod licet Iovi, non licet bovi. Whatever applies to Jupiter doesn't apply to a cow. Or, quite frankly, what the minister does like, ordinary citizens are not allowed to do. This is undoubtedly the regentistic trait of Minister Grapperhaus. The laws he imposes on others do not apply to him, not to his family, not to his friends and not to his secretary of state. If he still violates them, he gets no fine and no criminal record, which other Dutch do. He's just saying he's sorry and paying twice to the Red Cross. The minister as chief corona enforcer should of course have postponed his wedding party, but apparently that thought didn't occur to him. The minister allowed his feast to continue, even though it would cost him his ministry, his reputation and his credibility. And that is precisely when the Minister's measures make it impossible for others to visit their parents in a nursing home or attend the funeral of a loved one. Our Prime Minister even got the world press when it became known that he could not visit his mother, who was dying, because of corona. "Minister" means "servant." There's a certain sacrifice in that. Prime Minister Rutte understands that; Minister Grapperhaus unfortunately does not understand that. That's the real problem. Apparently, there are different rules for a party of the minister in Bloemendaal than for ordinary Dutchmen. Thousands of people lose their jobs and entrepreneurs see their life's work crumble, while the minister rides his bike through the Vondelpark, encourages boas to enforce his laws and makes offenders for asos. He's the chief enforcer, and everyone has to follow the rules, otherwise a fine and a criminal record will inevitably follow. But when he himself made a mistake, he deceived everyone, even Prime Minister Rutte, by not confessing everything and lying about what really happened. The photos speak volumes. The least the government can do now is come up with a general pardon for all imposed corona fines, until the Minister resigns. Finally, we would also like to have an answer to the distress calls of GGD staff who let us know that it is chaos and that they are far from achieving the number of tests promised. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u113	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u114	Mr. Chairman. Let me also start with the wedding, the hug and the things that have taken place there and where we have seen the footage of. Of course, that's just painful. It has an impact on authority and credibility, however much I regret it. It's a damper when you work in healthcare, you see this now and you've called many times: nice, that applause, and fantastic such a salary increase, but do me the greatest favor by keeping your distance and sticking to the rules. It's a damper for boas who maintain. Every time something happens, people have an argument and they yell at them, "Yes, but what about that one? You weren't at the demonstration on Dam Square. And where were you at the Minister's wedding? Don't bother me." And it is also a damper for catering entrepreneurs who organize weddings and there all the time, while people want to love each other, saying: that should not be; keep 1.5 meters away. So that's painful. The Minister himself will feel the same way. Maybe he's thinking now: if only I had postponed it, or if only a boa had been riding by and fined me at the time, because then we wouldn't have the idea that one would get a fine and the other wouldn't. The question is, therefore, how does the Minister intend to regain that credibility from those who now doubt it and who now look at him in a different way when he makes the proper warnings and calls for compliance. We've discussed it before: if you go wrong now and get a fine, you'll get a note. It's not gonna count if you apply for a statement about the behavior, but yes, that note is there. The question is whether it really can't leave. Can we not leave it for a few months, for example, so that you can quickly see if you are dealing with someone who has gone wrong once and is being difficult, or if it is someone who does this every week and is deliberately looking for problems? Or can we erase it after a few months? We are talking here about behaviour which is quite normal in itself, but which is equally undesirable in the special and exceptional time of today. Then it's weird if it stays in place when the virus is under control, there's a vaccine and normal behavior is no longer unwanted. That's got to be something. Mr. Chairman. We're in a macabre dance with the virus; that's what I used to call it before the recess. We're in the middle of that. Many people in the Netherlands had a more carefree attitude for a few weeks and we immediately saw a significant increase. Then, fortunately, there was the shock in all of us, we went better by the rules and the rise has flattened. The increase is now stable for a few weeks, but it is at a higher level. But today, unfortunately, we are seeing a significant increase again. We shouldn't think "yes, we can do it again; the ic is not so bad" and become carefree, because then it rises again and it gets out of hand. We all have a moment when we think, "Oh, this is a little too close." Today, I have heard all my fellow Members mention that they have had such a moment of their own. From the speaker after me I was able to see that he had those moments. I just didn't hear anyone say he or she got a fine for it. Neither do I. I didn't shake hands and give no hugs outside of my family, but I probably didn't manage the 1.5 meters either. Now it's true that if you stick to the rules all week, which I think is pretty good to do, you can invite friends over the weekend, have a beer, go on the terrace and go into the cinema. There are also theatre performances, all different and all limited, but we can all continue to give that reward if we stick to the rules for the rest of the week. However, if we slacken for a few weeks, we can only sit from the sofa to the chair and from the front door to the back door or in the middle of the room, because then the walls will come towards you automatically. Hold on and continue until there is a vaccine! Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the test capacity. When I look at how many tests have been taken in the past week, I see a huge increase. Looks like there's a lot of scaling up. Also in my own environment I hear people now saying that they are getting a test based on criteria that were unthinkable for a few months: a colleague is sick; I wasn't really around him, but I still want a test. Come by, let's test it just to be safe, then that's the answer. If you were sick a few months ago and said that you were in a café in a ski area that was established as a fireplace, it was said: "Stay home, because if you have it, we can't do anything for you. Wait till it's over or until you get really sick, we'll check in the hospital to see if you have it, should you get there unexpectedly." So I see great progress there, but I also see that every offer creates its own need and that we now need to test even more. To the people at the GGD's I have to say that I think they are working hard to take the tests and generate more capacity. But then there's another bottleneck. My question to the cabinet is then where it is. When coordinating, scaling up, the employees, the materials, the resources? Do other countries have the same deficits? Are there any other ways to buy it? Are there any alternative quick tests? Can we perhaps compensate for the lower reliability of the test itself by saying, if that is to be paid, that if we take five and in four out of five cases the result is the same, we can rely on it? Is that how it works? Or should an opinion be sought on this? Finally. At the lessons learned I notice that the incalculable factor is constantly man. The anecdote that was in it was about Antwerp. The intended effect of a measure is not always what happens. There are infections at the gym, so we close the gym. As a result, people go farther out of the neighborhood to still work out. The latter is decisive and must also be a guiding factor in the continuation of policy-making. We should not think: we make the rule here and then the country folds to it. We sometimes learn that a roll of tape that allows you to apply one-and-a-half-metre separation to the floor can be more effective than a whole story and a sermon to convince people to keep their distance. Mr. Chairman. I'll tame my personal fascination with behavioral therapy, because I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u115	Mr Dijkhoff spoke about the tests and the question of whether there is enough capacity for testing. In the previous debate, the VVD spokesperson literally used the word "unaccountable." He found it irresponsible what happened at the GGD's in Rotterdam-Rijnmond and Amsterdam and that the source and contact research and testing could not be completed in such a way as we would like. How does Mr Dijkhoff look at such a press conference yesterday, where Minister De Jonge says it is squeaking and cracking for the short term when it comes to testing? It's not in order. There are concerns. Perhaps we should go back to the discussion about who should be first, when it has been said that we want to test everyone with complaints. How does Mr Dijkhoff view this in the knowledge that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats already considered the situation in the previous debate to be irresponsible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u116	It is also irresponsible for you to say that we are not doing any more source and contact research, because we cannot handle it. Priority one is: more capacity. That is why my question to the cabinet is: where is the bottleneck and can we fix it? But we also need to be realistic. We must not insist on wishing for the ideal solution if it is not possible. My ideal solution is, to make it concrete, not to give teachers priority, but to have enough capacity, so that it doesn't matter what profession you have and you can be tested within the time limits we want. But if reality is that it doesn't succeed or temporarily fails, you have to go to non-ideal solutions and consider giving a teacher priority. It's already annoying if you have to wait longer for a test, but it's also very annoying if you can't go to work because the teacher of your children has to wait for a test. I think we should distinguish between what we want and what we can do. Let someone drop a sting, then it's culpable if we're not there yet. Then you just have to name it. If it depends on something not being there yet, which is very annoying, you have to go to plan B. Then it may also be that we can test people who do not have complaints later or that you should take steps back to the policy we had first. Then it was true: if you don't have any complaints yourself, but if someone you've been around and who's positive calls you, you should stay home. We don't want any or as few quarantines as possible. We want to test as soon as possible. But if that capacity isn't there yet, you have to make choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u117	Mr Dijkhoff is now doing, I think, as if it were all very unclear what should happen and whether we are being attacked a little by the need for a lot of tests. But that was completely known, wasn't it? Wasn't it completely known that we need a lot of tests? Mr Dijkhoff says: then you must have a plan B. But that's the problem. Yesterday in the press conference, a specific question was asked about Plan B and the answer was: there is no such thing. This must lead to more concern than Mr Dijkhoff has shown here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u118	Yeah, but that's a little perception. Apparently, my non-verbal communication doesn't seem concerned. Then I'll do something about it. I'm just asking for plan B and the reason for the bottleneck because the answer wasn't there. Otherwise, I wouldn't have asked. Only I'm making a distinction between what was clear. That's why I want to know what happened. There are also laboratories that indicate that they have people who can do the tests. But is it a logistical problem? Is this about materials? I'm not an expert on it. You need sticks, you need fluids, you need devices, people who operate them, people who call. Again, I'm not an expert, but I know about this. Where's the bottleneck? Can we fix that and when? In the meantime, we must be realistic that this is not yet in order. Then I ask: how are we going to distribute scarce capacity in a sensible way? And is there perhaps a need for priority?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u119	Thank you. Mr Wilders has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u120	What kind of country are we living in? Are we going to talk about Mr. Grapperhaus who doesn't follow the rules? This afternoon Mr Rutte had a meeting with the extremists of Black Lives Matter and Kick Out Black Piet. What kind of country are we living in? President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council and the President of the Commission. I thought that's usually about a pack of buttermilk, or it's still sustainable, but it's about the minister now. That is also the question I have to ask the colleague of the VVD. You say it is important whether the people in the country still have faith in this minister. But do you, does the VVD Group have any faith in this minister? Do you still have faith in a minister who says that anyone who doesn't follow the rules is an aso, who almost lets children's parties be robbed by a police-like police force, who girls he called "chickies" in Amsterdam and the Vondelpark lectures? My point is hypocrisy. He'll never have authority again unless you, as a coalition, give him another wallet. He will never have the authority again, no matter how many times he will speak with the boa-bond or whatever it is called. He'll never have the authority again. You will either have to put it somewhere else or you will have to abolish all the fines or my proposal will have to throw out 1.5 metres. That minister will never have authority again. Do you still have confidence that he can regain that with the Dutch but also with your group?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u121	I indicated in the beginning: this has an impact on authority and credibility, not a positive one. There will be Dutch people tomorrow on whom, when they see the minister performing on this dossier, there will be no impact and there will be quite a lot of Dutch people thinking: yes, and what about that wedding? There will also be Dutch who are even more critical. For me, the question is: do I find the Minister credible? Yes. I also said outside in front of the camera that this might have something to do with the fact that I work a lot with him and know him. If you don't know him that well, I imagine you have another weighting of that credibility. That's why it's not politically enough that I think he's credible. This includes: am I confident that he can do his job properly? And am I confident that he will be able to regain credibility with the people who have suffered a dent? I answer yes to both questions. That also answers Mr Wilders' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u122	Thank you. Mr Baudet has the floor on behalf of FvD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u123	Madam President, colleagues. I've been thinking over the last few days what it actually means what we've seen. In general terms, there is talk of a hug and non-compliance. But if you take a quiet look at the photos, you can see that a newlywed man holds all the good for that of course his mother-in-law, a very old lady, to one arm, and two children, on which we have read that they have not had corona long before marriage, on the other hand. That is, in itself, a very normal picture. Some people have a bad relationship with their mother-in-law, but in general we wouldn't be able to assume that someone, if he actually believes that the corona virus would be so extremely dangerous, would want to put his mother-in-law at risk in that way. That's very inconvenient. Minister Grapperhaus would have been completely insane and maniac to create risks for people of age, if he actually believed that the corona virus would be so very dangerous. It's not just an accident not to keep the distance, no, it's just an intimate meeting. Apparently, the Minister considers that risk acceptable. I also think it is acceptable. I also think the corona virus is far less dangerous than we thought at first. We can also scientifically support this on the basis of the people who end up in intensive care and people who die. It's much less dangerous. That's a good thing. It's far less dangerous than we thought at first. The Minister does not therefore believe that the draconian rules we now have in the Netherlands are still necessary. That's the hook in the discussion for me. It's a new point that I haven't actually heard anyone make: he doesn't believe it anymore! So what can we conclude? If even the cabinet no longer believes that it is necessary to put pressure on society in this way, to scare people apart with dogs, and so on, let us stop. Tonight, let us stop at once with all these absurd measures and the one-and-a-half-metre society. Together with Mr Van Haga, I will be tabling a motion for a resolution on this matter. There's no need. We are all prepared to accept very far-reaching measures, and I too, six months ago, should it actually be the case that people spontaneously drop dead in the street, with thousands, tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands dead. Of course, then we understand. But that's not the case with this corona virus. It's a vicious flu virus, it's a bloody mean virus if you get it. You suffer from it for a week and a very, very, very limited group in the Netherlands and in other countries may actually be at risk, as is the case with other flu viruses. We know that now. We can see that. The Minister also knows that. That's what the pictures show me. He too doesn't believe in it anymore. Let's take off the masks, let's stop this play. Let's end the corona measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u124	The last question, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u125	If Mr Baudet believes that Mr Grapperhaus, Mr Rutte, Mr De Jonge and Mrs Van Ark know that the virus is not dangerous, why are those rules imposed? Why is there such a policy? Why is a sacrifice demanded of the people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u126	That's a very good question. I don't know. I mean, I can't look into their heads, but I think there are some reasons. The first is path dependence. If you've been involved in something for a while, for example mass immigration, it's hard to say, "God, we've been wrong all along." Certainly politicians seem to have been trained to never admit their own mistakes or never adjust their insights. That could be an explanation. The other explanation is that, of course, these people, members of the party cartel, are also very dependent on the international context. So they're not very trained to think independently, but they're mainly focused on: "What happens in other countries? What does Merkel do? Oh, so do we!" That's very much the reflex. A third explanation could lie in the fact that, of course, they are now considered very important by all these press conferences and so on. So it has a certain attractiveness to so... A situation of national need, a crisis, that's every child's dream, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u127	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u128	I give the floor to the Minister for Justice and Security as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u129	Mr. Chairman. It may not be customary for me to open the debate in the presence of the Prime Minister, but I would like to do so, because I think I have to answer first. I will. After that, I will also discuss another, genuinely substantive discussion that has been extensive, about fines and consequences. Mr. Chairman. During my marriage, compliance with the corona measures went wrong. I have expressed my regret about this, and I am doing so again today to the Members of your Chamber. I'm sorry I made a mistake. As a minister, I should set an example. All the preparations for my marriage were aimed at making it a safe and beautiful day. I called off the original setup. I wanted to do it smaller and clearer. Then I went to the location to see for myself what the situation was like there. I thought everything could be safe and within the corona rules. And yet I've misjudged it. People have gotten too close. I've also misjudged myself. When I saw pictures back, both last week and yesterday and today, I realized: I certainly didn't do it right myself. I got carried away in the events of that day. It could be that more of those photos will be made public in the next few days. They'll be painfully confirming that image. As I said in my earlier statement and again today, it did not go well that day with regard to the corona measures. ... Mr. Chairman. We talked about it at home. We said to each other, "If only the two of us had done it together." That's what I wanted to say. Mr. Chairman. Most people in society adhere to the measures. And I would like to make it quite clear that my shortcomings during my marriage should not interfere with the importance of these measures, no matter how the debate continues tonight. And let me make one thing clear: I fully support the corona policy that we have agreed and implemented with this cabinet. That is what I will continue to say in the future. I will also ensure, in the constitutional function I have, that Corona policy is properly implemented in society. That is a requirement to protect the weak in our society. But then there is the right question: can I still do that with credibility and authority? Mr. Chairman. Many of you have actually asked very clearly for this. Explain that. Are you still credible? Do you still have authority? I say to that, although, of course, the final judgment is not for me, but for you and your members, Mr President, yes. I have helped shape this corona policy from the very beginning and monitored enforcement. I also went through the country to see how things were going, to see how enforcement is going and what it means for people, for boas and police officers. I also had an intrusive conversation in May with a number of boas who had been in great trouble in Velsen, in a situation where it was about maintaining corona measures but also other things. Not only did I focus on that repressive side, but I also started talking about taking care of homeless people. That may seem to be far from my portfolio, but that was also where security was at stake for those people at that time. In that sense, I have really participated actively in the Corona Policy, which I still support, and I will continue to do so. Last week I spoke to the mayors in the Security Council or the Security Chairmen and I also presented it to them. I asked if they still see my credibility. I have discussed it with the corps leadership, which is very important, and in recent days also with the unions, the police unions. I would also like to emphasise that. It is not just a matter of the boa-bonds, two associations of the enforcers, who are in the front line with very few means of violence, just a little bit. We'll talk to each other, too. It's not a question of taking a lap and hearing: is the trust still there? We agreed yesterday that next Thursday we should continue to talk about what I want to talk to you about: the policy of fines and their consequences. There are also critical sounds about that in the corner of the police, the police department, the unions and the boas. A little over 100 years ago, Abraham Kuyper said in your parliament, "The penitentiary adorns the man." But the SDAP replied, "As long as he doesn't show off." That is how I see it when I dig out and get my authority completely again: the penitentiary, but that is not the same as "everything has been forgotten or forgiven." Now I am going to work with all these parties and, by the way, also to show the people in the country that the corona policy is still really important to get that life-threatening virus out there. Then the example function. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen also asked about this. Indeed, it is primarily aimed at demonstrating the importance of protecting the weaker in our society, but also at showing that it is not just about repression, but that we must also look at the social effects from the point of view of justice and security. As a cabinet, we have a joint responsibility. I'm not gonna be good about it: I've failed in that. I would like to explain something to Mrs Ouwehand and others who asked for it, because she used an ugly word, the word'muffled away', which could even be regarded as an understatement. I'd like to explain that anyway. Last week, when I was first confronted with those pictures in a magazine, I gave an initial response to the Council's failure to act. I went straight to the Ministry to check that out with myself. I've issued the statement that first went to your room as a letter. Yeah, what do you do after that? I have played the film again in the last few days, realizing that there would certainly be a moment when I would answer to you. I have also spoken to other guests and I have had to conclude that it was more and perhaps not good, to put it this way, that day with the implementation of the measures and that I have also been more involved in a number of points. And that it's already been said by a few, 'cause it's a painful lesson, because you can still organize it with all kinds of placements and I know what kind of things, but you don't really realize how that goes in the emotion at all. Mrs Marijnissen, you asked me: how do you look back on it? We said at home, "If only we'd done it together." Not because of all this commotion, but because we are confronted with it I am at least not sure that that was not good to do, not even with such a small company. Mr. Chairman. Your Chamber has also asked me about my comment, which Mr Wilders said: you are someone who takes the measure of others. I would also like to explain that here. On 24 March, in a brief press release, I said that at the end of the Security Council it was antisocial, in the urgent situation we had at the time, that people consciously threw a big party against the corona measures in their homes, knowing that they would not follow the measures and would really put them at risk. That is something I would still say in that urgent situation, which I hope we will not get back. I have already quoted Mr Asscher at two press conferences last summer, when I said, if I may call it that, the summer shift, that we should be very careful about slackening behavior. But I did do so in a context of complimenting the Dutch. If you look at the whole series of press releases after the Safety Council, which I have had about twenty weeks every Monday, you will see that I have said, since 31 March, that we are doing well and we are doing well. The way I still see it in the whole base is that the Netherlands and the Dutch have done a good job with these corona measures. The fact that I appointed a small group as antisocial in March in this urgent situation because they deliberately do not comply with it is right and I still support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u130	I would first like to give you the opportunity to answer all the questions that have been asked and then I will go to the interruptions. I'll keep track of exactly who's next. Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u131	Mr. Chairman. I come to the many questions that have been asked about the significance of the fines for the so-called 'vog' provision, the declaration of undefeated behaviour, and thus access to the labour market. When imposing fines, the policy has always been: first to address, then to warn and then to fine. You will also find this in the circular of the Public Prosecutor's Office. That is why there is also a difference in the number of fines that Mr Klaver has just quoted, of 23 000 and the number I see coming to the CJIB. That's 17,000. There is the first filter between the Public Prosecutor's Office of Fines, which the Public Prosecutor's Office says is that we do not think that this three-stroke has been properly followed. That can always happen. And that's another point. It's supposed to be an intentional violation. So when assessing the fines by the Public Prosecutor's Office, it looks at whether there have been any people who have been very consciously, after being warned and threatened, yet said: I do not care. Those are actually the people for whom Mrs Marijnissen used a certain qualifying word. We are going to talk about this later, but she said that you should not exempt it 100% from a new fine. For example, we are talking about people who consciously draw a long nose towards the boa and say: we have a very big party with hundreds of them in here and you just figure it out. But precisely because that fine is not just being given, I have wanted to maintain that policy in recent times. But I also say that this discussion has been a social one for some time now. I spoke to the Chief Constable about this for the first time in April. I then discussed it with the boa associations and the police unions in connection with the demonstration, as you can all remember, on 25 or 21 June, on that Sunday, in The Hague. Then we sat together on Monday and then the subject was raised that I also discussed with the unions yesterday, namely the theme that the enforcers say: we must anchor the corona measures not only through repression in society, but also through the social inclusion of them. That is a brief summary. But in the meantime, I understand the inconvenience of your Chamber, because such a fine will indeed be entered in the judicial documentation register. Then there must be several different criminal offences, but then it can play a role in the provision of animal feed. In any case, Mr Dekker and I said in our letter of late May that we will not include the single corona fine. So it goes out in the policy of the Justis department. Before I go further on how to deal with these fines, I would like to emphasise the following. I thought Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen said that sometimes enforcement is carried out directly. She referred to answers to parliamentary questions, but those answers literally state: "In principle, the first warning is always given, although this depends on the situation on the ground. Minors have been warned for a longer period of time in the first period. It is now clear to everyone what the distance rules are, the focus is now more on enforcement action when it is necessary to end a violation and to prevent repetition." However, I would like to stress that'maintaining action' is not a fine. That's talking to people, then telling them and then fined them. Mr. Chairman. I'll get back to you on those fines. I understand your Chamber's persistent questions about that. There are certainly possible solutions, but then we, the Chamber and I, should see how we can find a good way to get those fines no longer in the judicial documentation register. The point raised by Mr Marijnissen, as I have just said, is that there is a group of people who consciously do this, who do not care, who brusque people or spit in the face. Mr Dijkhoff said: you could also think of a period of a few months. Then it expires after a few months, because then you've seen if someone's a repeat offender. Apologies for English. Other things have also been suggested, such as a reduction in the amount of the fine to below €100, because then it comes below the threshold of the judicial documentation register. Anyway, I'd like to go all the way to exploring those possibilities. I have already promised your Chamber that there will be a separate evaluation letter on enforcement. In any case, we could certainly take this with us. Mr. Chairman. I would like to address the question of whether I am still credible to the enforcers themselves, the police and the boas. Yeah, I think so. I have gone to them over the last few months, just at times when I found out that the boas and the police were in a difficult situation. I've had a lot of conversations. I have also decided to write a letter to your Chamber about this in order to give boas the possibility of a more extensive armor, very much against my long-standing policy, because I saw that I would otherwise fail them or wrong them. Also with the police I have continued to do so and I will have to do so in the coming months with a visible dent in a continuous conversation in groups, whether it is about how the entire Black Lives Matter discussion has been experienced in corona time or how one personally received the demo if it was a demo, or at least the riots on Sunday 21 or 25 June. I just wanted to say that, Mr President, because it must not only be talks with the unions, but I must also stand in front of the group. Mr President, I think I have answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u132	Thank you. I see Mr Baudet, Mr Wilders, Mrs Marijnissen, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Klaver, Mr Azarkan and Mr Van der Staaij. I shall begin with Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u133	I see it affects the minister personally. I can imagine, and I have empathy with that. I also want to say that I like him as a human being and it is not a personal attack at all as far as I am concerned. It is something about rules that are very far-reaching, for 17 million people. Let's not forget that. This discussion is not just about protecting one specific group. That's what they say sometimes. There are 17 million vulnerable people in the Netherlands. Some are entrepreneurs, for example. Others can't give their concerts. Other people are shopkeepers. So we are simply dealing with a balance of interests, a classical political balance of interests. I have heard the Minister say, in between his emotions, with a fist on his seat, that he fully supports the rules in force. So, if I understand correctly, he wants to stand by it completely. If that is the case, it would mean that it would pose an unacceptable risk if people did not stick to it and hug high-age mothers-in-law while children who have just had corona are on their other side, because that is what we have seen. Does he really think that he has put his own mother-in-law in an unacceptable risky situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u134	I am beginning to say that the situation in which she and I are poor, let us call it all if you want it so badly, is not in accordance with the rules. Period. The suggestion that there would have been two children of mine who were still in a contagion phase of corona is completely incorrect. Well, let's just say that very clearly. I explained that I underestimated that moment, to name but one, and perhaps a few other moments, in advance of all my calculations of where everyone should walk and sit. Everyone in the Netherlands can do that, and the same 17 million people who know this can certainly charge me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u135	That's not what I mean. I get that it's rules that have been broken. I can imagine a speech like this very well when it comes to driving through red light, wearing no seat belt, no helmet on a scooter and so on. These are things that basically relate to a personal risk. I do not believe that, but I have just heard the Minister say that he believes that the current corona rules are really necessary, that they are really necessary. Apparently, we all run an unacceptable risk. That must be the consequence of that. Apparently, the Minister believes that if we do that sort of thing, we all run an unacceptable risk. I'm not asking about the letter of the rule, I'm asking about its implication. Does he think that he himself, along with Mrs Ankie Knol, who was also present, has taken an unacceptable risk? He'll have to answer that with a yes, won't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u136	I think those rules are really necessary. We have seen that the curve of infections and all other corona curves have fallen enormously after the measures were really well implemented and worked across the country. In those six months I have listened a great deal to the advice of the Outbreak Management Team and the reports and reports of the RIVM, and I am convinced that the measures we are taking and which we periodically adjust as Cabinets have been very good for society. If we went to that covid law, the order could be so that we would be in parliament first. The measures have saved us an enormous amount of social, economic and individual damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u137	That is a 'cum hoc ergo propter hoc' deception: it happened and at the same time something else happened, so one must be because of the other. That has not been proven at all, nor can it be proved. Countries with much less measures have also seen similar curves. I do not agree with that at all. One more question. It's the risk, isn't it? It's about putting other people at risk, isn't it? Do you think you put your own family, your own mother-in-law, in danger?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u138	I have just indicated to you that the proposition you have put forward is in fact not right at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u139	'Cause?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u140	You have implied that there were two children standing next to or even present who would still be corona-infectious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u141	No, I've had it recently. There were all other people, too. Of course, the whole point of the rules is not that they only apply if there are two children who have just had corona. The point of the rules is that they apply to everyone. I'm against it, but it's your rules. What happened at that wedding would therefore have qualified you as an unacceptable risk. Do you think you've taken an unacceptable risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u142	I have just told you twice what the answer to this question is. By the way, it's not a misdemeanor. I show that there are measures that have an effect. Anyone who can read statistics can see that. The ic-recordings have gone down. Hospitalizations have gone down. There's at least a correlation there, if not just a causal link.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u143	One question...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u144	No. You asked your question three times. It's gonna be a repeat. I'm going to see Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u145	As I said, I am not concerned with the mere fact that the Minister has broken the rules. We all give him a wonderful marriage. I congratulated him on that, too. But now it's about his authority and his credibility. As understandable, even emotionally understandable, his story is, I can only honestly say that the Minister has lost his authority. It is not about whether he has the authority with the boas, it is about whether what he has done affects the authority with a lot of people in the Netherlands. Those are the people he took the measure, which he called antisocial, asos, whose children's parties were disturbed on his behalf, which he fined, from catering companies to citizens. In addition, my mailbox is filled with messages from people who say: we didn't get a warning first; we immediately got a fine. So as much as I understand your personal story, the point isn't that you've broken the rules again, that several people here have done over the past few months. The point is that you've blown off the tower and that not the boas but the people at home really don't believe that you're the man who can shape the corona policy in the coming months, regardless of whether we as PVV agree or not. Do you see that in the important policy area on which you are Minister, in the field of corona, you have lost authority before the people at home and that you need to find an answer to that? Not at the boa association, but at the people's house! You've lost that, no matter how awkward that sounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u146	No. I said that, and there is no denying that this has been dented, but I also said that this authority ultimately consists of more parts. Getting the weather completely dented indeed means that you will also have to answer to the people further. However, I would like to make it quite clear that I am faced with corona policy and the measures based on it. As far as I am concerned, they must be separate from the fact that I may have a credibility problem with a number of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u147	That's not possible. That's the problem. The Minister knows: trust comes on foot, but goes on horseback. It goes on horseback. It's leaving way faster than it's coming back. We are now in the Netherlands, whether you like it or not again, as far as I'm concerned, we have a much less major corona problem than the cabinet might think at a time when a lot has to happen in the Netherlands, when it comes to corona and also when it comes to Justice. You won't be able to do that. At least you won't be able to do that portfolio because it doesn't work like you say, in the sense of: I, Ferd Grapperhaus, I made a mistake, I apologized, I offended people, I called asos, but I think now because I've talked to the boas that I have to work on it and that I have to keep talking. But have you ever thought, Minister, that the Netherlands cannot afford such a minister now? We cannot afford a Minister of Justice who has to regain the confidence of citizens every day, every week and every month. That luxury doesn't have the Kingdom of the Netherlands now. So maybe it's in your best interest, your personal interest, which I still understand, to continue to gain confidence, but the Netherlands can't afford a minister who isn't busy with politics for months, not catching crooks, not with corona, not with nothing, but who is in the process of regaining trust. You can't do that to our country, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u148	I am also working on the many other issues under my responsibility during Corona and also now and today, and I will continue to do so. In fact, I have always considered my tasks in the context of corona to be a task that came at the top of what is indeed a package for a Minister of Justice and Security. Let's get that straight. Furthermore, I believe that I still have that confidence, or I can get it. I think that is the most important thing that you are doing, and that is what I am doing, first of all, to talk to the front-line parties. These are the boas and the police; they have to carry it out and they say very clearly: we are going to proceed with it. I started those conversations. It is said that we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u149	Finally. Exactly what you're saying is the point that I'm making right. You say, "I think I have the confidence." Yeah, I think I have a lot, too, but that's not all true. You say, "I think I have the confidence." But it's about people trusting you. You say, "I think I can have it." The Minister knows I don't hate him. I didn't decide that. We also often see each other in other contexts, for example when it comes to security work. So I certainly respect the Minister, but on this point I have to say that he puts his own interest above the national interest. The importance of the country requires a minister who does not have to fight every day, week and month to regain confidence. We need a Justice Minister who stands there, can make policies and has authority. I often disagreed with you, but you did have the authority. You stood there and had an opinion. Not my opinion, but you had the authority, and you've lost it now. I'm sorry to hear that, but you've lost it now. Think about it. Please think about that. You may find that you have authority, but that's really something other than that you have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u150	Mr Wilders, whom I do know well from other points of view too, let that be very clear; that is separate from this discussion, to touch on something that is right. I have, of course, asked myself this question over the last few days: am I indeed the Minister who can continue this in the best possible way? The complicated thing is that that's a question that you can't ultimately judge for yourself, because that's up to others. But you can have a conviction. I stand before this Ministry and therefore also for dealing with the major problems we face as Justice and Security, ranging from counter-terrorism to the problem of confused people on the streets. These are major problems that I have to deal with and deal with. I'm gonna have to keep going at it. That's a trade-off for me, too. Then you still have the point that Mr Baudet just came up with: do you still support the corona measures? Then I say yes. I have shown that these measures, which the experts have recommended to us and which your Chamber has always acknowledged: in subsequent debates sanctioned, have helped us a great deal further. I am not going to be so rude to look across borders, but I really think that we have come a lot further by the experts and by the people in the care, who have all had to pick it up during that urgent period. I stand by it and I think I'm the one who can carry it forward in a good way. I understand that I still have a lot of explaining to people in the country about the question: how could you not be so good at such a wedding? That's why I said that I should be in front of the boas, the policemen and perhaps the people themselves. I'm still gonna have to say that mistake out loud and what's more. But I do agree that I'm the one who can do this right. In the end, that judgment is not mine, but it is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u151	The Minister goes through the dust here. I think that suits him. I find it very sad for Mr. Grapperhaus and also for his wife what happened at the wedding party. But I'll talk to him here as a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u152	You're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u153	Where the biggest problem lies for us is in the first reaction given by Minister Grapperhaus after it became known. In the apology letter, if I may put it that way, he put it on Twitter, he said: we've done all kinds of things; I've been paying attention all day and we've even replaced the hugs with elbows. Well, then the pictures came and we just saw that wasn't true. My question is why the Minister has not been honest about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u154	As I said in reply to Mrs Ouwehand, I still had the idea on that Thursday: it did not go well a number of times, but it was all so well arranged in advance. I can also say: you've been carried away too much because you're also the groom and it might not be convenient for you to take that on. But people also rightly say: yes, but not everyone can afford to walk around with keepers or security guards. That was a bit excessive with such a small group. But I've been thinking about how things have gone on over the past weekend, indeed sometimes I thought to myself: is that really... no, that may not have gone quite well. The photos that came along confirm that, too. I can't make that prettier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u155	No. I understand. But of course that's the bottleneck here. In fact, I think that a lot of people still find quite a lot of things here in the Chamber, and it is also very often stressed here in the Chamber that things sometimes go wrong. We all say: maybe there is also one of us to take a picture that really doesn't work out. But the big problem, as far as I'm concerned, is really in the Minister's response. We do want to be able to trust the minister, the cabinet, in that. So, on the one hand, it is about whether you can still be credible, but on the other hand, it is also about whether or not there is any truth. Is the truth an option, namely: we come up with it at the moment the photos leak out? Or can we trust the Minister that the truth is spoken when it is necessary? That was necessary earlier, but it did not happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u156	I understand. I really wanted to say in a comment on Thursday: this did not go well. Once again, assuming that there would be another debate about it, I have really looked at it in detail with a number of guests that day. And then you get images... I'll say it quite honestly here: I really didn't see some things happening at the time, because my brain was fixed on... We'd all organized it in advance. What I've been failing in most of my time is that as a groom I haven't been able to keep a strict check on the day itself and pay attention, even to myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u157	I don't think the latter is even the biggest problem. A lot of people will probably understand that the groom is in the party noise that probably took place there, which may have been lost sight of. But the problem, I think, is really after that. That is in the letter of apology that came from the minister, which actually said: we have done so much; we have replaced the hugs with elbows. And that just turned out not to be true. That is a much more fundamental problem, because then it is about a minister who is not telling the truth. I think we all understand that groom Grapperhaus did his best and that maybe it didn't always work out. But that Minister Grapperhaus did not speak the truth when it was necessary, we think that is very serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u158	Mr. Chairman. I would like to emphasise what I said last week in my first statement: I also did my best. I just didn't immediately realize in the first recollection of the memory of that day how much that had failed on a number of points. That's how it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u159	First Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, then Mr Klaver and then Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u160	The Minister read his answer to the Parliamentary question very quickly, but I can see absolutely nothing but that, in principle, there is always a warning, although this depends on the situation on the ground. And then there are the sentences: "In the meantime, everyone knows what the distance rules are. The focus is now more on enforcement action when this is necessary to end an offence and prevent recurrence." There's not a lot of Spanish in there, I'd say. The way I interpret it and the way it says it, the bottom line is that there isn't always a warning. It turns out that this is also the practice. I'm in close contact with a lawyer who supports 140 clients, Mr. Kötter. He has also been on TV to explain matters where absolutely no warning has been given. People just sat in a park with three of them, got fined, and now they're in front of the criminal in the next few weeks. If you get a criminal order, you're gonna have to resist and then you're gonna get to the criminal court. First, the district attorney's gonna make a judgment on this, and he's gonna challenge whoever's fined just to the criminal court. Those people who are in the park are getting in front of the criminal court and the minister is getting away, no matter how painful it is that this happened at his wedding, and I also understand that with "sorry" and a donation to the Red Cross. You can't do that! Does the Minister see that confidence in politics is falling so heavily?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u161	Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen did indeed read the piece in full. So we can see that the three strokes that I have always described are just in the policy. On top of that, it will be checked whether there is any intention to act against the rules. That means someone does it very consciously and keeps doing it. That's what policy is all about. I said a few things about the fines and the note. There is already a very large filter, so to speak, in respect of people who do or do not comply with the corona rules. Then there is still the possibility to transit if someone has done it intensively. It's only after that that the judge gets involved. I cannot go into that further, because that is the judicial review.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u162	I understand that the Minister is trying to pull up a smokescreen here, but the fact is that if you got that corona fine because you were in the park with two other people, followed by a criminal order and a note on your judicial document, "a criminal record" in popular terms and you want to go against it, then the prosecutor will see what happened and whether the fine and the criminal order were imposed, and then you have to fight it with the criminal officer. You'll be convicted by the criminal. Those are just normal people sitting outside in the park with their family eating a cake. Those are not large groups of people who have corona parties and so to speak "have shit on the rules and be asos." They are very normal, decent people who have good intentions, just a little too close together and have not been warned at all first. Anyone can go wrong, including the Minister, as we have seen. Does the Minister agree with me that it should be the case that the Minister should also be fined and that the Minister should also receive a note on his judicial document? Does the Minister agree with me that the rules also apply to the minister and that it is indeed up to the local enforcer and the prosecutor to make a decision on this and not to the Minister to say "sorry" and to make a donation to a self-chosen charity?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u163	I repeat, however, that there is always the three strokes of speaking first, warning if that does not help and, finally, penalising. And the latter only in cases where there is an intention to act. I can show you examples where the cops at a corona party say, "Hey, listen, quit." So take it apart and don't charge anyone else. It's limited to: if everyone goes home now, that's it. And once again, there's always that limit of intent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u164	It doesn't add up. I understand that the Minister can give examples where there was first warning and then no fine. I understand. But there are also plenty of examples that have not been first warned and have been fined. Those people will be in front of the criminal court in the next few weeks. Those aren't the people from the corona parties, the antisocial people. Those are people who really had good intentions and suddenly have a huge fine of €390, a penalty decision and a note on a judicial document. The Minister is also aware that the mayor in Bloemendaal had empathy and compassion with the parents who said that they were very worried about the corona fine and the judicial record that their son or daughter had received. The Minister has said very loudly: these are the rules; I am not going to withdraw that decision. And this is said to young people who have a whole life ahead of them, have to travel, study and find a job. And the minister gets away with "sorry" and a donation to the Red Cross. The Minister can't sell that, can he? The Minister can't be serious, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u165	I am not dealing at all with the issue of criminal decisions, whether or not to withdraw them. That's one. Two: if someone comes to court, if it comes to that, the prosecution has apparently felt that there was an intention to act. Then it's still the independent judge who's judging that. Should the judge, in the event that Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen cites, say that there has been no mention of it, etc., then there is no question of a fine at all, let alone a record in the judicial documentation register. As far as the note itself is concerned, I have responded before. I understand that point, but we should discuss it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u166	One final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u167	It is indeed not up to the Minister. I will also be asking the Prime Minister about this later, because it is a state-of-the-art scandal that the Minister of Justice and Security does not have to pay a fine or receive a note on a judicial document. That is not up to the Prime Minister or the Minister. That's up to the local enforcer and the district attorney's office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u168	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u169	This debate is about whether the Minister can still manage with authority and effectively. It's too easy for the minister to say, "Yes, I think that's possible." I think we should dissect that. For the majority of the Netherlands, this minister still has authority. That is the group of people who keep their distance, abide by the rules from an intrinsic motivation and who says: I do that to protect my loved one. That is by far the largest group in the Netherlands. Then we still have 5% of the people who believe in conspiracy theories. The minister had no authority there. I don't think that's gonna work out anymore, but I don't think that's gonna get any better. I won't charge the Minister for that. But we are at a crucial moment in tackling this crisis. The group that has doubts about the measures is increasing. And the cabinet should be able to address, address and convince these people with authority, not just this minister but the entire cabinet. This group is looking for reasons and arguments to say: see, those rules don't really matter. How is the Minister going to ensure that this group does listen to the cabinet and listens to this minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u170	That is why I also referred to that piece of parliamentary history, at least in the first place, to answer here out loud and to name what I did not do well, so that everyone hears it very clearly from me. The second thing is then, and after saying it, the actions come out loud to say quite clearly that the corona measures are really meaningful, important, that we must continue with them and that they are separate from my personal situation, I shall say. The third is by just showing in action that I'm serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u171	I'm talking about this group, this growing group of people who have doubts. They hear, for example, Mr Baudet tonight saying: why else do you embrace your 91-year-old mother-in-law? While we are trying to make it clear that that is not possible. The cabinet constantly says "please, don't do that to older people, but protect them." You did. The group we are talking about is looking for arguments not to listen and to say that it is all okay. With what the minister did, he gave an ID to that group to say: see, even the minister found this. The words of remorse, I believe. I see that it hurts you, but I believe them, that's not the point; the majority of the Netherlands will believe them. But that expanding group should be the government's priority. Then you don't come by saying you're showing that you're still behind the rules. The point is that these people are getting more and more doubts about those rules. The Minister has violated those rules. And that wasn't because there wasn't an accidental distance, as was stated in the first explanation, but because an arm was placed around someone. The suggestion is that hands were shaken. That's really different. It's about that group. There's my fear, and that's why I want to ask you about this. When it comes to the minister's authority, it's about how we keep these people inside. The cabinet has the greatest responsibility, this minister first. How do you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u172	At the risk of it being a bit of a repetition, I do not want it to happen, but it is by naming it aloud that this should not have happened and that I still support what we are doing. Not just to say something, but because it really is a very well-founded policy that is being pursued. Next, by showing that we are prepared in the policy, including enforcement policy, to look critically at whether it is still going well and whether it is still in line with how it is developing. And by constantly talking, first and foremost, to your Chamber and, secondly, to the people and, in between, to those who have to do it in practice, to those who have to do it and to those who have to answer for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u173	Let me put it first: if this had been the Minister of Agriculture or IenW, I would just like to mention a department of any kind, we would not have had this debate in this form. Then a "sorry, I made a mistake" would have sufficed. We can all make mistakes in life; we all make mistakes in life. Only, this minister is responsible for implementing the corona policy and has to ensure that people keep their distance and respect the rules we agree with each other. Your political opponents still have some calm words for you, but I can see them getting along with what you have done. This is gonna haunt the cabinet for the next few months. Any proposal made by the cabinet, for example if measures need to be scaled up, will create doubt by political opponents. What do you mean, it wasn't that dangerous to have a party or to hold a parent. I'm not gonna do it, but I'm gonna take a look around the room. Your political opponents are going to do that. This is at the expense of the ability of this cabinet to act. As a member of the opposition, I generally find it wonderful to see if the cabinet is not able to act, but in this crisis the Netherlands cannot use it. Then there must be a cabinet that the Netherlands listens to. Then the authority must be above all doubt. That is why we have this extremely uncomfortable debate on something that should actually be a private matter. And then say, "I still stand by the rules," that's not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u174	No, but I didn't say that alone. I'm not going to repeat them, but I said those are the first two parts of the whole thing. And the third part: there is no ready-made communication campaign to keep the group Mr Klaver has mentioned or to bring in. You're gonna have to show people that it's necessary and you're gonna have to turn it into action.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u175	The cabinet was already 1-0 behind this group. There is not a clear communication campaign for that. It's about the authority that the cabinet exudes about the feeling in society: we do this together. The Minister says we have to work on that. But the cabinet was already behind this group. So working to restore trust makes for an even greater backlog. For me, we're really at a tipping point, seeing how society almost seems to split in half. There are people who say "we keep going on at the foot of being very careful" and there are people who say "it can all be a bit looser." The group that is in doubt, we really want to bring it back. That's what we're gonna say, guys, we're gonna do this together. That group has a perfect argument in this minister not to have to do it. The political opponents sharpen their knives. In any other debate on this subject, every time this minister or cabinet announces an additional measure, they will say: yes, it may be, but the Minister does not stick to it himself. And the people in the country hear that. The group we have to take with us, they hear that. I don't hear from this minister how he's gonna make us convince them. There's my fear. The Minister's apology is a credit to him. That's good, and that's done for me, too. That's good. Anyone can make mistakes. Please, let's get out of there. But how do we ensure that we bring the people who are in doubt? I don't hear an answer to that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u176	First of all, the following. Mr Klaver says that we need to work very hard on this. The whole Corona policy, of course, has required a great deal of extra effort from the beginning of March, in the first place of the people who are in the front of the field, whether they are the care, the police or other services, but also ours. It requires constant extra effort, because we are in a pandemic and we are dealing with a large number of things that are socially about half a turn. In any case, it's hard to take the people into it. Then you have to have a good policy. That policy is under development. I have outlined to you that in recent months, for example, I have already had discussions on the policy of fines, because there were also critical thoughts from the services and others. You will have to keep doing that every time, just as well as you have to work every time to convince the Dutch that this is really the best way to do it. Then the fact that I suffered a dent in this is certainly a slight handicap, you might say. But in the end, it's about consistently showing why you're doing it and doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u177	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u178	I think this room is full of people with dents. That's not the point either. It happens. The Minister himself very much strengthens my arguments. He says: "The approach to this corona crisis is extremely complicated. The public communication to bring the people in the country into this was actually very difficult." That is precisely why the additional handicap that this minister has now experienced is so difficult. It was already an uphill battle. The cabinet was already behind. If, at the same time, this minister also has to work on destroying himself, as he calls it, then the question that lies ahead is whether this is an impossible task. Shouldn't there be a competent cabinet that has confidence so that we can bring back the group that is in doubt as soon as possible? Precisely because it's an uphill battle, precisely because it's so difficult, there has to be a minister who doesn't have to work on himself first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u179	That is a simplification: a minister who has to work on himself first. I had a bit of a debate on this with Mr Wilders just now. It's not like I'm gonna say: I'm gonna build up my own image first, or something like that, and then, next item on the agenda, let's see what we can do in the context of corona. What I emphasise and what I have explained twice in the meantime is that in your policy, in my case, in terms of implementing the measures, facilitating their enforcement and giving confidence to the people who need to do so in the field, you really need to be consistent and active. I say that in the discussion and in the communication will occasionally take place: yes, but, what about you? I realize that, but that does not change the fact that I can do so consistently and with authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u180	I have great appreciation for the man of Grapperhaus, who tonight, on a painful and emotional note, indicated that he made a mistake. And that can happen. It's actually the same as what you often hear when you talk to people, whether they live in the Schilderswijk or Wassenaar or in Drenthe or in Groningen. If people made a mistake, they say, "I would have guessed otherwise," "wrong appraisal," "I wish I hadn't been there at the time." We are dealing here with a minister who has to convince the Chamber in itself, but, importantly, must also convince the people of the country. We are in a situation where we all, especially this team, have the incredibly difficult task of convincing the Netherlands that the strategy we have chosen is the right way to get a dangerous virus under control. My question to the Prime Minister, but also to the Minister, is what is the valuation of the cabinet in this. How does this action of the Minister work on getting into control and controlling this virus?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u181	The assessment is actually, as I have just discussed with Mr Klaver, that we can really go through with each other here. I am really convinced of that; let me say that. Because, of course, I appreciate Mrs Marijnissen's words about going through the dust and the like, but at some point I have to get up, shake off the dust and go on and on straight away. That is and remains very necessary in this corona time. At the moment, I need to look at how we can strike a balance between repression and other measures in a good, balanced way, as I said earlier. If you ask me when I will do that, I will say as of tomorrow morning. It's just gonna happen. I support that, I go for that, and I have been working on that in addition to my usual work for the past few months. And that's what I'm gonna keep doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u182	Then there is the Minister's willingness to look at that judicial note. A motion was tabled on 20 May, signed by Mr Van Haga, Mr Krol and Mr Baudet and Mrs Ouwehand and tabled by myself. Of that, the Minister said: I must not forget that the judicial record goes away. He was harsh in his response and judgment. What insights has the Minister gained which lead him to say: I want to take a good look at it, because it can also be different?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u183	Let me begin with the fact that the letter written following Mr Azarkan's motion makes it clear that we, Mr Dekker and I, have said that a single violation of the corona rules must not be an obstacle to the labour market. After that, I had discussions with the stakeholders at this point, who say for all kinds of reasons: listen, we think you can look at this differently. I also had that discussion with your Chamber in an AO, with Mr Azarkan, once again. It has, of course, been for us, in this post-war pandemic situation, how it should be done in a good way. If I hear the criticism tonight and understand that, it is not because it is tonight, but because I also see from the conversations I have already made, that there is a need for a more balanced system of sanctions, if I may put it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u184	The Minister makes the distinction between... He himself never intended to break the rules. He states: people who don't have that. That's the conclusion I'm drawing. People who never had the intention to break the rules don't get that judicial notice. Is that what I'm allowed to understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u185	Well, now it's so... No, it's just that the D.A.'s office isn't gonna let matters where that intention isn't established go on anyway, if I may put it that way. What I get from the discussion about the fines, the meaning and the usefulness of them, but also the piece of discussion I just had with Mr. Klaver that you... As well as I must put it as well as the insights of the experts, of the RIVM, of the OMT, have been gradually moving forward, so I honestly admit that we also see progressing insights in the field of Justice and Security, not because we did not at the time consider and put together the system of fines very badly, but because we now also see that this pandemic lasts six, seven months and that unions, policemen and so on say: at some point you must also create other effects in your enforcement. I may have said it a little cumbersome, but that is a re-examination of whether we are still on the right track with the rules on enforcement policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u186	Mr Van der Staaij, then Mrs Ouwehand, then Mr Asscher and then Mr Jetten. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u187	The Minister has given text and explanations, he has put on the dress of penance and I think he has made a fair diagnosis: his authority has suffered a dent. That brings me to the question, even if you want to judge whether that dent can be dented again: do we know everything now? Can we really determine the damage tonight and will it not be a lingering case in which all kinds of new cases arise again? The Minister said: there will undoubtedly be some photos. But I'd like to know. I wouldn't ask for a wedding report, but the Minister is the only one who can really say that. You understand my question. Can we, in your opinion, close the case tonight, or should we take into account that this can flare up over and over again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u188	I said in the introduction that, of course, new pictures can always appear. They will not confirm the beautiful image that it has not succeeded in setting up the corona measures properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u189	Okay, but that confirms what we already know. But in essence, the image of the damage we have is a good picture, says the Minister, and we do not have to take into account that whole new dimensions are added to that discussion. That's why I'm saying that. The minister actually says, "If you know everything... We would have done our best. It just didn't work out in the emotion of that day to hold on well and hold on." But also in other situations you would actually act as a warning and say: boys, pay attention and follow those rules. That's what I hear the Minister say. He says that in similar situations it should actually lead to a warning: remember, stick to the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u190	Yes. I didn't manage it properly. We can have a discussion about whether it is very wise for a groom to do it itself or what, but that may also be because, as some might have noticed, I am already at a somewhat advanced age and there were not so many people. At least, for my sake. The answer is yes to Mr Van der Staaij. On the basis of the public prosecutor's policy, I think it is dangerous to go further into that, because that is not up to me. If that had not happened, they would have done it one last time and then we would have gone in the direction of: those people are doing it intentionally wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u191	Mrs. Ouwehand. Then Mr Asscher and then Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u192	I mentioned the discussion in my group: okay, the rules have not been enforced, but we want to be lenient. It also emerged: the Minister himself is not at all lenient. But from the human need to be close to each other, to give each other a hand or to cuddle, it can sometimes go wrong. If the Minister says in his statement "I want a clean slate, I say sorry and I donate; will you please forgive me?', As far as we are concerned, this also applies to all those other well-intentioned citizens and entrepreneurs who have gone wrong in the same way. That is the first question: is the cabinet, the minister, prepared to forgive those fines against those good citizens and entrepreneurs? Then we all start with a clean slate and then you can say: the rules are still super important; it is difficult, but we ask everyone to participate and I do. Is the Minister prepared to forgive you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u193	No, that would really be a mortal sin in the state of law. I have also been very conscious today to answer for what I did not arrange properly and what I did not do well at my own wedding. At least I tried to separate myself from the discussion about fines and criminal records, more macrophrase, if I may say so. I really wouldn't want those two together... It can't be. As Minister of Justice, I would go straight into justice, and of course I cannot do that. Let's be clear... I'm going to go to the second part of my answer just now. I think that you should be able to look at it in a working way and say: wait a minute, in some way that penalty system is no longer working, or perhaps there should be an adjustment. I have mentioned a few examples that have been suggested. Dijkhoff had an example. Others say it shouldn't be in Justis at all. Others say again: can't you lower the fine? Then you are working in a good way to turn your progressing insights, which you also get from the enforcers and the mayors in the field, into action and new regulations. I've heard a lot about that from your room. That does mean that you have to do very well with that. I recognize that from the conversations I've had and so on. But it can't be that we're gonna tear up fines that may have been justified again, that's up to the prosecution and the judge because I didn't do well and apologize for that. Those two have to be completely separate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u194	Well, that's complicated. I understand that the Minister points out the normal course of events, but we live in special times. If the Minister wants the Chamber to be lenient to him, when he says 'I would like to stay on, I have acknowledged what has gone wrong, I have said sorry', then I think that if you ask that attitude to the House of Representatives, what he is actually doing today, good citizens and good businessmen can count on that same attitude. Anyway, I can see we're not gonna agree on that. The second point I raised is that we are not concerned with the violation of the rules. We grant everyone, especially at a wedding party, that you can embrace your loved one. But it's complicated, really complicated, that the minister first made a statement and first denied it. I can also imagine you panicked for a moment and said, "Oh no, but it all went well at my wedding," because it's really bad. Then came the explanation, very good, but it wasn't complete. The Minister has just taken responsibility for this, also in response to questions from Mrs Marijnissen. That's where it's starting to get unbelievable. We've all been through it, because it goes unconscious: before you know it, you're too close to someone who's five feet tall. But we've had that virus for six months now. We've all seen you meet someone you haven't seen in a while. The first thing you want is a hug or a handshake. That is a very conscious act of which you really register: oh yes, that is not possible right now. The Minister now says: I had to think about the weekend, get back to what happened. That's unbelievable. The Minister has just felt there, so our impression is: I am doing something here that is not really right. Then the question remains: why is that not immediately included in that statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u195	Then it's very personal. I spent the first four months of the week at my mother-in-law's house dropping off food at a distance, always at a distance. I remember exactly when I went wrong once in the corona period when someone reached out to me. I remember exactly who it was. It was Wednesday May 20th when I stopped by the rescuers here by the sea, because those surfers had died. The I'll say hotmetoot who received us there, put his hand out. I'm telling you the truth. There's no photo of that, but in a reflex, I already got that hand. Johan Remkes, who stood next to me, said in the unflinching way he knew: you can't get that hand. I just remember that, the first month that I think we all concentrated on that. It was very unnatural and at some point it starts to get into your motor skills. I tried to explain what I underestimated. Six months or so we went to my mother-in-law's house with a basket and then bye. Apparently, whether you believe that or not, that at marriage a few times, with me too, just went wrong and somehow I didn't register it that way. If I did in May, probably because it was that day... Okay, I was dragged into that. I can't do it any other way. I'm sorry I didn't realize that that Thursday. But there's no malice in that, even if you think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u196	For the record, I understand that. If it had been in the statement immediately "this did not go well, we tried that 1.5 meters, it did not work, there was hugging and there might have been shaking hands," my group would also have said: yes, we understand, especially on a festive day, that you want to be close. But the point is that the Minister now has the appearance, what we have seen before with directors and what is not okay: you admit what is already known or is in danger of becoming known, because there is a risk of publication. In this case this picture was known, but there appeared to be more to it. It's just not so credible that you don't remember those other violations, the hug, the hands, the moment you think "I have to admit that it went wrong" and that it didn't appear in that statement at the time. That's really hard for my party. The rest we all wanted to forgive the Minister, but honesty and putting the complete truth on the table if necessary is really crucial for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u197	I have said it before: at that time I really did it to the best of my conscience. Even though it was annoying back then, you can see it through some kind of pink thing or something. I haven't really wondered what happened until the next few days, including with other people. I'm sure you can charge me with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u198	Mr President, I should like to take a somewhat business look at the situation. The emotions are now out of the debate. We have heard that the minister's position is that he no longer had the feeling of some things that they had happened. When you say that intentions are important, it is in itself a rather complicated figure. He has said that he will keep the trust of the boas, among other things because he supplied them with weapons and thus noticed that he stood in front of the group... The minister looks strange, but that's what he just said. The bottom line, and what this debate is about, is authority and credibility at a time of crisis. The Minister has admitted that his authority and his credibility have been damaged. There's, in his words, a dent in it. Later he called that a bit trivializing a slight handicap. My question is: does the Minister, now that he intends to stay on, recognise that the same dent or a slight handicap has caused damage to the credibility and authority of the cabinet? For he stands on behalf of the cabinet to proclaim the corona policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u199	When I say that I have, of course, suffered a dent in this, it is certainly true that it also radiates somewhat into the cabinet, although none of the other cabinet members can do anything about it or have anything to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u200	"Slightly": the Minister is responsible for enforcement as Minister of Justice and Security. That damage is therefore for the cabinet in the role of enforcer of rules during a sensitive period. Then there's my second question. Maintainers already have a very difficult job, because no one likes being addressed by a enforcer. They are also very often confronted with a huge mouth and with intimidation. We hear, and have also seen it on television, that they actually have a much less strong story when they talk to people, because they get back: Grapperhaus does it too. A joker's gonna be called it. We know that the number of infections has now stabilised, but we also know that it is at a fairly high level. Does the Minister recognize that because of these facts, because of this unfortunate state of affairs, he has also damaged the authority of the boas, of the people who have to do the work on the street? I'm not saying that it's not reparable and that people aren't great at solving that, but does he recognise that it's damaged and that they feel slightly handicapped in their work because of the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u201	I agree with what the boa-bonds have said with me and they have said that to the outside world that boas naturally feel that way. The trust of your Chamber is, of course, paramount, but I have also really said: I really need to hear from you whether you still see my credibility, just, towards your people. Then I will still have to talk to that in many places in the coming time to give people that explanation themselves. That's the only way to do that right, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u202	The Minister states that he does acknowledge that that authority has been affected, but that, by working on it in the near future, he hopes that it can be restored. We have seen in this crisis that a very important task has been assigned to the mayors, especially the presidents of the security regions. But other mayors, too, sometimes have to make very difficult decisions, which also intervene deeply. They forbid things. Cafes are being closed. Let me put it this way: things happen in these cafes, too, which may not actually be realized. The distance is not kept. That could have very big consequences. And those mayors should be able to make those decisions on the basis of agreements with the cabinet and the authority of the cabinet. It's hard for those mayors. Does the Minister recognise that the authority of those mayors has been compromised as a result of the action of the minister himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u203	I don't believe that. Let me say this very clearly. The administrative domain in the Netherlands is very well filled in. There are really good people there, just to put it in Dutch. In those six or seven months I have that in the weekly safety council, which we had once a six-month period before, for the sake of clarity, I have seen this very well. Not only the presidents of the security regions, but also the mayors I visited on the spot, have a lot of support and have taken good care of their business. There, by the local triangle, lies the local authority; that's how our system works. I sincerely believe that our system of mayors, of local administrators, is just as powerful as it has always been up to now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u204	That wasn't the answer to my question. I didn't ask if the minister thinks we have good mayors. We do. Some are very good, others just a little less. I didn't ask how that system works either. Nor did I ask: do you think that system will continue to function? That'll keep working. I'm not saying those mayors' authority has disappeared. The question was similar to an earlier question about recognizing the minister that he has damaged the authority of the cabinet and the boas. Does the Minister realize that if a mayor now has to close a café, it's not that easy; it's their livelihood, where people work, his authority is not formal, because it's legal, but it's affected in practice, because such a cafe owner will say: can we have some of that understanding, can we have some of that coulance? We saw the ad in the paper. Does the Minister recognize that or does he really not see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u205	No. My speech was not so much about us having an excellent system as such, but that the authority of our mayors is really based on it. That system is working very well. As far as I am concerned, these local authorities are not damaged by the fact that I, as a minister, am going through the dust here or whatever you want to call it. That's not true. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u206	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u207	Nor was my argument that authority is damaged by the fact that the Minister is going through the dust.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u208	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u209	No, that wasn't my statement. The Minister acknowledges that his authority has been compromised and that the authority of the cabinet has been compromised and that the authority of the enforcers has been compromised. Does the Minister realise that the appearance of what has happened in this respect also affects the mayors who have to do their work on his behalf? He can't see that. Then my final question to the Minister, abstracting from the person, the emotions, the wedding and the occasion. The Minister has undermined the government's authority in crisis time. We can still talk about the extent to which that happened. In addition, he has undermined the authority of the enforcers who have to enforce difficult rules. In my view, he may not have affected the mayor's authority, but at least he has made it difficult for him to have a difficult discussion. Does he think that is justified at this time and, if so, why? And how much time will he give himself to repair the damage?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u210	First of all, I did not say that the authority of the enforcers was compromised. As far as the boas are concerned, I have said that I am concerned that there is a feeling in certain boas that their authority has been compromised. I'm not ready to say that it really is. Let me put that in front of you. Otherwise, we're going too fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u211	That's a different answer than it was before, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u212	No, it's the same answer as before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u213	Look, if a boa feels he has less authority when he has to address a difficult group, there's actually a problem with his work. The Minister will have to acknowledge that. That's the signal the boas give us right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u214	Okay, but that's something else I'm in right now. But if there is such a feeling, I think that I should also pay attention to it immediately. As a result, I come straight to the answer to your question. I have simply explained to the presidents of the security regions, to the unions and to the corps leadership, whether they are convinced and whether I believe that I will continue to implement this policy with them. I think that is a very important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u215	Finally, Mr President...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u216	Finally, really. Then I'm going to see Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u217	Excuse me, I realize I'm asking a lot of follow-up questions. The minister had already told us that he had asked the unions and the mayors if he could pass as far as they were concerned. That wasn't my question. I asked him to abstract from that and simply to judge the meaning of the office he holds. Does he think that, in the context that arose unintentionally, he can, without a doubt, continue to damage the authority of the cabinet, damage the authority of the boas on the streets and, in my view, harm the authority of the mayors rather than make their work more difficult?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u218	In the context of the pandemic that is going on, Mr Asscher also referred to the need for all the measures, all the adjustments of policy and the involvement of everyone, in short, of everything that is needed in it, and considering a number of things in which I agree with Mr Asscher on a number of things, I do not agree with him in all these circumstances, as I said a few times earlier this evening, I believe that I still have the authority and credibility to do so. This is also due to the fact that, in addition to the 'normal work', I would almost say, as Minister of Justice and Security, of course, have been working in many areas over the last seven months and have been getting involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u219	At the beginning of his reply, the Minister indicated that he still fully supports the cabinet's corona policy, but that he also realised that enforcement should not only be through repression, but also through social embedding. I very much agree with the latter. D66 has long argued for less repression, much less prevention and good communication to continue to include people in these important corona rules. But there is also some inconvenience with me, and perhaps the Minister can take it away. I still have a feeling that that insight has come after he had personally experienced the inconvenience of those rules. Could he therefore take us into account how this awareness that not only repression but also social embedding is important has been in the process of sinking for some time now, and what this new awareness means for the government's approach? What will the cabinet actually do differently in the coming months to be less repressive and more preventive?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u220	That awareness came to my mind very slowly after first discussions with the fresh chief of police, who pointed it out to me and said: we really need to be very careful to ensure that we get a very good balance between repression and other measures in this country. The police are here, as I always explain everywhere abroad, not only enforcer but also aid worker, and that must be the case. This is what happened to the police. Then I described that earlier in May I had talks with the boa unions and with the police unions in June. In addition, this subject has been repeated a number of times and how should I put it? More and more articulate. So that discussion has been going on for a long time. Of course, I also discussed it at the Security Council. I cannot say, on the one hand, 'continue to maintain measures', while on the other hand I have these discussions. Your next question is: what are you going to do with that? First of all, I spoke with the Security Council about the idea that in the coming weeks, if I may say so, we should come to a policy of youth in particular under the motto "how do we get through autumn?', Assuming that calendarian starts about the end of September. In fact, I believe that Mr Bruls said something about this last Monday after the Security Council. That is also one of the reasons why, although it might be a little far from my portfolio, I asked in the Cabinet for permission to set up a kind of working group with experts with the Amsterdam mayor, which was in May, to see how we could go to youth. For repression alone, which I did last year when it came to the undermining crime, is not going to help us any further. We also have to do a lot of other things. Something else that is not really going to happen there are those talks that I have with the unions and the corps leadership about: how are we going to make sure that the role of police and boas really gets back, so to speak, combined maintainer and aid worker and that it does not fall too much on enforcement and, in particular, on repression? That is a very complicated discussion, and I need, in the end, far more departments than just mine. That goes for the first one, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u221	Of course, it is very wise to use police, boas and mayors to see how you can choose more the preventive route, especially if the first signals came from spring, May or June, that only repression does not work. I would like to challenge the Minister to reflect as a cabinet on what the cabinet itself can do. In the middle of the summer, we saw that one of the first major news moments of the cabinet was mainly a repressive reaction. Then we had the mandatory quarantine, which actually came out of the sky and was amazing to many people. It was thought that we would all be included in the corona approach. It is therefore a good thing that these talks with police, boas and mayors run, but I would also like to ask the Cabinet to continue to look closely at its own communication and appearance in this Corona approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u222	I hear what you're saying. I'm sure we'll take that with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u223	Then there's another point. The Minister just said in the interrupting debate with Mr Azarkan that the Public Prosecutor is looking at whether something is intentional. That raises a number of questions for me. If I understand correctly, not handling those 1.5 meters is now included in the rules as a violation, such as red-driving and game-plashing are also violations. Similarly, not handling 1.5 meters away is a violation. If I'm right, this means that the D.A. can't look at the intention that might have been involved in such a violation. So could the Minister explain again how the prosecution currently weighs the intention of violating the one-and-a-half-metre distance rule?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u224	I'm getting that out of policy enforcement prohibitions. That's part of August 11, 2020. I am prepared to give your Chamber another letter on this, because I have to confess that I would not be able to answer it directly from a legal point of view. But it's how that works. That is why comparing things like red light is indeed rather difficult. Because that's not the point of the intention at all. It's not like when you're flashed, you can say: sorry, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u225	That's right. In the case of violations, it is the rule that you should not put forward all kinds of arguments as to why you committed that offense with good intentions. I would be happy if the Minister could explain in more detail how the prosecution is dealing with it now. If that is not possible in this debate, then at another time, possibly in writing. We must avoid creating the impression in this debate that in all these thousands of cases the public prosecutor will look at the intention. That is very difficult, because we also know that a lot of the procedural statements that are now being drafted are very limited in terms of information and therefore it is often impossible for the public prosecutor to find out the intention of such an offence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u226	May I quote you? Mr President, is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u227	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u228	I said "you" by mistake. On page 7 there is the following: the tightening up of the additional measures, as indicated above, also requires greater commitment in addition to flexibility. And so on. And the enforcement on the streets by police and boas is always asking for common sense and appealing to the citizen's own responsibility. If, however, the citizen does not consciously follow or comply with measures, especially after they have been addressed by the enforcer, that is the three-part part which I am always talking about. I let a senior officer explain that to me. So that's what the intentional requirement is. But I would like to promise you that you will work out this in a letter, because you will now hear me read from a document I did not submit in advance. Let me explain it again in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u229	Finally, Mr President. This is already helping. Also in the debate between Mrs Marijnissen and the Minister, it became clear that the entire Chamber does not want everyone in the Netherlands to make a mistake, immediately having that fine or a record in the criminal record hanging over their head. It's really about people who deliberately violate the corona rules. That intention must be taken into account. The Minister's quote is somewhat reassuring in this respect, but I would like to make sure that it will actually be respected in practice throughout the whole chain up to and including the Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u230	We're dealing with a whole social minister here. That is actually very nice; I am glad to see that you have just celebrated your marriage in a normal way and that we have seen a normal social relationship with this minister. That makes me very happy, because apparently it is not so easy to get this normal behavior out of us. This minister is also intelligent. Although he has done rights and is not a mathematician, he has looked closely at the statistics. I think his assessment of the risk, based on those statistics, was extremely correct. The risk is extremely low. That's why it's no problem at all. However, this Minister is not consistent. That's something I kind of blame him for. After all, there are, of course, entrepreneurs who were fined €4,000 who have not broken the law in any way, but who are concerned with that problem. I understand that the coalition, of course, keeps the lines closed and that you will survive this debate. However, I would have liked this to result in a revaluation, due to your personal experience now, whereby we would proceed to a relaxation of the measures. For example, where we are going to think about making it a little more voluntary and appeal a little more to people's own responsibility, rather than this repressive policy. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u231	I am going to give the same answer as I gave to a question from Mrs Ouwehand, which was already in my introduction. I have literally said that I fully support the Corona policy and the resulting measures that we have agreed in the Cabinet. I will continue to promote them in the future. I don't want my own failure at my wedding party to be connected in one way or another. I'd say that's totally wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u232	I understand. I have also heard the answer you gave to Mrs Ouwehand. But those corona rules were drawn up at a time when we had far less information. We now have much more information and our Minister has made this very clear, because the statistics are now looking different. Isn't this a good time to start thinking about relaxing these measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u233	No. I would like to say two things very clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u234	You really need to keep your distance, Mr. Krol. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u235	I feel a fine coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u236	I'm afraid I don't have that authority, but I'll warn you. Mr Van Haga, oh no, the Minister spoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u237	I want to make two things very clear. One. I have often said this at those Monday evening press moments or during the few times I have been critically questioned here. As a cabinet, we have consistently followed the experts of the Outbreak Management Team. All these expertises are in there. I am truly convinced that we have the best experts you can imagine in these areas. Then colleague De Jonge put an extra expert on that. We've always been consistent in that. You have to stick with each other. That's one. Two. There is the prevention paradox here, which you undoubtedly know from literature. We, as Dutch people, have greatly reduced this curve, and then people have the idea of "what were we talking about?" Well, at the end of March, at the beginning of April there was an extremely urgent situation in the Netherlands. With all of us as Dutch, we got out of there. That still means that we need to be vigilant about keeping the corona virus under control.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u238	I understand you say that. I don't think you can or will say anything else tonight either. I would appreciate it if some experts would be added to the Outbreak Management Team, because that would give you a different perspective. I hope that you will take your own experience with you now and perhaps make some noise in the cabinet for relaxing the measures, because we are really at a different stage now than in March, April.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u239	At least they're two very separate things. My own experience has led me here tonight with reference to Abraham Kuyper to wear the penance rug. I have already said once or twice that I still support OMT's advice in full argumentative and scientifically proven conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u240	Mr Krol and then Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u241	When people hate something, it's that they feel like they're being measured with double standards. People really feel that, when they look at what happened at this wedding party and what they've been through, this is not judged in the same way. That is why several colleagues have asked today to cancel the fines imposed so far. That would be a relief for a lot of people. The Minister then says that that is not legally correct and that he does not want to intervene. But doesn't he have that demonstrative authority?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u242	It would be very wrong if I, as a minister, because I did not do well with the corona measures at my wedding, were to say: I would point out to the prosecutor that the fines for all those Dutch people should be torn apart. That is, in fact, quite flagrantly wrong. I tried... In any case, I explained to your Members in the course of the interruptions how that system is going, that we would have been addressed there and then, if it didn't help, announced. Nevertheless, because I think I should always set an example, I said last week that I will pay twice the fine, that is to say for my wife and me, to the Red Cross. I do this on a voluntary basis, and I can't put it anywhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u243	I notice that the Minister is not planning to pardon all these people. But if the Chamber asks for a general pardon for thousands of asylum seekers, it is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u244	Mr President, I do not think that was a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u245	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u246	I see that in the way he himself reflects on it, the Minister does not make any sense: it was not good. I hear him using terms like "dump" and "handicap." I don't see him running away from the fact that there's damage and that it has to be repaired. I understand the analyses that I have heard from the interruptions of the opposition, for example from Mr Klaver and Mr Asscher, who ask how much damage this has and how to repair it. All due respect for that. I also understand that that is a very difficult question for the Minister: how are you going to do that in the coming months, do you have a roadmap? That will have to come from the strength of the performance in the coming period, by showing that that reflection is not a one-off thing but a constant one, and that we understand the people. I think the Minister's showing that, too. There is a difference whether you deliberately break the rules or do things from very human traits that our whole life is going to be completely normal again, and hopefully very soon again, which is just not allowed right now. One of the things that could help is that, in the way we register things, we show that it is something that is completely normal but is not allowed for a moment, and that it will not be in the judicial documentation system in 20 years' time. I can hear the Minister say that he is open to all kinds of suggestions he hears and that he is involved in the evaluation. But I have not yet heard exactly that it is not the question or, but the question of how. That would be important. Of course, it's nice that we can conjure everyone and hopefully reassure them that it doesn't count. But I really like the fact that there are so many Dutch people who think: yes, even if it doesn't count, I am of unspoken behavior and I don't want to have a note, even though it doesn't count; I just want to have a clean record. The minimum variant is that, when the pandemic is over, we still delete it. I can hear the Minister say that he is going to see how that can be done, that he is taking all the suggestions and that there will be an evaluation, but I hope we can see that the question or question is passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u247	"Evaluation," that sounds a bit like on the long track. I have promised to show how enforcement has progressed in recent months in the foreseeable future. I would like to say that the number of fines has been extremely low for some time. When I heard it was on two for several weeks, I asked if it was by region, but that was for the whole country. That also says something about how they have been able to carry out a certain line in the meantime, and I think that is very good of our enforcers themselves. If we know that, we also know that the fines that will probably remain should really be the intensive cases or at least the people to whom Mrs Marijnissen gave a recognizable qualification for many. Then you could get a lot further into that. Then I find it difficult to do so, but perhaps in the second term something will come out of it, whether it is best to bring down that fine if it is below €100, no one will ever have such a note again, or whether you have to lay down in the law that covid fines will not be included in your judicial documentation. You will notice that the discussions that have already taken place in recent months have left me open to adjustments on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u248	I get that. I also understand that the Minister looks forward and says: from when and how do we do it with the law? I do not want to be principled, not that it differs in value whether your opinion is principled or not. If someone's beating up a boa or a cop, he's not just gonna get a fine for the distance. Then he does something that is permanently accountable and also after the corona period should simply remain in the system. You've just behaved improperly in front of an official in office who's doing bloody hard work. I'm talking about behavior that in itself in a very large percentage of your years of life is perfectly legitimate, normal and even commendable.. be nice to each other and give each other a hug... but in a short period undesirable. In that case, it should be deleted outside that short period of time. For me, that is the point that lies beneath it, regardless of how we deal with it now. You should be able to look back and say: that five feet, right, that you got a fine for it then, because that's when. We leave it to see if you've done it before or not, but when it's over, it's over and then we clean up the records at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u249	I'm gonna have to nuance it, by the way. There are also criminal offences that are still held elsewhere. I'm thinking about spitting in the face of aid workers and the like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u250	I'm assuming you'll have a different description of the crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u251	That's what I'm talking about. There are other crime descriptions. I just want to say this, but then too much of the lawyer in me wakes up. We really need to be careful that there are different types of crime that are at some point covered by the umbrella of corona crimes. That spitting's a good example. That's completely unrelated. I hear that word singing around the building. That's one. We're gonna have to screw that up separately. I understand you're saying, "Listen, it's gonna be five feet away." Suppose we have a vaccine in January and we can move on. Then I understand very well that you're saying that we don't have to see up to 20-something that someone's ever had a corona fine. But there is just the dilemma, because if someone, as it is appointed to the prosecution, at such a time that we were fighting the pandemic has said "I have no interest in it, dear enforcer, find it out" and the rule has continued to be broken, then that is something that should continue to apply, even if that 1.5 meter no longer applies. I hardly dare to use the word "general pardon" anymore, but you only solve that by saying that you are going to lower the fine to below €100, because then no one gets the judicial documentation for the corona fines.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u252	I made a similar distinction myself. Behaviors that weren't normal outside of corona times, so to speak, even a year ago, for example that you spit a boa or slap it or don't follow orders if they're reasonable, can stand. Let's not go legal, but the only thing I know about is war law. I do not want to compare it, but in a temporary situation you also have other rules that apply during that period and not outside that period. Now we have temporary rules for behaviors that are normally perfectly normal, but not at this time. So I make a distinction with the Minister that we do not have some sort of general pardon and say that we are going to whiten everything between that month and that month. There's more documentation under a fine than just that it's been found that there was a violation. It must therefore be possible to establish afterwards whether it was the 1.5 metres and whether it was necessary for law enforcement to act, whether someone insulted an official in office or did things for which he had also been fined outside the corona period. You're gonna have to leave it there. I believe that such a distinction can be made well and that we should now focus our search on how we do this efficiently. We have to reassure people that they don't have a record somewhere in ten years' time, because they were a little too stubborn when they sat next to each other on a bench.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u253	Yes, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u254	Yeah? Mr Segers, but through the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u255	A little more specific, building on this. Tonight we see a minister who says: "The approach works, look at the figures. I underline and support this. I want to keep working on the implementation." We have also seen a man who says: I have not always succeeded in following those rules. I think this is very fair. If we want to be in that business only people who are always perfect and always doing well, we actually ask for people who lie to us. 'Cause you can't. Every once in a while, we're gonna miss it, and you're gonna have to admit it. You're gonna have to come up with that. That's what the Minister did. Thank you for that. What we do see is that this sheds light on that enforcement. No matter how we think about the matter and about personal responsibility, I think that is where we have a very broad feeling that we now see how important the human dimension is. Where Mr Dijkhoff looks back and says 'let's see if we can get through something', I would like to underline this issue. If the cabinet really wants to think about lowering the level of the fine, so that this never leads to a note, this would have my warm encouragement. I hear the Minister thinking about that aloud. For my part, I come with the encouragement to include this explicitly in the broader consideration of the corona law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u256	I just want to make one misunderstanding very clear. What I've done wrong at my wedding has nothing to do with translating to human size. You said it was not possible to follow the corona measures properly. It's okay for me to say it failed. Period. The discussions I have had over the last few months and the criticism that has already been voiced from your Chamber are unrelated to that. And then we have not even discussed the point raised by Mrs Marijnissen, namely that €380 is quite a thump for people from the lower income groups. This is typically something where we see that we have to process a moving insight into it in order to be able to handle it properly, just as the virologists and others have a certain moving insight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u257	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u258	We do not want people to stay five feet away because Minister Grapperhaus says so or because there might be a fine. We want people to do this to protect each other and to make sure that the virus doesn't get around them. That's the deeper reason. Then everything else is a means. Everything else must be of service to that purpose. The evaluation and reviews of colleagues focus on various aspects. For one it weighs one heavier than the other. Everyone has to make their own decision. But I also hear introductory words like "Well, maybe I haven't always succeeded either. Imagine that every moment of the last six months was taken in a photo; I don't know if I'm always on it." I think this awareness lives on all of us. It's being shared more widely. That doesn't mean we're saying we're letting it go. For Mr Baudet, this is a reason to say: you see, it's all bullshit. No, it's not bullshit, because the virus is real. We've got to keep it five feet. Everything we say about that and a possible fine are just encouragements to stick to it. But it shows that people experience it as very unjust when they drag a note after them for a long time. That was the point made by Mr Dijkhoff. For me, the question at all is whether it should come to such a note. For my part, therefore, comes the warm encouragement to keep this under review once more when we start thinking about that law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u259	Mr President, I will do it quickly. We're gonna have to get a good look at it. Tonight Members said: I have not been able to do so. But that's exactly what the triple is for. If there was a enforcer in the area, he would say, "You need to keep a distance of five feet." If that were not to happen, he would say: 'Dear people, now it must be, because this cannot be done; otherwise I will have to make a report later.' Then when you pull a long nose, you get into that intention, as it's called. We are talking about the people who, in general, are in that intense atmosphere when we cross over or not make such a note. I want to make that clear. Again, even then I find it... Then people can still say that they've been bullied about it, or I know what. But it's the intense people we say we're gonna get rid of that note.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u260	Good. The Minister has been answering all the questions for over two hours. I have also, above all, given every opportunity to ask questions on this part. We still have three rulers. So I'd like to move on now...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u261	Can we have one minute of suspension?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u262	We're gonna suspend for one minute. After that, I would like to ask a maximum of four questions. You decide who the questions are asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u263	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u264	Thank you, Mr President. A great deal has been said about the issue that has just been raised. I would like to say a few more things about it because a number of speakers asked me in the first term how I look at the question of the credibility of the minister and cabinet. That is, of course, a logical question, always when there are issues that differ from what you want. First of all, let me say that I realize that if you're boa or if you're a catering entrepreneur or if you can't give your parents a hug for months, you're angry when you see that footage. I understand that very well. And although I think that the cabinet and Ferd Grapperhaus are credible, I also understand that there are people who will say: well, sorry, I'm not ready for that; I'm looking at it differently right now. I get that. Ultimately, of course, there is always the question of why a cabinet or someone is credible. In my opinion, this has to do, despite all the mistakes that have been made, with the joint success of the Netherlands in combating and mastering the first and hopefully the only wave of corona. That is, of course, very important. Secondly, if things go wrong, you have to name them. Leadership, in my belief, is always admitting your mistakes, always willing to say so. That is really very important. Then it is also important that we realise that, and I also said this yesterday at the press conference, that at the stage of the fight against corona in which we are now, it is logical that the very broad national consensus is now different. This was also referred to here in the Chamber. There are now more people asking questions, looking at themselves on the internet, wondering if it all makes sense. That is also why Hugo de Jonge and I have said that we are going to have more conversations, especially with the people who think differently about policy with the best intentions, who would like to see things differently. We also have a lot of conversations with people in society. In September we plan a session with the elderly. In October we have a meeting with people with vulnerable health. Those are groups that matter. It was also special as I had a meeting with young people yesterday. But apart from that, it's crucial that we have an eye for that larger group of people who do want to be. I think Klaver was referring to that. You see a group of people who are of good will, but they say... So that's separate from the few percent who deny it all. But there is a large group, or a larger group, of which it is very important that we keep it. So that's what we need to talk to. There is also always another consideration to be made when you talk about authority. It is also located in the person. The reason why I am fully behind Ferdinand Grapperhaus, behind Ferd Grapperhaus, is also related. Of course it is always a personal weighting. Over the past six months, we have been in a group of four people, with Martin van Rijn and now Tamara van Ark, Hugo de Jonge, Ferd Grapperhaus and I, a kind of daily administration of the approach to the corona crisis. I can only say that I am very impressed by his contribution to this and that I also see how important it is in relation to the security regions, the police unions and the whole security apparatus in the Netherlands and with what authority he does so. So I am convinced, truly convinced, precisely because he admits the error here, that he will restore that authority. Tonight the question was asked about the authority of the cabinet and the authority of the minister. I am convinced that both will be restored for the reasons I mention here. Of course, there will always be a personal weighting. But again, I started with it and I end with this part of the answer as well. I really realize that if you see the photos and you're a boa or a catering entrepreneur, you're thinking "what's happening there and how can this happen" and that you're angry about that. We just have to face that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u265	Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u266	The past teaches that it is usually the case that when the Prime Minister goes behind a minister, who then has to really worry, because they usually die quickly. I hope for the Minister of Justice that this is not the case now. But I would also like to say to the Prime Minister: it is not just about whether he has your confidence. It may be a matter of state law whether he has the confidence of this Chamber, but of course it is most important that this Minister has the confidence of the people in the country. At the difficult time in which we are sitting, we should not have a Minister of Justice who has no authority, not with you, but with the people he knows I've made up my mind, aso's. I won't repeat all these examples again, and who now think: well, that Grapperhaus, he's doing well himself and he's teaching me the lesson; I got a fine and he's not. So it's about authority, maybe not with you, because he's in your coalition, I get that too, but with that citizen who thinks: we don't believe him anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u267	My answer was primarily about the authority in society. I totally agree with Wilders: that is crucial. That is also inferred from why I am convinced that that authority will restore. I very much agree with Wilders. The question here is not whether I have faith in my own cabinet or in Ferd Grapperhaus. Then you'll get a Mutual Admiration Society. We're not waiting for that. No, the question is whether authority in society can be restored. I am convinced of that for the reasons I mention. That has everything to do with the person. That has to do with admitting a mistake. That also has to do with what has been said several times here tonight. I notice a certain kindness in many people who say: it is sometimes terribly difficult to keep to that. Everyone remembers shaking my hands with Van Dissel and the photos at the end of June that I'm sitting on a terrace in Dokkum. I'm thinking: it's in place, I'm gonna be okay anyway. You see those pictures later and you think: well, that's 1.5 meters; I really need to be sharper on that. Many MPs have appointed here how complicated it is to keep you very specific to those 1.5 meters. I am absolutely convinced that he is able to restore that authority to society and hence to the cabinet. There is a specific problem, which I mentioned in the direction of Mr Klaver, that there is a group of people in the Netherlands who have doubts about the policy anyway. I think that we should have a much more intensive discussion than we have done so far. That's my job, our job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u268	That's right, you have those photos. There will be pictures of everyone, including me, that we are very close to people, shake hands or get in the picture, but that's not the point. The point is that the Minister has taken the people in the country into account and has not done so himself. It's the Minister of Justice, for God's sake. You now say as Prime Minister: "No, I think it is not just about me, but also about the people in the country. I think that trust will work out. It's about the person and the apology." Well, the people in the Netherlands don't know the person at all, so what kind of argument is that? They may know the minister of what he once says on television at a press conference when he looks angry, but they don't know the person Ferd Grapperhaus at all. Maybe you know him and maybe I know him a little bit, but the people at home don't know him. What about apology? Yeah, there's a lot of people who think all that's fancy here in the Chamber too, but they do think, "Yes, if I apologize, I can't get away with it. I'm just gonna get a fine. I'm just getting a record or a criminal record. I can apologize a hundred times." Again, my mailbox is full of messages from people saying "I said sorry to the cop or the boa," but they were just thrown on the ticket. So that excuse isn't a reason either. You have not mentioned one reason why you think that the citizen has the confidence back in this minister. I think that the public's confidence has only diminished, not because he made a mistake, but because he has read the lesson. Why don't you go into that? Let me rephrase: do you agree with me that our country, our Kingdom, cannot now afford a Minister of Justice who has no authority?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u269	Reading the lesson, what Grapperhaus has done, is directed at people who deliberately break all the rules: who organize parties while they know the risks of it and who, in thinking through such a thing, do not let anything lie to those 1.5 meters. It's about people organizing corona parties at home. He said: if you do that without thinking about its consequences, it is antisocial. He didn't say that someone who once doesn't keep a foot and a half on the street, which can happen to us all, or who has a moment of weakness, is antisocial. He has said that about people who organize that massively, and he is absolutely right about that. I agree with Wilders. Of course the authority is now less. The question is whether that authority can recover and I am convinced of that. I am convinced that this is always a combination of recognition when something is not going well and proven competence. The people in the country may not know Geert Wilders, Mark Rutte or Ferd Grapperhaus personally. They don't have the chance to have tea, coffee, beer or anything with all of us. I can't. But people can see what we're doing here. The political confidence, the unique contract that we as politicians have with Dutch people, lies precisely in the fact that by what we do, people cannot see that directly, because you cannot talk to all of us about what we are capable of. I am convinced that the authority that Ferd Grapperhaus has built up in this society can have this kind of thumping.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u270	Finally, Mr President. I don't think so. Once again, I usually disagree with the Minister in political terms, but I do not deny that he had any authority from his point of view. But he really lost it. He's lost it. He's been over and over... Again, that is not because of breaking the rules; we have all done so once. He taught people the lesson, but then he did it himself. He wasn't fined or paid, but transferred money to the Red Cross. Other people get that. You have no idea, Mr. Rutte. You have been Prime Minister for ten years, but you should know how many people in the Netherlands are furious about that. Our mailboxes... Maybe not everyone's... A radio programme of the NIS this afternoon asked the callers how many people think there is still confidence in the Minister of Justice. I believe 90% said it's completely gone. I'm not saying that's representative, but in that half hour on the radio this afternoon, 90% said that trust is completely gone. We can't afford that. It may please you as a colleague, or as a primus inter pares, that you stand behind the minister, but that is bad for the Netherlands. You acknowledge that authority has now diminished. This means that in a difficult time we have a minister who does not have 100% authority. I don't even think he has any authority. You think he has less authority. Mr. Rutte, the Netherlands can't have that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u271	As I said, there Wilders is of course right in saying that there are people in the Netherlands who say the following. I don't need to look in Wilders' mailbox for that; I also know that in my environment. There are people, whether they are people in safety, with the boas, police, people in the hospitality business or people in other places in society. People who were indeed unable to give that hug themselves. At the same time, if you talk to those people and say that there have been excuses, that we are not saints, that we are not infallible, neither are we politicians, plus just the fact that this man has built a great authority in the Netherlands over the past three years, then I am convinced that it will succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u272	Mr Wilders' final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u273	Last question, but not about this. We saw you stand behind the minister last week. Some footage came out. Again, I am not concerned about the offence, but about the fact that photos came out at the time and that you were standing behind the minister. Later it appeared yesterday that there were more photos available. Did Minister Grapperhaus tell you last week that he wasn't alone on the terrace outside... We can all remember that picture from De Telegraaf, some other newspapers, Hart van Nederland or I know where it comes from. He was standing on that terrace and it's become known. Then the Minister said that it was actually that; otherwise we kept to everything inside. Again, I think that's bullshit rules, but those were his words. Did he tell you then, Mr. Prime Minister, that there were other photographs where he indeed embraced his mother-in-law, where he was indeed close to people, that more happened? Did he tell you the whole truth last Friday? Or didn't he tell you and you didn't find out until new pictures were published yesterday? That is an important question, because it is also a question of whether the Minister deliberately or unconsciously fooled you or, well, at least didn't tell the truth, or whether he told you everything right away. "Mark, there's more coming" or "Mark, this is it," what was the story?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u274	He just went into that himself. He said, "I've been playing the movie for the past few days." I've spoken to other guests. I've had to conclude that I've been carried away farther than I thought. He just told me. By the way, when he sent that letter last week, he did not say that it will remain with that one photo. It is not for nothing that he said in the letter: there have unfortunately been times when the 1.5 meter has not been maintained. That's what he said in the letter. I'm just telling you that the moment with his mother-in-law, as he has just explained here, was only when it came to being realized, because of course that has been an emotional moment. Just a little while longer, huh? What could be the motive of Grapperhaus to... If there is someone in the bushes who takes a picture of that Bordess scene and you would think very consciously "I hope they don't have a picture of me and my mother-in-law too," you would be very naive if you didn't think "that picture is coming out too." So I believe him when he says that that moment, the emotion of that marriage and the specific circumstances of him, his girlfriend and his mother-in-law and what has happened to it over the past few months, was a special moment that he no longer registered as a reminder in the sense of: oh, that must have been a one-and-a-half-metre-chancing moment. I understand that very well, but in general terms, also in the letter to the Chamber, he says: moments. He's not talking about one moment. He just explained that particular moment, and I totally understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u275	Then I have Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver and then Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u276	Sloppy, laconic, antisocial. Not in the amusement park. Not with a glass of wine. Not on the beach. Ferme statements, which were understandable in a context in which the minister had to send a strong message. But now we know that its authority has been undermined by its own actions. My question to the Prime Minister as a corona prime minister is: does he recognise that if there were another press conference to be held tomorrow and this minister out of that text, it would make much less impression on society, that it would have much less authority and that it would be less effective?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u277	Yeah, in the very short term, that's true. That's why I say: if people are currently in the police or boas... It's not about everyone, thank God. I think a lot of people still have a lot of respect and already forgive him. But there will undoubtedly be people, also wider in society, who say, "Hey, what happened there? You can't do this!" I have just explained that it is my belief that leadership is a that you acknowledge that that mistake has been made and b that you explain it well and go through the dust before that. He does. Two. It is very important that the cabinet has proven with society that it has managed to get things under control, at a level that is still not enough but at least at the moment does not pose a threat of a second wave. Three. The person himself is someone who has a lot of authority in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u278	Then to the Prime Minister's own role, because he is the leader of the cabinet that is currently required to take and communicate on these difficult decisions. We know that communication affects behavior, so that is a very important element of managing that crisis. But people have experienced that sometimes the cabinet also distributes fairly firmly. See the quotes I quoted. But at some point the young people also got wiped out because they would party too much. Aunt Sjaan and Uncle Han got kicked by this Prime Minister, because they were going to hug again. Why am I quoting that? Because the feeling that people now have is that the cabinet is very strict against society and very soft for itself. In that light, it is not strong when you say: I think that will recover over time. So my question is what the Prime Minister himself is going to do to restore the authority of his cabinet now that the Netherlands has seen that there are different standards and criteria for their behaviour than those of its own cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u279	I do not think that this is felt at the heart of society as long as we recognise it when a mistake has been made. That's what it starts with. Two. We must also discuss this in this House. You're here on behalf of 17 million Dutch. We'll talk about that here. People are following this debate. That's not the end of it. I'm not saying it for nothing. When I say here that I have that confidence, I realize that that does not apply to everyone. When I say here that I have faith, I realize that there are also specific groups whose trust is really less now. Then the question is: are you sure that we, as a team but also together with society, have done in recent months the things that were needed to get corona down to a level that at least doesn't threaten that second outbreak? And indeed, I agree with Asscher in his term: we are not there yet, because the numbers are still too high; things still have to happen. But there is no more acute crisis. I am convinced that this combination of facts provides the basis for the restoration of authority. One more thing. I am foreman of the team, as a corona premier, as "foreman of the corona counter" as Asscher called it. Someone on my team is very important because of their functioning and their contribution to the corona fight in the last six months. He really made a mistake here, but I don't throw him out of the team because that mistake is not good for the authority right now, which I agree with Asscher by the way. No, I think it is important that he admits that mistake and b that we are now moving forward with each other to restore confidence, also to engage in dialogue with people who have doubts about policy. That was supposed to happen anyway, completely apart from that. If I were to say 'get the hell out of here', it would be very damaging, also for the effectiveness of the fight against corona, because I would lose someone from my high-class team who is currently making a major contribution to the fight against these problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u280	Mr President, my final question on this point. I understand the dilemma. It is a pleasant collaboration; you work very closely together under high pressure and difficult conditions, so that is not light either. You act like I said "shut him out," but that's not what I asked. The question was more: if you move into a lot of people who really suffer from those measures... Take the example of the pub owner.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u281	Yeah, I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u282	First you get rid of your pension, then you work a week for the two-day sales, and then you know, I've been calling people on those rules all the time. In the hospitality industry, it's really not three times to warn and ask: if a enforcer comes along, you know that it could cost you an awful lot of money and maybe your business. In that context, it gets to you deeper than: yes, but he admitted his mistake. My question was mainly about what the Prime Minister is going to do to restore the authority of his cabinet. He has faith in this minister. We've taken note of that; that's his assessment. But I think that the problem that has arisen here, not intensively, is a problem for the authority of the cabinet. I call the Prime Minister to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u283	And rightly so. But if it were true that I would say "he admitted a mistake and that's enough," we would have a problem. Second. If I said "Grapperhaus is such a cozy, cool peer in the team and that's why he can't get out," I also have a problem. I didn't say that. It's not about the cosiness in our club and that we're such pleasant colleagues working together. I thought I'd hear that, so I'd like to put that very precisely on my side, just to be safe. I'm not trying to build friends' clubs. There's no point in politics. You can build friendly relationships. Fine. We like each other and other people here, but that is not the point. That's bycatch. The main task is to stand in front of you, in the previous cabinet and this cabinet, to take responsibility in difficult times. It's not about building a friend's club, it's about trying to do a job with the best imaginable people. There's really a huge problem right now. My observation is that Ferd Grapperhaus is making a very big contribution to solving that problem, and that he has now made a mistake for his credibility. The only thing I warn you about is that it is also very damaging for me as a leader to say that he should get out of here because the mistake he has made is not right for the credibility of a group of people, such as the café owner who quoted Mr Asscher. And so you always have to make a weighting. I am convinced that the combination of making full excuses, the personal authority of the man towards society to restore it, that is there in full, and the authority of the team as a whole is the best way to continue, because together with society, with 17 million people, we have been able to cope with the corona crisis over the last few months, and not the departure of Ferd Grapperhaus. On the contrary, it would be even bad if that were to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u284	The Prime Minister is talking about the corona team in the cabinet, but the team that has to fight it is actually much bigger. Yesterday at the press conference, it was said again that the regions are becoming much more important. It is precisely the mayors of the security regions who have to make the most difficult decisions at the moment, whether it is about closing the Bazaar in Beverwijk, sometimes cafés or the Bijenkorf in Amsterdam. We see how that wrings, we see that people think she's being wronged. I understand very well that it is said that the authority may be affected in the short term, but that does not make Mr Grapperhaus a bad director. I agree. But it may just be that tomorrow we have to close another very large location somewhere in the country. This is made difficult by pointing to the minister who had his own corona party. That is why I am saying, on the reasoning I would normally follow one hundred percent of the Prime Minister, it is recovering again: there is not that much recovery time. Tomorrow De Bijenkorf can be closed again somewhere, or a large catering establishment. There is no such recovery time for the authority that is being discussed. That's so weird about this time of year. That's what makes it hard. That also complicates this debate. Why does the Prime Minister see this recovery time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u285	I understand this reasoning. It is true in itself: if the authority is less and you have to close something, then at that moment you have a problem. If I say that I am convinced that that authority will recover, Klaver is right that it will take time. Do you have that time? If you go through that reasoning, there's no room for any kindness. Then there is no room for any kind of mercy for people who in themselves function excellently and who make a mistake and admit it. The Dutch society as I estimate it and think I know it, I think leaves room for that. He is able to say: here is a man who works excellently, who makes a mistake here all of the Netherlands will also say that with his personal history he has been very successful that he can be happily married who admits that it has gone wrong... Of course, it is always a consideration, but I am convinced that the Netherlands can finally accept that. The authority must be restored. If you ask people right now, see Wilders' mailbox and see the people who say to me that they're angry about it, I get their anger. But there is mildness in the Netherlands. There is mercy in the Netherlands. That's not the end of it. If you go through Klaver's reasoning and say, "it's not gonna come out now, it's gonna go out" you're not gonna leave room for that mistake. Worse still, you'll tell someone who's working on a small core team to play such an important role with so much success to do along with the security regions the whole security side and the entire organizational side of the corona fight, that they have to leave. We can't afford that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u286	I am glad that the Prime Minister agrees with me that there is now a problem in the short term. I think a lot of people, even here in the Chamber, have feelings about what the Minister has done. It's been a mistake, but it's not a mortal sin either. That's right, but to say there's no mercy if you send him away now... There's still a world in between. What I want to hear from the Prime Minister is that there is a problem in the short term. To say 'we wait for it to be restored', I do not think that it is enough for this debate. Yeah, the last thing you need to do is send someone away. Then that problem is solved. I get it when you say he's too important to fight this crisis, but there's got to be something in between. What opportunities does the Prime Minister see for us to ensure that in the short term too, this is important in the fight; every day there is a need for us to strengthen all those people in the line of fire, the boas, the police officers, the mayors, in the opportunities they have to take those difficult decisions that need to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u287	You're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u288	Actually, I'd like to know more about that. There really is something between having or not having mercy and restoring credibility in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u289	That is a fair question, but I understand that Mr Klaver is open to weighing his opinion on that point tonight. That is the downside of that question. Again, I think the question is correct. There is a need to work on rapid recovery. That means tomorrow, as Grapperhaus said, consultation with police and boas. In any case, he has intensive consultations with mayors of security regions. Last Monday, when the crisis began, he opened it up. He said, guys, something went wrong here that's bothering you; sorry about that. Yesterday, I was able to talk to the big cities. That meeting was just a coincidence. It's very much appreciated how he did that there. Those are the first steps. Just work hard and engage in dialogue with the Netherlands, regardless of this issue. That is necessary now anyway. It was also a big theme in the press conference yesterday. I'm just gonna call it the Claver Group. That's not about him personally, it's about the group he appointed. It is a group which does not belong to the deniers, but which does question the policy. This will open up the conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u290	Mr. Klaver. Your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u291	I think it means something else. If this minister as leader of the team says "I need this minister, but I see that there is a problem with the authority," that means that he will have an even greater responsibility. That is not the responsibility he already bears, but also the responsibility that lies in the step he must take forward. He will have to play an even greater role when it comes to enforcement. I am not talking about controlling the device, but about the whole communication that comes with this. That's not just for Minister Grapperhaus. It is not just up to him to talk to the police, the boas and the mayors, because it actually requires a greater role for the Prime Minister. I believe in a society where there is mercy. I believe that we must be careful to deal with people too quickly for mistakes to be made. We all do. This debate really wouldn't have taken place if we hadn't been in this crisis or if it had been the Minister for Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u292	I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u293	We have this because there is now a serious problem in implementation. In fact, I expect the Prime Minister to say here, when he's standing in front of his team like this, something that advocates for him too: that means that I will take on a greater share of that responsibility to make sure that we pull those people who are in doubt across the line. He should say here: I will step forward even more to help my rulers in the country, the police and the boas to act with authority. That authority is still 100% with this Prime Minister, but he will have to step further forward. Is the Prime Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u294	Yes, where appropriate. But I do not know whether it is going to help with the authority of Grapperhaus and I do not think it is necessary, given the reactions he is currently receiving from the unions and mayors of the security regions, that I am now going to get in the way of him by saying 'well I am going to do that'. I don't think that's true, but I do agree with Klaver when he means that in my job I can never run away from the final responsibility. The Dutch presidency is on paper a rather powerless post, namely someone who is allowed to hold the hammer in the Council of Ministers. But over the years, of course, he has become the figurehead of government policy and I realize that like no other in this corona crisis. Hugo de Jonge and I sometimes joke "what am I doing in that press conference?" He is Minister of Health and he is responsible for the Wpg, but it is inevitable that I stand there as foreman of the cabinet, knowing that most of the work is of course with Hugo de Jonge. So I always will. Where I can help colleagues to be more effective by stepping forward, I will not doubt it for a second. But taking over the contact with police and mayors now is not going to help and is not necessary to restore the authority of Grapperhaus, because he himself can do that very well. But I get the underlying point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u295	The Minister has gone through the dust. That's sad but right, I think. I thought the Minister's story was a lot less strong when it came to the moment when he was honest about what happened. That is what my question to the Prime Minister is about. How does he feel about that? Does the Prime Minister not agree, for example, that the letter of apology written by Minister Grapperhaus... I will not say "bagallising," because it was a letter of apology: we have tried so hard. The Minister also said: as a groom, I tried very hard. But as a minister, he just hasn't been honest at the time. This was evident from the photos, which unfortunately were published later. The letter said "we exchanged it for elbows," but the photos just really showed something else. How does the Prime Minister judge that? So I don't mean so much what the groom Grapperhaus was trying to do, because I believe so. I just mean the moment when Minister Grapperhaus should have been honest and he needed to be honest about that, because he wasn't then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u296	The letter says, "I'm sorry. The Minister should always set an example." That's the core phrase in the letter he sent to the Chamber last Thursday. I think that's an essential part of that letter. It's important, too. Today the media gave the impression that this would have happened under my pressure. That's not true. Of course, I call colleagues when they come into the media with something that is not going well, but I did not have to urge Grapperhaus to send this letter. Not for a second! But of course there's contact. So that contact isn't there because I said, "Now you have to send a letter like that." That was also the suggestion. I think this letter is very strong. Then there is the point that he himself explained in his term, namely that it has been said: now those pictures appear and you also appear with an arm to have your mother-in-law on the picture. Why didn't you tell me Thursday? He explained that. He says: I have replayed that film over the last few days and I just didn't realize how that happened last week in the emotion of that moment, being groom at that wedding. I just said: what motive could Grapperhaus have not to mention that fact if he had known that last Thursday and he would have remembered it sharply? After all, he also knew that photos were being taken. Well, if you know anything about people taking pictures in the bushes, it's that there'll be more pictures. Then it's not just that one picture. If you knew you were with your mother-in-law, he would have told you last week. So I believe him, also because I trust him and I know what the man's like. I also understand how it can work emotionally if you've had such a marriage. Then there are just a few beautiful emotional moments, especially because of the very specific circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u297	I understand that the Prime Minister says he trusts his minister, but this is, of course, about the idea that a minister is not fair. It's only when he's really in trouble that he's really honest. It's not like the groom Grapperhaus forgot that for a moment. After all, the Minister himself has just told us that he had first made some sort of statement outside. Then he thought, "Oh, what's going on here?" Then he went to the ministry, as a minister, and then he got the hang of it. Then came the apology letter, and it didn't say that. That apology letter didn't say the truth. That truth turned out to be an option for the minister, and it didn't come up until the moment those pictures leaked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u298	Then she doesn't trust what Grapperhaus says about it, and I do trust it. He has literally said that he has had to conclude, thinking again over the weekend, that he has gotten more carried away than he previously thought. I'm also asking in Derrick- or Tatorttermen: what motive can you have, if you know that you did remember that on Thursday, not to mention that? 'Cause you know it's coming out. After all, there was a photographer. Why wouldn't he have photographed that, too? Of course, it has a few minutes that they were out there, photographing. And he says in the letter: there have unfortunately been moments, plural. I think that's a final statement. Then Mrs Marijnissen says: the image. I agree with her. That image is what she's sketching. But then it's our job, I think, to "peel off" as Wouter Koolmies would say, exactly how it is. I think it is very credible what Ferd Grapperhaus says about it, namely that it was just not in his head at the time that Thursday, and that he, thinking about it later, and then with those pictures today, says: Jesus, yes, that happened. I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u299	But the problem is that most people in the Netherlands, and especially those who have experienced marriages or funerals, do not believe this. You register very carefully all the time: oh, I would like to hug, but that is not possible. So you're recording that. You really do know if that didn't go well. And so it is a much more blatant violation of the corona rules than that in the moment you are less than 1.5 meters apart. I have had this debate with the Prime Minister before. The standard to which he wants to keep his directors, his cabinet, should be that the complete truth should come on the table when it is necessary, and not run after it when facts roll out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u300	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u301	In this respect, the Prime Minister really needs to make a more precise assessment here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u302	But if I thought Grapperhaus was lying that he didn't remember that Thursday, I'd have a problem with him. I don't believe that. I believe what he's saying. There's also a reason I believe that. One, just practical: why, if there was a photographer in the bushes, would he keep that a secret? Then it really comes out if you knew: oh, that's what happened. He would have told me Thursday. Two, I also get it from just the emotion of the moment, from what he just said about his own mother-in-law and how they put food out there for four months. Then I can also imagine that there is such a moment that she says: "Oh, how wonderful that all of this is happening now, with that marriage," that there is just as emotion and that you don't register that at the time as "oh, I can't do that hug." That's not good, that hug, but I can imagine, just like you don't remember it last Thursday when those first pictures show up. I believe that. That's a matter of trust. Did this man give one reason, here in the Chamber or in society, not to have that confidence in him when he says so? It's not someone who's been known to cheat on a large scale, is it? Not at all, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u303	Mr President, I will leave it at that, because I also have questions for the VWS Minister, but I am not convinced.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u304	I think that's hard. I say this to Mrs Ouwehand, who I know as someone who is hard on content but is also a mild person. Then I think, "How can you say that?" I think it's really amazing. She is going to weigh it in her group in a moment if there is a vote of no confidence. Am I gonna support that or not? Well, then you see how it's gonna end. Then I ask her: weigh this moment again. What reason has this man given not to trust him when he says this? If you also know the history of that marriage and what particular personal history he has, what has happened to his wife over the past few years, but also to his mother-in-law, isn't it credible? Besides, the motive isn't there, because those pictures would show up anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u305	Second question, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u306	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister is asking me a direct question and an important question in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u307	A very personal question also for Mrs Ouwehand, whom I very much respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u308	And a very personal one. But if the Prime Minister has listened carefully, he has heard that the Party Party for Animals was willing to forgive this minister, precisely because we know... We give it to other people, too. We're all trying to follow those rules as best we can. But it's hard, especially when you're at a funeral and you see your uncle crying and you can't put an arm around him because you're aware of those rules. My experience, like all the people I speak to, is that you record it every time you do hug someone or give a hand, because it goes so strongly against our nature and because we have been asked not to. You know that. That makes the story that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice are trying to defend here unbelievable. I'd say don't. Just say, "I should have reported that right away in that first statement. It's not like I didn't realize until later that I hugged my mother-in-law. I just deliberately left it out. I shouldn't have done that."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u309	But, Mrs Ouwehand, you say with great certainty that you are sure that Grapperhaus lied on this point. You're saying it can't be true that you don't remember that. Then it is not unreasonable for me to ask the following question. If you speak so much of that distrust of someone, first of all, the surrounding evidence must be true. That's because there was a photographer in the bushes and he must have really photographed it. So it would have come true if you had thought: I do not mention it, because that is very annoying. Two. For the past three years, the man himself hasn't indicated any reason to have that distrust in him, has he? I pay with Mrs Ouwehand to weigh that one more time. I know her as a mild person. She's hard on content, but mild on personal relationships. He's earned that kindness now, hasn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u310	Last Sunday, partymate and VVD-prominent Neelie Kroes was on television. She said, "I don't understand why the marriage hasn't been postponed." Does the Prime Minister agree with his partymate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u311	No, not at all. That's a personal consideration. It's a private decision you make whether, in any circumstances, you let a marriage go on or not. But if you let anything go on, there are rules. They've made an extreme effort to comply with those rules. That went wrong the moment they were outside on the platform. A few things about that burgundy went wrong, too. That really went wrong. He admits that, too, equestrian. But they have it further planned in detail with numbers and everything and everything. You can organize marriages even now in corona time, only you have to make sure that you can stay at that 1.5 meter distance. So I don't agree with Kroes, with all due respect that I have for Neelie Kroes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u312	There are a lot of people who have also let their marriage go through or had a funeral. They didn't even have the choice to let it go through with it and they feel very differently treated. What are you gonna say to these people from now on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u313	I tell those people I get it. I understand that when you see that footage, you say, "How could that have gone so wrong?" Here's what I'm gonna say to these people. One. Apologies are being made for that. Things can go wrong. You can't, but it can happen. Two. This person has shown the Netherlands in the last three years that he works day and night for the Netherlands and that he does this very reliably and also with a lot of authority. I think that's an element that you can also consider. When I appeal to Dutch values such as kindness and grace, I do so with that in mind. Then I am convinced that perhaps not tonight, but in the end it will also resonate with a lot of people through its performance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u314	I'd like to continue with that kindness and grace. It's a fact that everyone can make mistakes. As far as I'm concerned, everyone can apologize for that and no such fine. I'm really sorry about this. Unfortunately, I could not ask the Minister himself because my questions were up, but I am now asking the Prime Minister. It's actually against our legal system. If you break the law, the intention doesn't matter, other than in crimes. That's where it plays a role whether you committed it intentionally or not. In the case of violations, it's just not. I checked the fact code D526 in the enforcement instruction on COVID-19. That is not what the Minister is talking about at all. Nor does it say whether it counts whether it was your intention to violate the measures. I feel to the Minister that in his opinion he was not in violation because he had no intention of violating the measures. What I would really like to ask the Prime Minister is whether he is prepared to change that enforcement instruction for boas and other enforcers such as the police and the legal instruments in such a way that it should be aimed at the intention if those measures have been infringed. So that the real intention is to violate the corona measures and that only in those cases will a fine, a penalty decision and possibly a note follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u315	In my view, Minister Grapperhaus has promised Mr Jetten a broader letter on this subject. I'm not a lawyer, so I understand 10% of what Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen just said. So I can't answer that. I don't know if she... Are you a lawyer, Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen? Maybe it is, when I hear it like that. I don't. I'm a simple historian, so I only get 10% of it. I do know that if there had been a boa or a policeman who had seen it, who had first said: boys, this cannot be; break up. If they hadn't done that after a while, he would have said: if you don't do it now, you really have a problem. The third time there were fines followed. I think that's how the system works. That's all I know. Furthermore, we really need to take it off in writing, is my suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u316	I do not know whether the Minister will speak in the next term. However, I would very much like to ask whether he would also like to include in his letter whether enforcement instruction 526 could be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u317	I'll take that. He'll reflect on it. I will not admit that he is going to do it, because I do not know what I will promise, but he is going to reflect on Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's thoughts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u318	Yeah, okay. Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u319	I like the Prime Minister standing in front of his team. It doesn't always end as well as it does. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he understands that a lot of people are grumpy and say that the minister should actually have been punished. Would the Prime Minister support his minister if he said he was going to introduce a more lenient regime?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u320	We need to separate that from this case. If there had been a policeman there, the minister would have treated him just like everyone else. I assume that is the Dutch rule of law. If I drive by red or if Mrs Van Brenk does, we will simply be fined if that is established. If there had been a policeman or boa in the neighborhood who had seen that burgundy scene, I imagine he would say: boys, this really can't be; break up! If they don't do it, now you've got a problem. And if they didn't do it by then, there'd be a fine. So I think that's where the rule of law works. Except there wasn't anyone around at the time. The other discussion that has just taken place is completely separate from this issue and is about something completely different. It's about the following. Grapperhaus talked about the chief of police and that they're consulting. Those are consultations I myself attended a few times, in which he said that we really should be careful that we in the Netherlands do not go crazy in a number of things. It's all supposed to be supportive. That means that it is very good to think about the level of the fine in conjunction with the impact it has on getting a vog at the stage we are in. Anyway, Grapperhaus said all about that. It also comes back under the Corona Act. But I'd like to disconnect it from this, from marriage. One more answer to Mrs Van Brenn on the subject of mourning. That date is not yet known, because there is another problem with that, unfortunately. But we hope to find out as soon as possible and then we're going to communicate it. However, that date is not yet known. We had a date, but today a problem arose. I need to see what's going on, but we'll get back to you as soon as we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u321	When is "as soon as possible"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u322	I will return to what is "as soon as possible" in the second term. I want to see if I can make it happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u323	Your last question, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u324	My final question, thank you, Mr President. I was just saying to the Prime Minister that, as far as I am concerned, the authority of the Minister of Justice is gone and is certainly away from the Dutch citizen. And then he said, after the Minister of Justice himself had already said so, we are talking to the boas and the police. Now was just when we were debating here, Mr. Prime Minister, on NPO1 Mr. Jan Struijs guest, President of the Dutch Police Union. He said that yesterday he had an hour and a half with Minister Grapperhaus and that they said that the minister was very damaged and that the police had suffered a severe dent. A quote: we're just not totaled. That was before the second series of photos came out last night. It was only yesterday afternoon because of last Friday's first photo, the picture of the terrace. The chairman of the Dutch Police Union then says "we are just not completely lost." With such a Minister of Justice, we cannot conduct a policy in the Netherlands. Surely you cannot insist that you think, hope and believe that confidence has been restored if the chairman of the largest police union in the Netherlands, Mr Struijs, says: we are not yet completely lost by the action of this minister? That was just before the second round of photos. I think they're having another conversation tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. You have to face the truth. This minister has failed, has lost faith, may the police remain seated for a while, but he has almost completely lost them. We cannot have such a minister here!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u325	I have not for nothing started saying that I realize that if we are having this debate, there will be many people in the police, within the group of boas, within the hospitality industry that I have explicitly called......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I have also said that if I say that I have faith in this person and I am convinced that the Netherlands will retain it, there will also be people who disagree with me. That's right. But at the end of the day, we have to deal with each other. It is my belief that continuing with Ferd Grapperhaus on the team is necessary, with all the authority he has in the Netherlands, with the confidence that a lot of people have in him, although they are now angry about this mistake, which he admits, and because of the particular task that lies ahead: to engage in conversation with many people in the Netherlands who want to talk more about the policy we conduct, also epidemiologically, and about fighting the virus. We need him very much on the team and he has that authority in the Netherlands. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u326	It's nice how the minister here asks for kindness and mercy. I didn't expect that soon, actually. I like it, because it also says something about how we should be soft as a society. It is an appeal to the House of Representatives: be gentle and have mercy on this minister. When I hear the Chamber like that, I don't think there's a complete involuntary presence there. But I would also like to put back the question of kindness and grace. Can I therefore expect this cabinet to show kindness and mercy to young people, for whom it is very difficult to keep that distance and who are perhaps just too close together on a lawn in a park? Is there also kindness and mercy for all those people who may also break the rule or who fail at some point? Or for all those Moroccan boys that I hear the Prime Minister and this cabinet constantly speak very firm words about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u327	About Moroccan boys?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u328	When it comes to kindness and mercy, is this an important political moment here, when we are asked to do so to a colleague in the cabinet? Can I therefore expect this from this cabinet to all those young people, who are actually having a very difficult and difficult time and who are being taken the measure? Can I see the kindness of this Prime Minister in the near future?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u329	I believe that this is a subject of this debate, which it is. Only, that's quite separate from the question of marriage. So we have the question of marriage and everything that has happened and everything that causes irritation and anger in a lot of people. Legally, I say that there would have been the same thing if the police had been there as in any other place. I understand what Klaver is asking for here, also given the stage in which we are now dealing with the fight against the virus and the support in the Netherlands for the type of measures we need to take. It's inevitable that we'll stick together to that horrible five feet, the moth. It's the only way. The fact that we now have this very big distance, means that if I had it now, Klaver wouldn't get it. If we're closer together, there's a risk. There's just no alternative to that 1.5 meter. What Klaver is asking for, in my opinion, is that also a theme in this discussion is how we will deal with the imposition of fines in the future, also under the covid law. And how do you deal with how that is then recorded in the judicial systems? That's a theme, I agree with him. But if he connects that to Grapperhaus and marriage, I think that's the wrong link.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u330	Mr. Klaver, last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u331	It's also about the tone. I think that the tone of a Minister of Justice who has gone well over the line is very mild. I have heard this Prime Minister and also the Minister of Justice judge extremely harshly about young people, and perhaps we should take the context with us. If you live with your family somewhere, maybe three-way back, with four annoying little brothers and sisters, sometimes you look for an outlet and sometimes you cross the line. You can't do that, just like this minister. But I have difficulty in this debate with the kindness shown by the Prime Minister to the Minister of Justice, whom he asks of the Chamber, and who has in no way been shown in recent times in the way in which people talk and deal with young people. If he's here asking for that kindness... I see the Minister of Justice and the self-confidence is perhaps beginning to come back a little bit here saying: well, it is not. That's the way it is, of course. Young people have simply been thrown away as if they are causing major problems and are not complying with the rules. Requesting lightness for a Minister of Justice... Then I would also like to hear from the Prime Minister that I am doing the same kindness, because mistakes can also be seen in this cabinet in the future as talking about young people who are sometimes out of line.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u332	That appeals to me. I had the fourth meeting with young people yesterday. One of the contestants said to me, "You made a mistake." She said, "You had that press conference," not the previous one, but the first one after the summer. Then we saw the numbers rising and we saw that especially among young people the number of infections increased. She said, "The tone you chose wasn't the right one." She said to me: "You have said that you are going to consult young people; good that we are here now." We had a conversation about the climate and the housing market and that sort of thing. She said: "You didn't call us that there was a problem especially for young people, asking what the tone should be, how you do it; then you would have said it quite differently." I said, "Well, point tasks; that's a very good point." Hopefully, in the second and third press conferences after the summer or after the break, we will be able to hear a different tone. Because I agree with her. That doesn't alter the fact that the problem was with those young people, at least at the time, because you saw those infections. I can't charge Hugo the Young because I did that part of the press conference. My tone there was not effective, although the infections are now lower, but not because of my tone. I recognize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u333	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u334	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We've been meeting here in this room since 10:00 this morning, so we're just getting started.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u335	Yeah, from 10:15.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u336	I think I want to divide the questions as follows. First the questions about testing, then the questions that touch on the lessons learned-course and then a number of questions that are more difficult to classify. I have agreed with Mr Van Ark that the questions on personal protective equipment will be answered by her, so that there will be no duplication. First of all, test it. There is hard work by the GGD's, hard work by the laboratories, and yet it squeaks and cracks. We see that while the stakes were on 30,000 tests a day, the demand is actually even greater. Mr Dijkhoff is right to ask: where does it come from? That has two backgrounds. We can see that demand is rising very strongly. The suspicion is that, while the policy is that you will only be tested if you have complaints, there is more than just that group being tested. What also plays into it is that the maximum capacity is ticked every day, sometimes even over it. Yesterday, for example, we tested 32,000 times. This means that waiting times are increasing and that the laboratory capacity cannot cope with demand at the moment. In addition, we have seen that, where the stakes were focused on the maximum capacity of 30,000 in this month, everything we would have liked to put on top of that as a reserve of capacity, was nevertheless disappointing. We saw that it was disappointing in, for example, the new machines that were purchased, the extent to which they were quickly operational, the extent to which they could be supplied in addition. We see that there are operational losses, so a run you run on such a test machine should be back tomorrow, because the test results should be there, while today's set is only three quarters full. Then you have more cut losses in the use of materials. All that kind of practical stuff. It takes a little longer for the pooled analysis to come about, so you can run multiple swabs on one test kit at a time. For example, there are all kinds of setbacks in the execution, so that the spare capacity that you actually wanted to have left behind is just not there. At the moment, therefore, we will have to make every effort to further increase the laboratory capacity. We are doing a number of things for that right now. We have contracted two German laboratories that can run a few thousand additional tests a week each time on their way to October, up to a sum of 45,000 additional tests, on top of the 30,000 of today. Those, on their own, are very large numbers. At the same time, with the knowledge of the last few months, we are going to have some success over the arm or that is going to help us out completely. The second thing we have to do. I therefore respond to Mr Asscher's question as to what we can learn from Denmark. Denmark, like Germany, has very large laboratories. There are no such large laboratories in the Netherlands. We've turned on all the labs that can run this kind of PCR tests. We started with the MMLs, the medical microbiological laboratories. We then turned on the veterinary labs. Sanquin's on, that's very big. In addition, first-line laboratories are switched on and a number of commercial labs are added. But really large laboratories such as those in Germany and Denmark, we do not have them at the moment. I'd like that. We are talking to a number of initiators to see if we could also build that type of lab capacity in the Netherlands. For the longer term, Dijkhoff and Heerma both mentioned the rapid tests and all kinds of innovative test methods. They are less reliable at the moment, so they will have to be well validated, but that in itself is no reason not to use them. For example, in asymptomatic testing, what you would like to do is to use that type of test. As long as it doesn't give a lot of false negatives. False positives are less bad, because you can do a double check with a PCR test if you have a positive result. For example, in asymptomatic testing and particularly in the case of large numbers, a breath test could make a fantastic contribution. We are also working on this. The OMT shall present an additional opinion within two weeks. That's how we work on all kinds of tracks at the same time. The art is further building capacity and spreading risks. The more you spread risks, the better you can withstand setbacks. And yet the reality in the execution is incredibly unbearable, so we will have to switch over every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u337	Good to hear the cabinet has asked the OMT for advice on these quick tests. The test I mentioned myself has now been approved in the United States. It gives 98% accurate positive tests and 97% of negative tests are correct. Can the Minister give an estimate of what he thinks is an acceptable level of reliability of such a quick test? Is the Cabinet prepared to use such a test for, for example, access to cultural events, major sporting events and so on? Is the cabinet prepared to take the risk, at some point, that someone might slip through it, if it could give more freedom to society?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u338	I think we really should leave the reliability of the tests to RIVM, because there is much more to be said about this, for example about specificity, so the extent to which it actually says something about this virus alone. In it, PCR with head and shoulders stands out above the rest. Again, false positive is less bad. So if the specificity is lower, a false positive result is possible. False positive is less bad, especially if you have it at Schiphol Airport for example, where you would do a double check with a PCR if you had a positive result. In itself, this is a good method. Mr Jetten mentions cultural events and so on. In the film in which we are sitting, this is not for now or for next month, because we are currently in a very different issue. At the moment, the policy is that everyone should be able to be tested with complaints. We can see that demand for this policy is already transcending supply. This means that we see a very different need in the short term. In any case, we're doing everything we can to expand the offer. There is no doubt about that, of course. But we also do everything we can to reduce the question at the moment. That means we say to people, "Thank you for getting tested, but do this only if you have complaints." We also say to the GGD's: nice that you have all kinds of plans in the pipeline to extend the test streets and the opening hours of the test streets, but wait until we can handle it in the laboratories. This also means that we are not currently able to expand a number of research settings where we are currently trying asymptomatic tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u339	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u340	In addition, two types of questions have been asked. Who gets priority when there's scarcity? That's actually a question of prioritization. This question can be weighed in different ways: from the point of view of infectious disease control or from the point of view of social impact. We ask the OMT for prioritisation on grounds of infectious disease control. I hope to have an answer to that next week, because I fear that in the very short term we may already be in the situation where we say: given that demand is now greater than supply, we need to make this choice. We will do so as soon as possible, but then we have to make that choice. Another question is the question of teacher priority. That was your question, and that was Mr Asscher's question. I understand that question very well. There is not only the side of infectious diseases, but also the social effect. If a teacher has to go home, a class has to go home. That means something for parents who have to go back to work the next day. If supply could cope with demand, I would prefer to settle it in the current situation so that everyone can reach the standard of two times 24 hours. Knowing that this is not the case, you may indeed find yourself in a situation where you will have to take care of that priority. Whether to do so, given the current logistical task at the GGD's, I really need to discuss with the GGD's. So the question about prioritization I ask the OMT and the question about priority I discuss with the GGD. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u341	I thank the Minister for his commitment to return to the question of whether he can prioritize testing for certain professions. This example is about teachers, because it has a socially disruptive effect if they fail and can no longer teach all those children who need good education. With regard to the first point, I understand that he says that if we now find reliable rapid tests, he will initially use them to increase the test capacity. Because that is important right now for everyone in the Netherlands who is worried about the corona virus. But I would also ask him, at a later stage, not only to answer the question about the rapid tests from the RIVM perspective and the OMT perspective. If at some point you get to the point where you can use rapid tests more widely in society to allow more freedom, then there is also an ethical consideration, namely: do I accept the risk that such a rapid test is not as reliable as that PCR test? So that is not just an RIVM weighting, but in my opinion that is also a consideration that has a more ethical side and that we as a society have to make, namely: are we prepared to take a little more risk in the balance between freedom and security in order to make that freedom possible? I can imagine that because of the test capacity this is not something the Minister is answering within one or two weeks, but I think it is a relevant question if we want to use these rapid tests more widely in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u342	I'll share that. I also really think that you should consider different perspectives. It starts with infectious disease control. What's the most effective thing? Of course, if the scarcity increases in this way, there will be a need for prioritisation. There is also a number of steps conceivable when you have more space. What would you do first? But in the end, you also have to make a different type of assessment. The social and economic impact must also be taken into account. I wish the testing possibilities were unlimited, but we can see that it is simply not. Let us console ourselves with the idea that this is not only in the Netherlands. I speak a lot, especially my German colleague, and that is exactly where the same thing is playing at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u343	In this debate, the Minister is going through a number of issues that I think are important. I would like to respond to a question by Mr Jetten, but also to a second issue, to Mr Asscher's question on the Danish model. Those quick tests can definitely... It was precisely yesterday's press conference that mentioned what the lessons were learned: to leave society as free as possible and at the same time to bring down the R. This is crucial, even at a later stage, as the Minister also points out in reply to Mr Jetten. But then it is important that we get in on time and not let RIVM test it completely first if they are all the way to the end of the day to find out that other countries have already got in and have them, but we haven't yet. Is the Minister prepared, in advance, to see how we can ensure that we have these rapid tests when we need them and not only get to work on them when it is finally established? So that's the first half. We should be in on it right away. The second question follows on from Mr Asscher's question on Denmark. That's what we've been told about. We don't have the big labs, but we want to go there. The Danish approach also has elements on how to deal with quarantine. That is not a very acute question at the moment, given the low level of contagion. But before the summer, Mr Asscher and I have repeatedly raised the question of how to deal with people who are not ill after research into sources and contact, but who have to be quarantined and who are very difficult to deal with. The Danes also have an approach to this. Is that what the Cabinet is looking at?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u344	That's two questions. In response to the first, there is no delay. The RIVM is not a delaying factor. Wherever you can validate, RIVM will do so as soon as possible. An example from last week: we had a bite at that German laboratory in the negotiations. Tuesday we thought we had a bite, Wednesday RIVM got on the plane, Thursday we knew if it was valid and Friday we concluded the contract. So it's going at that rate. The same applies to quick tests. There is much more on the market and in that you can really do a huge miscarriage, so you have to look at that a little bit better, but also in that RIVM is not a delaying factor. And yes, you do have to step forward once in a while when you're not quite sure what the outcome will be. That has been the hallmark of my work for months. This also applies to the use of fast tests. And again, we are intensively talking about high-volume laboratories, because we think that there really is room for this in the Netherlands, perhaps with innovative test methods, perhaps in a more classic way. We do this with Eurofins, that company from Germany, of which we see a very large lab capacity in Germany that we would actually want in the Netherlands. Then the second question, the quarantine question. It was also discussed two weeks ago in the debate and a motion was tabled by Mr Asscher. We've got that in progress. It's about whether you could offer a quarantine package. That's a bit like Denmark. My view with Denmark is that Denmark also offers a little more help to municipalities if you do not manage yourself, in all kinds of possible ways; I will look into that further. There are lessons to be learned from several countries. That's what we're looking at, and that's what we're shaping. It takes some time, because this also requires contact with municipalities, but I hope to come back to that at the end of next week and otherwise a week later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u345	Mr Azarkan and then Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u346	In the many debates we have had here, the cabinet indicated that testing is one of the pillars to get the corona virus under control. In mid-May, the special envoy at Nieuwsuur told us that we, as the Netherlands, are moving from the most restrictive to the most generous test policy. The Minister writes on 4 June that he is pleased that we can test everyone with complaints from 1 June. Is that what the Secretary of State is saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u347	Well, that worked pretty well until two weeks ago. That's when demand started to rise. We also had some setbacks in the execution. At the moment it is very difficult to make that happen and we see the waiting times rising. That's why I'm saying we're going to expand capacity further. Of course, we were already working on this, but we have a number of new possibilities to seize. Fortunately, we have been able to conclude some contracts, but it takes some time for them to give us air. Two is that we need to cut back on the question, otherwise we won't be able to do it. "Get tested with complaints" has always been our policy. Given the sharp increase, our suspicion is also very strong that a lot of people are being tested who have no complaints. It is not a reproach, but it does make it a bit crowded in the test streets and also in the laboratories. Thirdly, we did indeed have to ask the OMT: what would the further priority be like if you were temporarily in a situation of scarcity which means you couldn't live up to it for a while? Fourthly, in the direction of Mr Jetten and in the direction of Mr Asscher, I would point out that priority: can the GGDs organise a kind of fast lane for teachers? There are quite a few drawbacks, but I would like to talk to the GGDs about that. In short, can we make it happen at the moment? Well, it's been a lot of hard work these weeks. That's not going to be easy right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u348	I'm getting the feeling... I wonder if this could be foreseen, in the sense that in March, April and May all the debates here have been so heavily hammered on that test. One million tests have been purchased, a special envoy has been appointed and promises are made to the Chamber at the beginning of June: anyone with complaints can be tested. It gives peace in society. People feel like if I have any complaints, I can come forward. If now the story is "we don't have the operation in order, we have a number of things assessed differently, it's disappointing," then there is unrest in society again. The question is whether each time a different policy communicates that people simply can't follow it between wanting to be tested and then "you're only next week or in two weeks' time." How is the Minister going to communicate that in such a way that there remains confidence and that we do not have to communicate something else here every time or invent something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u349	The brutality of the execution means that you have to switch over and over again. Once again, if I was very sure that we could have tested anyone who wanted to for months and years, and that we had those stocks in order for months, I could never have decided before 1 June that anyone could have been tested with complaints. It is now by definition a situation, a crisis in which you have to switch all the time and watch it all the time: this is what I really want, of which I am sure I can make it happen, it is likely that I can make this happen or this is really unlikely. That's how you have to make assessments of what's possible all the time. That does indeed mean that this crisis is not easy to manage at the moment. Of course, people expect that when you say "everyone with complaints gets tested," that months in a row is true. I understand that, too. I myself wish that the moment you say you're gonna do that, there's never gonna be any change in that. What is clear and what I really want to underline is that there is hard work at the GGDs. I would also like to stress that the laboratories are working very hard. But we simply see that the scarcity of the world market at the moment does not make it easy to adjust. That 30,000 should be the maximum bet based on the estimate of the number of people with complaints at the moment. That was the maximum estimate for the policy of getting everyone tested for complaints. All the extra capacity we wanted to put on top of that, there are incredibly many setbacks in that. This simply has to do with deliveries that cannot be increased. That has to do with operational losses in the materials. That's true, and we know it. Given that circumstance, I now have to ensure that this situation is as temporary as possible. In this temporary situation, we must share the scarcity as fairly as possible. Hence the actions I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u350	Good. Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u351	On 12 August a motion of 50PLUS was adopted that care personnel would be tested as a matter of priority. I just heard you promise to talk to the G.D.D.'s about the teaching staff. But can I assume that at least this minister has already done something for the care staff? Or should we expect again: I will come back to that? What has been done with this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u352	I also said in the debate that I really want, just from the point of view of disease control, that everyone within the target standard, the Hayke Veldman standard of twice 24 hours, can be tested. That was once a motion by Mr Veldman. That's what I'm talking about. That's also just being kept up-to-date by the G.D.D.'s. We were almost there. We were at an average of 52 comma so many hours instead of 48, so we were almost there. But now we see that the scarcity is extremely acute. That makes me weigh that motion differently. Because if you can keep up with everyone for twice 24 hours, that target standard, then it really is preferable to set up all kinds of fast lanes at the GGD. But where you don't meet that target, you need to talk again to see if you can do that for a number of professionals. I just mentioned the teachers, but that certainly applies to the care workers. They have a special position in that too. The point is that this could confuse the logistics of the GGDs so much that it is going to put pressure on the target standard anyway. If that's the case, then maybe you shouldn't. With the care staff, you can also see what more hospitals could do, rather than just with the GGDs. But give me the opportunity, I would ask Mrs Van Brenk, to discuss this in a good way, so that I do not commit to something here that I cannot deliver, bearing in mind what Mr Azarkan just said, because that does not help. So I'm talking about it. I also indicated this in the letter in response to the motion. I'm talking about it, but before I take that step, I really need to be able to make it happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u353	Mrs. Van Brenk. You don't have to. I can see you having second thoughts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u354	Mr President, I shall come back to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u355	Yeah, okay. I think we're...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u356	Then the waiting time for the test street in Naaldwijk. It was supposed to last until October. Fortunately, this is not the case either. It is longer than I would have liked, because of course you wish you could always go the next day, but on 4 September you can go there again, at 11.21 a.m., I understand. Why do we need German help again, Mr Azarkan asks. Well, "help," we're just signing a contract for a pretty astronomical amount, so it's not really help. You just contract and expand your possibilities along that path. That's what we do. By the way, it is really insightful to see that the same problem is taking place in Germany. Yes, the labs are insanely bigger than here, but the global shortage of materials makes itself felt there. This means, for example, that the policy on people travelling is to be reduced, because that is no longer what they are going to get. Why can't we test at Schiphol Airport in the evening, ask Mrs Van Brenk and DENK. There can of course be tested at Schiphol Airport, because we have set up a number of test settings for a number of cases of asymptomatic testing, namely the people who come forward as contact from the app, the people who come out of the source and contact research and the people who come in from an orange country as travellers, such as that setting at Schiphol Airport. I would have liked to expand it much faster, but if I had, it would have been at the expense of testing the people with complaints. And that is in fact always unwise from the point of view of the prevention of infectious disease. That's why I told all the GGD locations, including the location at Schiphol: "Hold your horses. With the current number of tests you have to do it in this research setting. We cannot expand now, because we know that this is at the expense of the people with complaints." In the case of those who cannot come to the test streets, can home care play no role, Mrs Van Brenk asks. And what do we do about it? We see that the GGDs are increasingly making agreements with third parties to test at home, to test closely. This applies to the first-line collection points, which are already being used by the general practitioners. However, in a number of regions, home care organisations are also used for home sampling. That is a very good development. That's exactly what the G.D.D.s want. With this, I think I've had the most important questions about testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u357	I may have missed it, but I think my question about the flu shot in relation to tests and complaints is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u358	It was in my other block. But I'm extremely flexible, so I can wiggle it out in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u359	And that can be very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u360	Look, at the flu shot, we also maximize the number of vaccines we have at the moment. Of course, we have a defined target group of people with vulnerable health and people aged 60 and over. That's the target group. It's pretty heavy, so we're not expanding the target group ourselves. Experience figures are that usually less than half of that group actually allows themselves to be vaccinated. We have assumed that this is what we actually want to see many more people in that group vaccinated. That is why the world market has managed, fortunately, to buy half a million extra vaccines. That means we now have 3.88 million flu vaccines. We hope that as much of the target group as possible will use it, not only because it will become less crowded in the test streets, but also because we know that a combination of different infections, i.e. flu and corona, can be an unfortunate circumstance for the spread of the virus. In short, this helps us in all cases. Fortunately, there are more flu vaccines available.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u361	So let me get this straight: there was therefore an opinion from the European Commission to ensure that the flu shot is used more widely or more massively, precisely for the very reason that the Minister calls it. Good to hear that the Netherlands has in any case bought extra flu shots to use for the target group that is written every year. But the European Commission also advised me to check whether there are other crucial professions that are not normally in that target group and for which it would be good to use the flu shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u362	I have to check that, but I believe that we in the Netherlands already have a fairly broad definition of the vulnerable group, which should therefore be eligible for a flu shot. That's how they looked at it. I will look into Mr Jetten's question for a moment to see whether it requires a more detailed consideration of the target group. For the time being, I believe that this group should remain the same and that this has been the very recital, but I shall come back to that. Mr. Chairman. I go on to the second block, with basically everything that touches on the lessons learned about the past period and on how you go further into the strategy. Of course, I had an exuberant introduction to it, but I will briefly summarize the lesson of all these tables. In connection with the motion tabled by Mr Asscher and Mrs Marijnissen, we have made this an exuberant process, I might add, with more than 100 experts in a wide range of subjects. If I were to sum up the common thread at all these tables, we should try to hit the virus even harder and reduce society and the economy. That's actually the most important lesson from that first wave. If you divide it a little bit more, those are all kinds of lessons that are about an even more precise, better insight into how the virus spreads. The second is to find a system that makes your actions even more focused than we already do. A third is partly because of this, but also because of a different type of communication, ensuring that we can last longer, because that is also important at this stage. We've had the outbreak phase. Then we had to let go of all those lockdown measures step by step and we had a roadmap in the transition phase. At that time, that control phase came sooner than we thought. Actually, we're gonna have to hold on to that until we get a vaccine. I'm gonna go into what that perspective is. Keeping up the control phase requires taking much more specific measures, getting closer to the skin of the virus, but also getting closer to the region, which means doing exactly what helps and all those things that actually doesn't help, because they lead to collateral damage to the economy and society that you shouldn't really want. We found that we could at least be much more precise in the dashboard. There have been very good lessons to learn from, which we have turned into the steps we are going to take on that dashboard in the coming time. In general, this means much more local information. You can see that already. If you log on to that dashboard now, you'll see a lot more municipal information, with even more indicators, which not only say something about the spread of the virus, but also about compliance in a certain region or municipality, in a different way. One of the important lessons, which also makes people understand why there is something different in one municipality than in another, is that you will have to make sure that the dashboard is a much more insightful instrument. Honestly, I was pretty proud that there are about 200,000 people on that dashboard every day. But that's what the experts said: no, look at the amount of people looking at shower radar. We really had to fight that. That is because it is far too policy-makers-oriented and far too little can really be used as a public instrument. That really means a different arrangement of the dashboard in a number of steps in the coming time. That's the lesson around that dashboard. Next, it should be linked that the predictability that we had at the roadmap stage is what steps do you take at what point if things go well? It also works in the region. If you exceed one or more signal values, you'll really get into a different phase. The basis is, of course, just a stage in which everyone has to be vigilant and in which you have to take a number of measures anyway. When one or more indicators are exceeded, you end up in another stage, where you actually see that there is such an increase, that you should call that worrying, and that the source and contact research, if you continue to do so, gives you less and less control over the spread of the virus. Then you really need to take some extra measures to make sure that the source and contact research remains effective. That is a bit the situation of Amsterdam a few weeks ago. Not anymore, but I did then. That's where we went through the 10 per 100,000. Rotterdam has had that, too. That really had to go back, because otherwise you will lose your grip through the source and contact research. That's that phase. You can go even further: that's stage three. The source and contact research is in fact no longer effective in this way, because the spread is just going too fast. We've developed that phase model right now. We have talked it through with the security regions and the GGDs, but we really need a few weeks to settle it properly. The first time we want to do that scaling-up in that model will be on September 22nd. That's what we're aiming for. For the next few weeks, we'd like to use it to settle things further. It's our translation of the lessons as they've been taught. It helps people to understand why in a particular region certain measures are logical at a certain point, given the state of spread of the virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u363	Mr Asscher, last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u364	First, a compliment. I see that the Minister is actually interested in the lessons to be learned and applies them. That's what you saw at the press conference yesterday. That is important for the coming months, because there are still very difficult things to come. I think it is very wise to explicitly define this containment strategy now, because that requires a regional approach. I've spoken before of a signal value of ten ICU shots a day. Then you look in the rearview mirror at a chain collision. That's way too late; you can't do anything with that. I want to give the Minister a challenge, learning from other countries. How can you translate this, not only for people who check shower radar for the virus, but also for schools and institutions where vulnerable people live? Make it so with a lower number of infections and make it practical for everyone who is confronted with infections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u365	That's right. Yesterday you saw an example of this with regard to nursing care. We are talking to the nursing home sector, for example, in connection with the visitor scheme. What are you doing at a certain environmental prevalence, at a certain level of contagion in a region? What does the visitor scheme look like? If the virus is already in the house, then of course you can do a number of things. I'll mention the cohort care and the customized visitor scheme. All nursing homes and ourselves have learned the lesson that you should never do such a generic lockdown again. At a certain level of contamination you can of course see if you need to raise the dam something by using protective equipment or otherwise. You have to continue with each other at what level of infection you are going to take what measures. This applies to nursing homes, but also to schools, for example. So of course Slob and Van Engelshoven are also having that conversation with the sector. That's what I'm talking about when I say we're gonna have to settle that in the next few weeks. I do not know if all of this was planned on 22 September, but by sector you have to look at what a certain stage-setting means for the set of measures that you need to be ready for at that time. I don't want to go to automatism. So I don't want to go to: if there are more than seven infections per 100,000 inhabitants, then you always have to do this or that in the schools. I think that's an automatism that's not appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u366	Good. Then I'm going to see Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u367	To be continued.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u368	I also respect the Minister who, in my opinion, has been sitting here for 14 hours or on the tip of his seat or behind the cathedral. That's special.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u369	But I'm so happy to tell you about it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u370	Sure. That's what you should do. Let's talk about the lessons learned. It's nice that we can look back. What is still important for my group is not only to do so in the rear-view mirror, because you need not only to look back, but also to look forward. You must continue to base your policy on broad advice. I see that the Minister is browsing his papers to find an answer that he had prepared. We should not just look at the OMT, because we really have to weigh the values and interests in the breadth. We had already mentioned this: let us also give you broad advice. Then came the planning agencies, the ESC and the security regions, but after that it became quiet again. In this respect, therefore, I would also like to express my encouragement: let all these broad noises and all these values and all these interests be left, for example, young people who say, 'What about us?' It is also important that the Commission should take account of all the economic damage and social damage involved. Get more advice than just the OMT.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u371	We will. I would just like to say to Mr Segers that, in my view, the way in which we are setting this up now is actually exactly what he has repeatedly introduced here, namely that we need to look at a broader balancing framework. That is actually one of the lessons of those expert tables. You have to be sure and do exactly what helps to keep that virus underneath, but so that it has as little impact on society and the economy as possible. You do that by allowing space to be as large as possible. That is actually the same as what the CPB and the SCP have said to us. They have thought with us about what this balancing framework should look like. Well, it's a bit thicker, but in short, it comes down to this: hitting the virus as hard as possible and hiting society and the economy as little as possible. That is basically what it is all about, and that has to be the consideration over and over again. If you see that the rate of infection is increasing and you have a kind of general set of measures for a certain phase, then there is a risk that you will be triumphantly extinguishing next to the fire. So you have to do a lot more surgical work. You need to do the analysis right. What's really going on? Then where exactly are these infections? That is an analysis the GGD does and of course the RIVM can help. Then you have to see what an appropriate measure might be to put the virus in the head where it apparently raises its head. You have to do exactly what helps and nothing more than that. Not less but no more than that, because it often has too much impact on society and the economy. And so you try to be as proportional as possible. In doing so, we use the balancing framework that the CPB and the SCP have advised us about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u372	I'm thinking, finally. From my humble experience in this place, I know you can't satisfy everyone, because if you make a choice, you also disappoint a lot of people. But you can take people into consideration. You can grow understanding by saying: this was the dilemma, these are the values, I have heard all this and on the basis of this conviction I choose this now. The more insightful you make that, the more public and the more openly you make that choice, the more solid is the support for the policies you ultimately choose. You can see that it is fragile and vulnerable and that there is criticism of certain measures. Hence this cry of hearts. I hear it's at the right place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u373	Happy birthday, no matter how hard that is, huh? A lot has been said at those expert tables about communication. I think everyone's right who says there was some room for improvement here and there. I believe that's true. I don't know if I'm gonna step on anyone's toes right now. I didn't mean to! But a moment of self-reflection: there was sometimes room for improvement. Of course it is, but at the same time: try to reach all those groups with all the considerations you are dealing with. Maybe we should tell you more often what dilemmas we're in. We were just talking about the test capacity. Sometimes you wish you had more and that you could send everyone, hupsakee, through that test street, but sometimes reality is just a little bit more uncomfortable. Then you have to make a trade-off that is also logical and followable. We may have to communicate these dilemmas out loud a little more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u374	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u375	There is, of course, a tension field, Mr Heerma said that also between a regional approach and clear communication. "One size fits all" communicates well, but does not do justice to reality. Yeah, that tension field is there. At the same time, this tension is also present in the case of national measures, when there are actually major differences. Saying that there are no more supporters allowed to go to a stadium because there is a problem in Rotterdam, for example, is not explainable in the rest of the country. You always have to take that into account when taking measures at national level. Take, for example, the maximum of six visitors. We've talked about that for a long time. You'd say that wasn't such a difficult measure. It was just advice and stuff. However, we have talked about this for a very long time. It was, you might say, corrective on the virus where the virus was already getting its head on, and it was actually preventive for the rest of the country, so it wouldn't happen there either. This really is one of those measures that you cannot take regionally. At the same time, you can take measures regarding the catering industry or measures regarding the size of visitors on occasions at regional level. In fact, they are much more explainable at regional level than at national level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u376	I meant my question precisely in relation to the question that Mr Segers just asked. This also affects the start of the debate and the questions that Mr Klaver asked about people who tend to be critical and have doubts. I am in favour of regionalising the policy, because it allows you to give more freedom. But precisely the dilemma logic, explaining that, is essential, because otherwise people are inclined to think: I don't understand it anymore, so I get more critical. This regionalisation therefore requires even more dilemma logic and even more communication. Otherwise, people lose confidence in policies that are actually better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u377	Yeah, totally. Also communicate through multiple channels. A press conference is a way, but it's not gonna help you get that into the region. Therefore, you will need to do much more on target communication. That is one of the important lessons from the course we have gone through.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u378	At the very beginning of the corona crisis we adopted motions and had discussions about a daily coronajournaal. That didn't turn out to be him. But even then exactly this logic played a role in wanting such communication. Can the Cabinet indicate at what time and how it will be informed what this plan will look like about the more targeted target audience communication? That is precisely what I am asking because it is essential, and it has actually been since the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u379	Sure. Where I want to go again is to a certain rhythm in the progress letters. The fact that there was a certain predictability before the summer when the Chamber was again informed about the progress was pleasant. I think that the next letter is coming in mid-September, and in that progress letter I try to set out what the state of affairs is. Then the question of perspective. I think that was a question from Mr Van der Staaij and a question from Mr Segers. How do you give perspective again? Mr Jetten asked: is there another road map to be made? The roadmap we had, from the lockdown situation to this control phase, was a roadmap in which we could scale down a measure over and over again. It was actually much easier to put something of predictability into it, one might say, albeit at that time too, to consider whether it was feasible in the context of that moment. Now there's a control phase that you have to hold on to for quite a long time, at least to my best expectation, the vaccination phase. I call that a deliberate vaccination phase. Too often it is thought that it is a moment when the vaccine is there and so everything is left. But I think it will still be a phase, where we will have different types of vaccines for different target groups delivered in different tranches. At that moment too you really have to go through a phase until you are actually protected. Am I sure that vaccine is gonna work anyway, and do I know when it's gonna happen? No, of course that's surrounded by a lot of uncertainties. Are there any hopeful messages right now? Yes, there are indeed very hopeful messages. If I take into account the projections made by the suppliers of the candidate vaccines with whom we now have agreements, there are five of them, I can say that I expect that to be in the first quarter of 2021. Then there will be a number of others in the second quarter and some in the third quarter of 2021. I hope to come out with a number of candidate vaccines, so that we have contracted the most promising ones anyway. Then all these phases still have to be completed. Then it must still be shown from all those stages in which the development of such a vaccine goes, that it is actually effective and for which group, and whether it does not have undesirable side effects. The EEA has, of course, yet to be approved. So we will not skip all those safety posts but just keep them in, only execute them in a very short period of time. I hope to be able to say more about what this vaccination strategy is going to be like in the autumn. The Health Council is currently giving an opinion on this at our request. In doing so, we can prepare ourselves well for the vaccination strategy that we hope to have in the first half of 2021. Whatever else we do, I also said to Mr Wilders last time: we are fully committed to everything related to innovative treatment. Because even if that vaccine isn't there yet and it lasts longer, let it wait longer, then you must have done everything possible to remove the worst damage from that virus with the help of innovative treatment. Today, a very nice study has been launched to further stimulate it with the BCG vaccine. We've been working on that for a long time. It's actually a vaccine against TB, but we can see that it gives a boost to the immune system, which may possibly cause it, even in the elderly, that you're a little better protected from the virus. It would be great if that worked. We would have let that start earlier, but then the number of infections was too low to do that research in a good way. In the meantime it is a little higher, so we can start that research again. I think 22 hospitals are involved and a lot of older people. That's good. What if it works? Even if that vaccine is still a little longer, the damage is already less for vulnerable elderly people. That's how we try to grab anything that helps. That's the perspective we can outline right now. We're gonna have to control the virus. We do that as best we can, until the moment there is that you have mitigated the really harmful effects by treatment or that you are really off and really protected because the vaccine is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u380	Mr Jetten, last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u381	In my view, the Minister has explained that we are far from being at that vaccination stage and that it may take quite a long time. That is why I think it is wise for the cabinet in the letter we received yesterday to choose to go to those three levels of scaling, which you can use in time: vigilant, worrying and serious. My question whether you can develop a new road map is about the following passage in the letter: "Defining a level of scaling for a particular region and what measures are then taken is not automaticism but a common weighting." I am a little afraid that at some point, on the basis of the dashboard, we will find that a certain region needs to go to a higher level of scaling, that the Minister will have to start thinking with the security regions and all kinds of other bodies about what measures we are going to take at that time and that we will have to spend a lot of time on it and therefore cannot respond quickly enough to recent developments. So my question is whether we can actually create a roadmap where you are already very predictable on the front of which set of measures belongs to a certain level of scaling, as we see with other countries. I have here the example of California. There are not three but four levels of scaling. By scaling-up level, each sector indicates what it means, for example, for the catering industry, church services and you name it all. That predictability gives a bit of perspective and certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u382	Two things about that. One. Yes, it must be as predictable as possible and, above all, as follow-up as possible. If there is a difference in the set of measures, that difference should also be explainable based on the analysis of the level of infection as you did. The dashboard should make it as clear as possible what the analysis is. Then you need to be able to find out what the set of measures is being taken in such a region. That's one way. On the other hand, we are, of course, saying that this is the lesson: take precisely those measures that hit the virus hard, but do not take exactly those measures that affect the economy and society in particular. Suppose you turn it into some sort of automatism, where at a certain level of contagion, for example, the schools, I'll just mention a side street; we're not going to do that, we should go back to home education. Then you've applied an automatism that is predictable, but probably so unfocused that its damage is too great. I'd rather do it in such a way that you make it as predictable as possible and have it on the shelf in advance just in case. I know that Slob, for example, is in conversation with the schools and is looking at what you could do at a certain level of infection. I do that with nursing care. That's how we all work it out with our own sectors. But we shouldn't make it an automatism. We shouldn't do that. I understand the desire for predictability, but I'm really afraid of an automatism, because it's always getting too coarse. So I'll work it out. We need to be sober about it that it's never gonna be complete. We will refine it more and more and I will keep you informed of it time and time again. Then I have a number of other questions and then I'm really through, Mr President. I see you yearning for the end. Could the task force ventilation also work in nursing homes? I've just checked that out. In any case ventilation, especially those recirculation ventilation systems, is also of great importance in nursing homes; we have seen this in De Tweemaster's research. At present, Actiz lists among the members whether there is a use of systems where recirculation is used in one room. That question among the members is still pending. The members of Actiz are also investigating all ventilation systems and taking measures. It has also been tested by Actiz whether we could be helpful with a task force. That was really not the case at the moment. I think I have just answered the question about schools in the direction of Mr Asscher. Then there is Mrs Ouwehand's question as to why the mink sector is being compensated for 150 million. The OMT-Z now advises the cabinet as follows. At the end of the season you should just get rid of it, so make a compulsory buy-out scheme for the mink sector. That means you say to the mink sector: you thought you could get through to 2024, but you have to stop sooner. We did that on the basis of the advice, because you don't want a reservoir to be created there and you could get contamination again through the mink farms. This is all very legitimate for health reasons, but the moment you say that someone is no longer allowed to exercise their business, while that business is still legal, it makes sense that it costs money. The estimate is that this could be the amount involved. This arrangement is being further developed at the moment. The Minister of LNV will inform you as soon as possible. Then there is a question from Mrs Ouwehand about livestock farming. What is being portrayed as regards the relationship between intensive livestock farming and health damage? That's something that's been investigated before. There's research going on right now. This research is carried out by a consortium of RIVM, Utrecht University and the University of Wageningen. It's about pneumonia in goats near regions where there's a lot of goat herders. It's a study of air quality, livestock farming and covid. RIVM has made a proposal for this. However, it is a very complex proposal. We'll talk about it later. But we have to do this research into the coherence of air quality, livestock farming and covid. In addition, there is an investigation into at least the correlation between covid and Q fever. We actually see in those Q-fever regions that people have also been seriously affected by covid. It seems more serious than anywhere else, but before you draw any conclusions about it, you have to be sure. That's what RIVM's gonna be investigating. In short, we do not run away from that link, but you must know that link before you know what measures you have to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u383	I've been given a lot of births to see if I'd like to sit down, but I only have two questions, so we'll be right through. It is indeed about air quality when it comes to the health that we have to offer people. I find it a little strange that the cabinet is acting on all kinds of other fronts from the precautionary principle to get the virus under control and to ensure that the ic's do not flood, and here we have to know for sure first. People can count on clean air, because then they are less susceptible to serious complications, combined with the call of scientists who say that a healthy lifestyle also helps. My question is what the cabinet is waiting for. This minister is very busy, but he also has a secretary of state who would like to work on prevention. In that case, the cabinet cannot be serious about sending us a vague outline of future policy in the autumn, when it is now necessary to help people to get healthier so that they have better resistance to that covid virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u384	You put a lot of things together. Blokhuis is simply implementing the prevention agreement. Blokhuis says you need prevention much more at the heart of our healthcare system. I wholeheartedly agree with him. If you are currently investing in prevention as a municipality, you are actually setting fire to the neighbors, because the revenu of those prevention investments countries to another. The same applies to an individual health insurance provider. In the Wlz it is even forbidden to invest in prevention, because illegal, because beyond the scope of the legal limits. In short, we will have to build a health system that makes much more prevention at the heart of the system. A third of the spending we are currently doing on our care is related to lifestyle-related diseases. So we have real work to do. Blokhuis says that this may require adjustments to the system and wants to draw up a sketch for this. This is without prejudice to the fact that he is currently doing everything possible under the prevention agreement. That's a lot of activity. What is also happening in these regions is that you need to see if air quality could have harmful effects there. Air quality is one of the things people can't help individually. They can do something about lifestyle, not air quality. Therefore, as a government, you will have to take appropriate measures, but you will have to do exactly that because you are trying to weigh different interests. There are also companies that have been there for a long time and you cannot simply say: you must leave, because we think that you have a negative effect on air quality and that has a negative effect on public health. It can't work that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u385	The prevention agreement we got back from the cabinet is a list of existing initiatives that we already know are insufficient. I come with a motion and hope that the cabinet will embrace it and get to work faster. My second question is about mink. Of course, we are going to have a broader debate, but the whole of the Netherlands says: yes, come on. The taxpayer has to pay 150 million on top of the compensation for the slaughter and then there is the scrapping scheme. It is 222 million for 128 mink farmers. Nightclubs also go bankrupt and gym holders have also had a very difficult time. As far as the catering industry is concerned, the cabinet has said that it is your property and that you may have invested in a space for 100 people one night, but it has to be 40% off because you have to keep 1.5 meters away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u386	What is your question, Mrs Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u387	Why does the cabinet choose to create a limited set of support measures for all those entrepreneurs and to allocate 222 million to the mink farmers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u388	I don't think the equation's going to work. I do not think that a 'limited set of aid measures' is entirely adequate for all aid measures as they have been taken. I do not think the comparison is valid, because the choice made by the cabinet, based on the advice of the OMT-Z, is that we say to mink farms: you have to stop. We don't say "you have to stop" to anyone else. It doesn't matter whether or not you think this is a desirable sector in the Netherlands. There are all kinds of views about that, and I understand them all. I also understand the more emotional side of that. But this is about people with a company, to whom you say: you have to stop. When, as a government, you tell an entrepreneur to stop, that's not just an entrepreneurial risk anymore. Then there is also an adequate remuneration. If you don't take care of it yourself, it will be granted by the judge. In short, you better make an adequate arrangement for it. And that's what we do. We are not going to spend more money than is strictly necessary, but you cannot just leave people in the cold. It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u389	Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u390	I have not had an answer to two questions. I'd still like to. The first was what this minister is going to do for the carers. The other was about our adopted motion on the sewers at nursing homes instead of that ride. Saves a lot of fuss for all these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u391	First, about the carers. We have, of course, been talking to carers in recent times to see how we can help them as best we can. We have made it possible, for example, to obtain a small set of personal protective equipment as a reserve at the time they were deemed necessary. From carers we are given insights about whether they can also count on sufficient support. That is what we have been working on, and we will continue to do so. There's no such thing as a caretaker. There is a wide range of questions that come to us from carers. That's what we're gonna do, and we're gonna keep doing it. That's not ready. Two: the sewer system. I wasn't that excited at first, because I didn't think we could make it happen, but we're finally doing exactly what you ordered with the motion. We are currently draining sewage at all water treatment plants. I don't do that personally, but that's what we're taping. The result comes in the dashboard, which I had indicated became much more local. He'll come back in another way, too. In the OMT opinion of the end of last week and therefore also in the decision of yesterday's cabinet, you might have to selectively test preventively in high-contagion regions in nursing homes, i.e. on part of the pre-emptive testing group. But that's gonna cost a lot of testing capacity again. That's where your proposal actually came back: couldn't you use the sewer water surveillance as an alternative to that to see if there's any virus in that house, if that house is connected to a particular drain? You haven't figured that out yet because it's asymptomatic, but you want to fight that. We'll work with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u392	Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u393	I have asked a question which I do not think has yet been answered. It was about the source and contact research, which is the foundation of our corona approach. Yesterday, a statement from the GGD's, which indicated that they had been ordered to scale from VWS on June 28, 2020, was published completely against everything we discussed here and against the promises made here, from 850 full-time people to 550 full-time people. So instead of expanding and scaling up, the order is given to scale down. My question to the Minister was: is it true that on 28 June VWS gave that order to the GGDs? Could we, as a Chamber, receive this service agreement, as I believe it is called?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u394	It's not a secret or anything. You're getting very deep into the performance. But no, that's not true. That's not what happened. I explained what happened last time. We then converted the GGD's upholstery plan into a service contract. That, I believe, was indeed at the end of June. You know that part of the capacity to be scaled up would be assigned regionally and that part of it would be housed in a rural pool, a rural shell. This was at the stage in which the number of infections was very low and it was not enough to train employees quickly, because for that the casuism was lacking. That was one. Two: if you had trained them then they had no work, because the scaled up national pool didn't have to be used anywhere because the number of infections was very low. At that time, the service agreement stipulated that the 2,000 FTE should still be provided nationally, but first do the 550 FTE as a fixed basic capacity and ensure that the rest is flexible scalable. This is how the service agreement became. So no scale-down, certainly not; it just had to be about the 2,000, but initially starting with 550. You relate this to the issue of Amsterdam or Rotterdam, but, perhaps aboundingly, the problem was not that that national capacity was not there at the time. The problem there was the degree of speed with which it could be reduced in Rotterdam and Amsterdam. There we have made an adjustment of the plan, an acceleration of it, including with training. In September, moreover, a new review will follow, on the basis of the principles of that moment, because we see that reality is changing a bit over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u395	Mrs Marijnissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u396	I understand that we are not going to discuss that further in the middle of the night, but I think it is a really bad story that people were apparently sent home because there would be no work, when everyone could think that there was a lot of work coming. Another question from me has not been answered by the Minister either. It was about protective equipment in the nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u397	That's what Mrs. Van Ark does.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u398	That question is going to answer Mrs. Van Ark? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u399	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u400	Thank you, Mr President. I have had a number of questions from the Chamber about the labour market, about personal protective equipment and some other questions. On the labour market, questions have been raised that have also been raised in the debate on the valuation of care workers. That was the debate on 19 August. In it, the cabinet, through the Prime Minister, indicated that it would come forward around Princess Day with a letter about the appreciation of the care workers. In that letter we will inform the Chamber of the measures which the Cabinet intends to take. That is what I can say about it at the moment. Mrs Van Brenn has asked whether retired doctors with a BIG registration are being deployed by the GGD or approached by them to help. In order to ensure the responsible use of as many care workers as possible, two measures were taken immediately at the outbreak of the pandemic, namely that the re-registration obligation was suspended immediately until further notice and that doctors and nurses whose BIG registration expired for a maximum of two years were allowed to work. This means that they could report through "Extra hands for care" that they were available to be used. This has happened in many places, so it deserves a great deal of thanks, both to employers and to employees. Through the GGD GHOR we understand that in some regions already retired IZB doctors are used with a BIG registration, for example in the Utrecht and Hollands-Midden region. There is also a consultation with several domes, but as Sjaak de Gouw keeps saying I would like to repeat that call if you are a retired IZB doctor, please report to the GGD GHOR. Thank you to Mrs Van Brenk. Then I come to the questions that have been asked about personal protective equipment, in particular about its preventive use. Perhaps very briefly in a few sentences, Mr. Chairman. In March RIVM set out the principles for the appropriate use of personal protective equipment outside the hospital: when and when not to use? It has also indicated that care professionals may deviate on a reasoned basis. Several hand-outs have also been formulated for professional groups. Recently, RIVM has done an updated hand delivery to the GGD doctors. It states that the use of mouth masks could be preventive in nursing homes if there are many clusters of infections in the region. The last OMT opinion also confirms that. We are currently looking at exactly how we do this and how we graft this onto the escalation ladder, so that we also know that we have the right measure of the measures. I know that Mrs Marijnissen, as well as others, have frequently called for attention to be paid to this. In response to the debates and what has been said about them by experts and certainly by those involved in the field, we have also asked the OMT for additional advice on the added value of more use for specific target groups, for people with vulnerable health. In addition, you will of course look at what this means for supply and demand. I also had an exchange of views with Mrs Marijnissen in an earlier debate. The LCH says: if you follow the RIVM directive, we can handle a peak load for several weeks. But if we are going to change that directive, because there is more preventive use by healthcare professionals or by people with vulnerable health, then of course this also means something for the stock available. We have therefore asked the LCH to identify for us what this means, because the advice obtained makes the desirability beyond doubt. We asked the OMT to investigate the desirability of people with vulnerable health. Next, we need to see whether it is feasible to keep the stock well up to date. Of course, I will inform the Chamber if any result is known.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u401	I think that's a weird thing to do. The new OMT opinion says: we are happy, at last, to see the added value of using preventive protective means for our caregivers. It is, of course, very strange to say that it works in the nursing home, but, for example, it does not work in the care of the disabled. If you're doing this in place a, it makes perfect sense for you to do this in place b. I hear the Minister say that we are going to ask if all this logistics can be solved. I think this is the wrong order. You'd expect it the other way around, wouldn't you? There is now a renewed OMT opinion which says that it is desirable that protective materials should also be used preventively. I would think: then we should just settle it, because it is simply best for the health of our caregivers and for keeping the virus in check?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u402	Mrs Marijnissen's question, as I have understood it, is what it means for the stock if we want it. We have also supported this with the opinions. I can remember from the previous debate that we both thought the same thing about this, but we also like to have those opinions. It was a very fair question in the previous debate. So we have asked the LCH to map out for us what the more preventive use means for the stock, so that we can replenish the stock. We asked the OMT how we deal with people with vulnerable health. That is also a question that lives wide in the Chamber. D66 and the Christian Union have asked for it, but other groups have also asked for it in other debates. This question is off at the OMT. If anything comes back, we'll ask the LCH again what this means to raise a good stock, because of course we have to do that. I think this action is running. The LCH indicates that with the current stock it can handle a peak load, as in March, of a few weeks. Of course, we want to keep that up, especially if there is more preventive coverage. So we are looking forward to how we can keep this up. Mrs Marijnissen also asked the following question: this is happening in nursing homes, but what about other sectors? This question was also raised by Mr Jetten and Mr Segers. This is exactly what I'm saying to them. It is true that in nursing homes there are people with very vulnerable health. From a distance this makes a nursing home different from other care areas, but I agree with them that there are certainly parts of the care, for example in disability care, in the GGZ and in home care, where there is a similar constellation. This means that I am also currently consulting with many parties, including experts, on how we can apply this to other forms of care. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Marijnissen also had a question about the own production of Dutch protective equipment. Can we be self-sufficient during a second peak? There are many initiatives currently under way. We have already discussed this in previous debates, and I also have Mrs van den Berg's motion on which I would like to return. For the sake of clarity, I would like to point out that we have taken a number of initiatives which lead to a considerably lower dependence on the Netherlands, if the production is on steam. But the world market for protective equipment is erratic. So we can't say in advance what share we can steer, but it's a lot more than it is now. Mr. Chairman. I have two other questions I received. Mrs. Van Brenk suggested the idea of a disaster hospital per region. We have, of course, examined with the Regional Transfer Acute Care Chain how we are going to shape this. It was precisely from the field that the call came to spread this regionally: if there is to be scaled up, let there be the possibility at every hospital to work with corona. So for that first scale, we chose that model, precisely because it came from the field and was widely endorsed. For a possible further scaling up of the flexible peel, I'll just say that it's more centered again. But for that first scaling, it's just coming out of the field. By the way, we will soon be expecting the reactions of the various hospitals on the current state of affairs. Mr Klaver asked about the sufficient presence of medicines and ventilation equipment. I can tell him that there is enough full-fledged ICU breathing equipment at the moment. We also have an overview of the stocks of protective equipment on the LCH website. There is currently no need to purchase additional ventilation equipment. But I have also heard Mr Klaver's question as to whether it is possible to have a conversation with Philips to do something about the ventilation equipment that is there. I would like to agree on this point with my Foreign Minister, because it is always good to talk to each other and see what could possibly be arranged with other countries. Mr President, I think I have answered the questions with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u403	Thank you. In doing so, we have reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u404	Mr. Chairman. Conclusions of this debate: the minister's authority has been undermined by the fact that this cabinet is harsh against society and soft.... or "mild and merciful" in the words of the Prime Minister... for himself. That's what stings the big group of people who are trying awfully hard. That stabs people who have offered sacrifices to their parents at emotional moments, marriages, funerals and visits, thereby putting them into society when it comes to the policy against corona. Mr. Chairman. Here, too, the suggestion seemed to arise that cow trafficking could arise in the form of a change of policy in exchange for aid. That doesn't make the image any better as far as we're concerned. That is why I shall table the next motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u405	Mr. Baudet? No, I didn't. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u406	I figured that's a special moment for an interruption. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[rejects the action of the Minister for Justice and Security;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is crucial that people working in education, care and the police can be quickly tested and have a quick result, and that this is far from always the case;]] [[believes that the negative social impact of several days cannot be prevented by people in vital professions;]] [[calls on the government to give priority to teachers, care workers, police officers and other vital professionals in the testing of the coronavirus,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is of the utmost importance for public health and the economy to detect and control the virus;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet itself now also notes that extensive testing and tracing, as has been practiced in Denmark since April, among others;]] [[calls on the Government to have introduced testing and tracing policies in accordance with Danish model by 1 October at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Klaver, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Wilders, Mr Azarkan, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Van Brenn, Mr Krol, Mr Baudet and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-512]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-513]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-514]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u407	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that a health care provider bonus does not meet the broad shared desire of caregivers and the population for structurally increased appreciation for caregivers;]] [[calls on the government, in addition to the already promised bonus for healthcare professionals in 2020 for next year, to make proposals for structural wage improvement and to make these proposals known on Princess Day, in addition to improving working conditions to maintain and recruit care professionals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that so far controversial sanctions have been imposed on people who were too close to each other at a time of inattention, after which they could count on substantial fines and criminal record;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Public Prosecutor, to examine the possibility of dropping the judicial documentation note on fines imposed in this type of case and to ensure that in future only the gross and dangerous offences (such as the organisation of corona parties) can lead to a record of the judicial documentation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-515]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-516]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u408	I would like to point out that there have been various solutions in this debate, including the reduction of the fine to an amount below €100. That would appeal to us very much, because you would automatically be rid of that criminal record. But other routes are also open as far as we are concerned. In that light, this motion may be considered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u409	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u410	Thank you, Mr President. I believe that the Minister's credibility is really gone. I find it hard to explain that he, as chief of enforcement, is getting away with sorry and a voluntary donation as ordinary people through his policy of disproportionate corona punishment. An opposition-wide motion of censure has been tabled. That is a stronger signal than if I were to vote for a motion of censure on my own. The Minister may also draw his conclusions on a motion of censure and may regard it as a motion of censure. The Minister can certainly take my signature of this motion as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u411	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u412	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mildness and mercy, that's what the Prime Minister asked for. He saw that these core values actually came back very much in this debate. Mildness and mercy is what I asked with a number of colleagues on 20 May for the group of people affected by the fines and, in particular, the judicial notice. For that reason, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that tens of thousands of fines have been imposed under the corona measures;]] [[Whereas this has made it unnecessary for tens of thousands of people to be criminalised and have received a record on their criminal record;]] [[Whereas this is disproportionate, especially now that the Minister of Justice himself has not complied with the one and a half meter rule;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the corona-related judicial notes are removed from the judicial documentation, with retroactive effect until 16 March 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-517]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u413	Finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the approach to coronavirus pays great attention to mouth masks, the one-and-a-half meter rule and hand hygiene;]] [[Whereas scientific research has shown that good ventilation is at least as important a factor in combating the risks of infection;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how good ventilation can play a greater role in the corona strategy to be followed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-518]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u414	It remains for me to thank the cabinet members for their reply. I realise that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice and Security have chosen to continue, despite the loss of confidence and the need to recover it. I think that's risky. We will see how that develops in the coming months, at least until the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u415	Thank you. Could you pass those motions here, please? I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA. Would you like to go home quickly, Mrs. Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u416	No! No, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u417	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a two-faced debate. I think everyone's experienced that, too. In the first half of the debate, the longest half, almost as long as my introduction to the General Political Reviews last year, I say to Mr Asscher... I'm gonna try to do it shorter this year. But in the first half of the debate, and it is right that there was a great deal of attention to this, Mr Grapperhaus's marriage and the need to explain and answer for it. As far as I'm concerned, that's what happened here, with the understandable emotion of the groom. But the second half of the debate, which was a lot shorter, is very important when you see it in the light of corona. I think it has been short, but it has come across a lot of subjects, some of which will come back in letters next week or in the following week and which we will have to talk about seriously. This is about scaling up the test capacity, but also about Minister De Jonge's commitment to how to deal with quarantine. That was an earlier motion by Mr Asscher. It's about innovative testing and how to communicate in that new phase. All those subjects that come from the lessons are at least as important as the first half, which we have spent a lot of time on. We will have to discuss this with each other in the coming debates, which will also determine how we will get through this autumn if the virus turns up the way we would not want it to. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u418	Thank you. Mrs Ouwehand has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u419	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister of Justice actually asked if he could start with a clean slate. The Party for the Animals will give it to him. However, we have co-signed Mr Asscher's motion because it is very serious how the matter has been dealt with. We also believe that good citizens should be given a clean slate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that since the outbreak of the coronavirus, fines of hundreds of euros have been distributed to well-intentioned citizens and entrepreneurs who have not been able to comply fully with the corona measures;]] [[calls on the Government to waive these fines for breach of the corona rules,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas good basic health can make a huge contribution to reducing the impact of the coronavirus on society;]] [[calls on the government now to work on prevention as an integral part of the corona policy and to present as soon as possible a roadmap addressing the unhealthy living and food environment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-519]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-520]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u420	Finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, by means of the Old-Hand/Ploumen motion (28286 No. 1108) called on the Government to prohibit the professional breeding of animals which are susceptible to coronavirus and which can form a reservoir, thereby providing compensation along the same lines as for other sectors affected by corona measures;]] [[noting that the cabinet does prohibit mink-breeding in line with that motion, but intends to pay a total of 222 million to 128 mink-farmers;]] [[Whereas this is in no way proportionate to the much more limited aid measures which other affected sectors are required to take into account;]] [[points out that the level of the proposed remuneration for mink breeding is unacceptable and that its level should be substantially reduced,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand, Mr Asscher and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-521]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u421	Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the rulers for their reply. Minister Grapperhaus has put on the penitentiary, first written and also orally tonight. He acknowledges what has gone wrong and has given text and explanation. We share his honest diagnosis, namely that his authority has been dented by this issue. The SGP Group wants to give this minister, who has made a valued and important contribution to the fight against the crisis over the past period, the opportunity to do what he is motivated to do and to get to work to restore the broken trust. That is why we have not signed the motion of censure. Mr. Chairman. The kindness that we want to show here is also encouraging, as I said in the first term, with what we want to see in practice in relation to all citizens who go wrong with the one-and-a-half meter rule, namely to give way to a warning in similar situations where people do not intend to act like this, but it went wrong for a moment. Then we also expect a warning to follow and not to add the coupon book. This is also in line with the practice of the past period, as I understood, in which very few fines have yet to be imposed. Finally, Mr President. I myself have a motion signed by Mr Klaver, who is going one step further, looking forward and saying: should you not examine, in addition to the reluctant policy of fines, whether you can ultimately reduce the role of criminal law further? The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas recent behavioural studies by RIVM and GGD GHOR show that it is particularly important for compliance with the corona rules to be clearly communicated as to why the code of conduct helps to prevent contamination of itself and others;]] [[Whereas, in order to maintain acceptance of the code of conduct at this stage of the crisis, it may be a sensible choice to reduce the role of criminal law in rules such as the distance standard, and to proceed as far as possible to reasoned opinions and directives;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt a cautious penalty policy with regard to the one-and-a-half-meter measure, and to examine the extent to which the role of criminal law can be further reduced in favour of urgent opinions and directives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-522]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u422	Mr. Chairman. I had the intention to file the next motion. "Whereas the fact that the Minister of JenV himself violated corona rules at his wedding; declares that community service for the Minister of JenV is appropriate to the boas, so that he feels the consequences for the boas of his own offense." But since this minister recently got married and he's already working a lot and he's a lot away from his wife, I don't want him to. I'm gonna drop a motion like that. I am still waiting for a date when we are going to experience the moment of mourning here in the Netherlands and I hope that I will get it in a moment. I am absolutely dissatisfied with the implementation of our motion to test care workers as a priority. I really think that that has been the case and I really want that to happen better. I'll end up with a compliment. I like the fact that at local level, the waste water from nursing homes is tested for the presence of corona, so that targeted testing can be carried out and people do not needlessly get such a stick stuck in their throats and noses. I thank the Minister for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u423	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. Mr Wilders has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u424	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, we have a minister without authority. Not a Minister of Justice, but a Minister without authority, because he remains seated while he has lost authority. He owes it to himself. It may be good for this minister, but it is bad for the Netherlands, and I regret that. Mr. Chairman. This means that we can throw overboard the one-and-a-half-meter measures. If the Minister does not abide by this and does not draw any conclusions from it, then it does not have to lead to sanctions or anything else for the rest of the Netherlands. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to withdraw the one-and-a-half-meter law (Temporary Law measures COVID-19), to immediately suspend the current enforcement under the emergency regulations and to work on the proper ventilation against contagion with corona, so that we get our old lives back,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-523]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u425	Nor can it be that this minister does not have to pay a fine while people who have done the same have paid a fine. So they have to get them back. Hence a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the importance of legal certainty weighs heavily and the legal inequality created must be brought to an end;]] [[points out that fines already paid should be refunded on the basis of the one-and-a-half meter measure, the outstanding fines should be dropped immediately and any notes made in the judicial documentation deleted,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-524]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u426	Finally, the salary of health care workers. Here, too, a terrible answer. The cabinet leaks everything to the press, but when we ask questions about it here, we do not get an answer. Those care workers deserve a structural wage increase. I hope that if we vote on this and vote on it again, no one will run away. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to provide care workers with a substantial structural salary increase,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-525]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u427	Madam President. I would like to thank the rulers for all the answers. We have heard many words about grace, mercy and forgiveness. That was an echo of the words I hear in a place where I sometimes travel on Sundays. Ever? Every week, before there's a misunderstanding. I want it in the Acts: every week! Mercy is never cheap. Mercy sees very clearly what goes wrong. The Minister of Justice has acknowledged this very seriously, and I thank him for that. On the other hand: grace sees sharp, but also gives a second chance. The Minister would like to take advantage of that. He wants to work on that, he wants to restore confidence, in the Chamber, but above all outside with enforcers. I wish him good luck with that. As far as the Christian Union Group is concerned, he has that confidence. I have a motion on testing people in vital professions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the lack of test capacity is currently increasing the waiting time for a test at the GMD-test streets and that this situation will not be resolved in the coming weeks;]] [[Whereas care and education are rapidly disrupted, partly because of the shortage of staff, when staff have to stay at home in case of covid-like complaints and cannot be tested directly for corona;]] [[Whereas priority should be given to testing staff in these vital sectors to ensure the continuity of education, care and safety of staff;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with the GGDs on the possibilities for priority testing of personnel in the vital sectors of care and education in the test streets, and to inform the Court of Justice of this within two weeks at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Jetten, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Dijkhoff and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-526]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u428	Mr. Chairman. Let us all follow the fine example of Minister Grapperhaus and just go back to normal. Shake hands, hug, kiss: it's all possible again. That's why the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the mandatory corona measures lead to major damage in Dutch society;]] [[calls on the Government to make the corona measures voluntary and to rely on its own responsibility,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many people and companies have been fined for violating the corona rules;]] [[calls on the Government to reverse these fines already imposed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-527]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-528]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u429	Mr President, thank you. It was a solid debate. We supported the motion of censure. This motion concerns the rejection of what has happened. That was not good, and the Minister admitted it. That's awesome, just like the Prime Minister adorns how he's gonna stand in front of his team. This minister can go through, but the responsibility that lies there is even greater than it already was. The same applies to the responsibility of the Prime Minister. I really expect him to take a step forward and play an even greater role in communication and in bringing society into play, because that is not a task that can only lie with the Minister of Justice. We are in a very strange phase, where we do not have all the time to wait for that confidence to be restored. I wish the Cabinet every success and strength in doing so, because it is more important than ever. Mr President, I have one more motion on how we can ensure that the released capacity, because America does not take over Philips' fans, is used as well as possible. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the United States has terminated its contract with Philips early, resulting in a surplus of nearly 30,000 ventilators;]] [[Whereas persistent shortages of ventilators in many developing countries have far-reaching consequences for patients with the COVID-19 virus;]] [[considers that this crisis calls for international solidarity;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with Philips in order to address any shortage of ventilation equipment in the Netherlands and to examine how these devices can be made available to developing countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-529]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u430	Mr. Chairman. Today, the Minister has gone through the dust and has explained in detail how he is going to work in the near future to restore his authority. He talks with police, boa's and mayors and he will especially show the Netherlands that not only a repressive approach but also a preventive approach is needed in the fight against corona. And that restoration of authority starts tonight, and he'll have to earn it back wider in society in the near future. I would like to thank the Cabinet for its comprehensive answer on tests and other measures. I welcome the fact that the cabinet is looking at how we can best monitor the balance between freedom and security and become as predictable as possible through the new phasing-out of measures. Thank you for that comprehensive answer. I would like to make two motions in support of that line of the cabinet. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research carried out by VUmc shows that recognition of complaints appropriate to COVID-19 is difficult for residents of nursing homes;]] [[noting that further details are being developed for nursing homes on how measures such as preventive use of personal protective equipment and random testing will be used;]] [[invites the Government to examine whether the measures in nursing homes also apply to parts of home care, disability care and ggz, and, if so, to deploy these measures as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas support in society is crucial for compliance with the corona rules;]] [[noting that the high level of fines and the possible consequences of a note on the judicial documentation cause concern for many people;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to set up a proportionate system of enforcement under the Corona Act, whereby fines are only the final element of enforcement, and to ensure that a corona fine cannot affect the statement of conduct,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten, Mr Segers, Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Dijkhoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-530]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten and Mr Groothuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-531]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u431	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the rulers. One more question: why is a general pardon for displaced asylum seekers enforceable and a general pardon for corona fines not? Then one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a general pardon scheme for asylum seekers was established in 2007;]] [[calls on the Government to make a general pardon arrangement for imposed corona fines until 1 September 2020 and to call for better compliance with the rules from now on,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-532]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u432	Don't push it all the time. Mr. Chairman. The minister didn't get a fine, but I did see penance today. He doesn't get a note in the judicial documentation system, but he gets a note in the public memory. I think it's gonna last longer. However, the newspapers will probably write that he was merciful about it. I was thinking of a cyclist; the minister likes to ride a bike. The necklace's gonna blow off, uphill. The platoon's on, the Tour's not waiting for anyone. And now you have to go back up the mountain solo to get to the platoon. It's gonna be tough, but it's possible. It can be done, and we wish the Minister every success. A motion of censure, that actually sounds like a kind of collective shared feeling. I myself rejected the course of events in my speech. The Minister himself rejected the course of events. The Prime Minister has rejected the course of events. That's clear enough for me. The support of such a motion will have its own dynamism and explanation, which then goes far beyond mere disapproval. We will therefore not support this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u433	Thank you. Finally, Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u434	Most people here in the Chamber think that the minister can stay on, because he has expressed regret and because he says he wants to work towards restoring confidence. I disagree. What he has done, I believe, shows that he is either completely incapable of acting in a situation that creates some private pressure towards something that he apparently sees as a danger of life... I really don't mean that personally. I really do give it to him, in all honesty. I know his wife, and I know part of her children. I don't mean it in a personal way, but really purely business. I just don't think it's explainable. If you really believe, I don't believe that Corona is very, very dangerous, then you don't, unless you're insane. Either he's insane, and then he has to leave, or he carries out policies he doesn't believe in. And he refuses to admit it. He refuses to say, "Let's stop with the bullshit rules." That's why I'm tabling a motion of censure. I think the Minister should quit. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[expresses confidence in the Minister of Justice and Security,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-533]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u435	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u436	Mr President, thank you. First of all, the question of why the date is not yet known. I checked it out. That day was originally scheduled for 24 September, but then a European Council was set up. The tricky thing with this European Council is that it cannot be replaced there. If I don't go, that chair will be empty. So we need to find a new date for it. It's being worked on incredibly hard. There was a new date, but there was another problem with that. We expect to be able to announce everything by mid-September at the latest. Then there's one motion I'm dealing with, the motion in part no. 523 on the withdrawal of the one-and-a-half-meter measure. We are opposed to this, because it is the most effective measure. Mr Wilders is deeply disappointed, I see. I still have to discourage this motion. Then I think Mr De Jonge is taking over now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u437	Yes. The Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u438	Mr President, thank you. I shall begin with the motion by Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver in respect of item No. 513. It calls on the government to give priority to teachers, care workers, police officers and other people with a vital profession. There's another motion that touches this motion. I'll get it right away. This is the motion in part No. Mr Segers, Mr Jetten, Mr Heerma, Mr Dijkhoff and Mr Van der Staaij. It invites the government to consult with the GGDs on the possibilities of giving priority to testing staff in the vital sectors of care and education. I would actually like to ask Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver for the motion on item No. 513 to hold. Let me have a conversation first. Because if you decide to do so, in the current situation, there could really be some negative effects on the speed of production in the test streets. So I really want to see if they can actually make it happen or if it has such an effect on the waiting times for the rest that it is not wise yet. In short, I really want to talk about whether the puzzle is logistical at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u439	I have inferred from Segers' cum suis motion that there is apparently room-wide support for this idea. I would simply like to put the motion to the vote and to inform the Minister that he can take into account the problem he envisages in its implementation, because he should never be held to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u440	But that assumes that we are going to do it anyway and that you have to look at how you deal with the problems that come out of it. But I'd really just like to have the conversation with those G.D.D.s first. So if we get the motion to part no. Doing 513 can also be the answer: I have spoken with the GGDs, but it is really unwise at this time to go to the requested one. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u441	If the Chamber were to adopt this motion, the Minister would feel supported in doing so. If he turns out that the GGD says this is counterproductive, the Minister can let us know by letter and then we will not keep him to the execution either. It's not about causing a problem, it's about solving an acute problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u442	Okay. That's the explanation I can get out of my way. Then I could leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 514: dissuade. Because there is a very brief summary of what is to be learned from Denmark. Our healthcare systems are so complicated to compare that we cannot just say: let us become Denmark. That's not how it works. Then the motion to part No. 518. It invites the government to consider how good ventilation can play a greater role in the corona strategy to be followed. I'm going to discourage it, because ventilation is already part of the strategy. For this, see also the manuals on the RIVM site. The motion in part No. 520 calls on the government to proceed with prevention as part of the policy. I'm gonna dissuade them. Prevention is already part of the corona policy. The motion in part No. 521 states that the amount of the proposed compensation for the mink breeding is unacceptable. I think that is what we have been discussing. So I'm going to dissuade this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u443	Thank you. I would like to look at the Minister of the United States of America on the motion in part No. 526. You mentioned it, but you didn't judge it. That's judgment chamber, the minister says. Then it'll look good in the Acts. I now give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u444	Thank you, Mr President. I have four motions that I'd like to see judged. The Marijnissen c.s. motion in piece No. 515 is about structural wage increases. By the way, the motion also deals with part No. Mr Wilders. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Wilders on his report. It is actually a much wider debate when it comes to appreciation for people in care. We discussed this at length in the previous debate and then indicated that a letter will be sent to the Chamber around Princess Day, which will deal with the elements covered by that appreciation. This means I'm deceiving these motions. The motion in part No. 529 asks to talk to Philips. In any case, I would like to say that we have no shortage of ventilators in the Netherlands. This motion falls not so much within the care domain but within the development cooperation domain. That is why I ask the authors to hold this motion because then I can ask the foreign trade colleague for an appreciation and request that the Chamber receive this appreciation before the vote. I'm afraid to call her now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u445	That's very collegial. I don't think I need to hold him if that appreciation can be there for the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u446	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u447	Then I come to the motion on part No. 530, which calls for an investigation into the measures at nursing homes. This was exchanged in the debate and Mrs Marijnissen also asked for it. It's an opportunity. We're gonna see if we can do this and I'm gonna give this motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u448	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u449	Mr. Chairman. On the motion in part No. Of course we are not going to 512. The motion in part No. 516 I leave judgment room. I promised the Chamber that I would return to this subject in a letter. The Azarkan motion in part No. 517 I must advise against, because there can be no retroactive effect. The motion in part No. 519 deals with the remission of fines. I advise against this motion and have explained it earlier in the debate. The motion by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Klaver in part No. 522 is about whether we can apply a cautious penalty policy with regard to the one and a half meter scheme and also examine to what extent the role of criminal law can be further reduced in favour of urgent opinions and directives. If I can read the motion in such a way that I can examine to what extent the role of criminal law can be partially transferred to administrative law, I can leave her judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u450	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u451	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 524 on the refund of fines. I'd advise against it. I would also advise against the motion on the voluntary establishment of corona measures with reference to what I have already said in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u452	Can you give me the numbers, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u453	Oh, excuse me. That's the motion in part No. 527. The motion in part No. I would also advise against 528 members of Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet on the reversal of fines. The motion in part No. 531 of Mr Jetten and Mr Groothuizen asked for a proportionate system of enforcement whereby fines were only a final element of enforcement and to ensure that a corona fine could not affect the statement of conduct. In view of the debate we have had on this subject, I shall leave it to the Chamber to decide. The motion in part No. Mr Krol's 532 report on the general pardon arrangement is not a good idea. The judgment on the motion in part No. 533 of Mr Baudet and Mr Van Haga are not mine. Mr. Chairman. Finally, after I have referred the question on the general pardon for asylum seekers to my colleague, the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, I would like to say the following. I have just appreciated substantive motions. I would like to address a few more words to the Chamber. I listened very carefully to the Chamber tonight. I share with the Chamber that my blazon has suffered a dent. Maybe that did not go as far as the shared disapproval that Mr Dijkhoff was talking about, but I myself raised it in the same way, and I share that. I tried to inform the Chamber of Honor and Conscience last Thursday about my wedding day. I played the movie again. It went wrong at my wedding with the corona measures, and that really happened at several times and in different ways. I would also like to say the following. I do not go home regardless of the outcome of the votes with: so, we have had that. Apart from that, Mr President, I am going to do everything in my power to restore the confidence of you and of society, or to regain it wherever it is necessary, precisely in order to contribute to the control of the life-threatening corona virus. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u454	Thank you. That is what brought us to the end of this debate. There's been some 22 motions filed together. Two of them are about disapproval and withdrawal of trust. It is customary to vote on this right away. I shall therefore first look at the Chamber to see if it agrees that we have two motions, one by Mr Asscher and the other by Mr Asscher. and one by Mr Baudet, may vote. Yeah? Everyone agrees. Then I'll suspend the meeting for one minute, unless you need a longer suspension. That is not the case. Then I'll suspend for one minute to get our housekeeping book in order.
